                           Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                      Report No: 29362

               IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                           (CPL-37890)

                              ON A

                             LOAN

                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$140.00 MILLION

                             TO THE

                         STATE OF CEARÁ

                            FOR THE

CEARÁ URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                           May 18, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective May 18, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = BRL
                                    BRL3.13 = US$ 1.00
                                    US$ 1.00 = BRL3.13

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 to December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC       Aprender, Brincar, Crescer - Learn, Play, Grow Program
ANA       Agencia Nacional de Agua, National Water Agency
CAGECE    Companhia de Água e Esgoto do Ceará, State Water and Sanitation Company of Ceará
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
COGERH    Companhia de Gestão de Recursos Hídricos, Water Resources Management Company
COHAB    Companhia de Habitação do Ceará, State of Ceará Housing Company
PROAGUA  Projeto de Água, Water Project
PROGERIRH Projeto de Gestão de Recursos Hídricos, Water Resources Management (WRM) Project
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SDLR      Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Local e Regional, Secretariat of Local and Regional
          Development
SIGERH    Sistema Integrado de Gestão de Recursos Hídricos, Integrated WRM System
WRM       Water Resources Management
WS&S      Water Supply and Sanitation

                              Vice President:    David De Ferranti
                            Country Director     Vinod Thomas
                             Sector Manager      John Henry Stein
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Dean Cira

                                           BRAZIL
             Ceará Urban Development & Water Resources Managemet Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39

Project ID: P006436                                                  Project Name: Ceara Urban Development & Water
                                                                     Resource
Team Leader: Dean A. Cira                                            TL Unit: LCSFU
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Ceara Urban Development & Water Resource                 L/C/TF Number: CPL-37890
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (57%); General water, sanitation and flood protection
                            sector (26%); Sub-national government administration (9%);
                            Sewerage (7%); Vocational training (1%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Municipal finance (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Pollution
                            management and environmental health (P); Water resource
                            management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/06/1993                                     Effective: 03/19/1995                05/15/1995
     Appraisal: 11/15/1993                                          MTR: 09/19/1997                 09/19/1997
      Approval: 09/06/1994                                      Closing: 03/31/2000                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          STATE OF CEARÁ          /Secretaria de Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Javed Burki
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:             Dean Cira                                      Moazzam Mekan
ICR Primary Author:             Dean A. Cira


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overriding objective of the Ceará Urban Development and Water Resources Management Project was
to Strengthen local governments and water resources management in the State.

The specific project objectives were to: (a) build local government financial management and institutional
capacity and strengthen the State's urban development and water resources management agencies; (b)
improve living conditions in selected poor urban neighborhoods through infrastructure investments; (c)
increase the efficiency of water use through water basin planning and management; and (d) provide
reliable, economic and safe water supply to communities in critical need through investments in water
storage, conveyance and distribution infrastructure.

The project was designed within the guiding framework of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of June
29, 1993, which set forth a priority of supporting policies and investments that would encourage
sustainable economic growth and social development in the context of macroeconomic stability. That
strategy stressed the need for greater efficiency in resource allocation, improved efficiency of the public
sector, a need to provide greater incentives for private sector development, better environmental
management and improved targeting of services to the poor. Within that context, the project objectives
were consistent with the CAS as the project was designed to promote efficiency in the bulk water sector,
improve the allocation of water resources and promote better environmental management of that scarce
resource, while using it as a vehicle for greater economic development in the State. At the same time, the
urban development component stressed the targeting of urban services to the poor and greater efficiency of
the public sector.

The project objectives also responded directly to the priorities of the State. In the urban sector, the State
priority was to promote a policy of decentralization of administrative functions and directing investment to
priority regions for economic development. This also supported the Bank's own objectives in Brazil to
promote the strengthening of municipal governments, in support of the 1988 Constitution that devolved
greater responsibilities to municipalities, giving them back much responsibility for infrastructure and
service provision. The water resources management component supported the State's 1992 water law (No.
11.996) which recognized: (i) that water resources management needs to be integrated with other sector
objectives; (ii) that water is an economic resource; and (iii) that policies pertaining to water resources
management should involve consultations with all relevant stakeholders.

While project objectives were, overall, appropriate and responding to the priorities of the Bank, the Federal
Government and the State of Ceará, the risks to achieving the objectives were high. Despite the good track
record of the State, the project was still large and complex, especially when considering the implementation
capacity of the State, which while stronger than many, was still a relatively weak and poor Northeastern
State. As will be addressed later, the complexity was in part responsible for the long implementation
period, and the need to reformulate the project after it was approved by the Board. Notwithstanding the
underestimation of risk, the project objectives can be considered satisfactory.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project established changes in the mix of components in 1997. However, these changes did not result
in a change in project objectives, but rather were aimed at better achieving the original objectives. The
component changes are discussed in the section on Revised Components.

3.3 Original Components:




                                                      - 2 -

The Project was designed to originally include four macro-components, each with specific sub-components.

Part A. The Institutional Development Component (US$23.8 million). This component supported the
provision of consultant services for technical assistance, training and studies as well as information
technology. It included two subcomponents:

        Part A1 (US$15.4 million). Support to local governments (including select state agencies and
        municipalities) for administrative and financial strengthening, community development and project
        management and supervision.

        Part A2 (US$8.4 million). Implementation of the State's water resources management (WRM)
        policy, including the establishment of river basin planning and real-time management in four
        basins, administrative strengthening and training for the State WRM company (COGERH) and a
        bulk water tariff study.

Part B.   The Urban Infrastructure Component (US$94.9 million).              The component supported two
sub-components:

        Part B1. (US$62.6 million). Urban upgrading as part of the existing Habitar program, to provide
        low-income families in 140-150 micro areas (neighborhoods) in small and medium cities, with
        basic services such as low-cost sanitation, drainage, street paving and lighting, community
        facilities and self-help housing.

        Part B2 (US$32.3 million).           Installation, by the State water company (CAGECE), of
        approximately 120,000 water meters and other water conservation measures in municipalities
        outside the Metropolitan Region of Fortaleza.

Part C. The Water Resources Management (WRM) Infrastructure Component (US$102.1 million). The
component included three distinct sub-components:

        Part C1 (US$92.9 million). Construction of 25-30 earthen dams to create medium-sized water
        storage reservoirs and conveyance infrastructure to bring water to unserved localities.

        Part C2 (US$6.5 million). Construction of about 10 water conveyance systems from existing
        reservoirs.

        Part C3 (US$2.7 million). Rehabilitation works for existing reservoirs to optimize their use.

Part D. The Two Pilot Schemes (US$3.5 million). This included two sub-components:

        Part D1 (US$2.0 million). Support to the State's Aprender, Brincar, Crescer (ABC) program
        providing vocational education for children and young adults of low-income families.

        Part D2 (US$1.5 million). Support to decentralized water management and establishment of water
        markets in the Araras Norte agricultural district, to build experience in the trading of water rights.

The components were well conceived and designed, and consistent with the stated objectives of the project.
They reflected the state of the art at the time of preparation, taking into account lessons learned specific to
each of the sectors, and in project design more generally. The project included best practices from over 17


                                                       - 3 -

loans in the urban sector in Brazil going back to 1978, an additional 16 loans in the water supply and
sanitation sector going back to 1971 and another 10 loans in water resources management building on two
decades of experience. More specifically, the loan incorporated lessons learned from a generation of
municipal development projects (Santa Catarina Ln. 2623, Paraná Ln.3100, and Rio Grande do Sul Ln.
3129). The project also absorbed lessons from pollution control and river basin management projects in
São Paulo (Ln. 3505), Curitiba (Ln. 3504), Belo Horizonte (Ln. 3445) and Minas Gerais (Ln. 3639).
Among the lesson learned, included in the project were:

    ·   The need to strengthen municipal resource mobilization and access to financing;
    ·   Increase the involvement of states and localities in urban planning processes;
    ·   Take an integrated and comprehensive approach to environmental management and pollution
    control;
    ·   Focus on low-cost technologies in WS&S provision;
    ·   Approach institutional development in a systematic and structured way using a change
    management approach; and
    ·   Address the details of project implementation early in the preparation process.

While these lessons were mostly assimilated, the institutional design of project led to delays in execution
early on. Despite that institutional risks were identified at the time of project preparation, there was not
adequate follow-up in mitigating these risks, and probably inadequate treatment of these risks at the time of
preparation. The SAR indicates that, "... project coordination may prove the be inadequate ... these risk
are mitigated by agreement to review institutional arrangements after a year and a half." Both the urban
and WRM component lagged, for at least three years, due to weak institutional capacity and, in the case of
the WRM a newly created Water Resources Secretariat. The complexity of the project, and the weak
capacity of a relatively poor state, should have led to stronger measures to mitigate these risks at the time
of preparation.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were several revisions to the project components, but none that altered the project objectives. These
were generally changes that allowed for project refinements and allowed the project to better meet its
overall project objectives. The changes are indicated below.

WRM Component
1997: Component C4. Transposition of the Jaguaribe and Icapuí Basins (project and civil works).

Urban Component
2001: Component B3. Urban Structural Works.
       Component B4. Fortaleza Project.

The C4 component was added to serve as an input into the then pilot PROGERIRH project, which was in
negotiations at the time. It was expected that this could serve as a model for PROGERIRH. It was
subsequently determined that the project would not serve as an appropriate model and therefore the
transposition works were never completed.

The B3 Component was added to: (i) take advantage of additional US$ resources following the devaluation
of the Real; and (ii) serve as a vehicle to finance works that were identified in the 44 urban development
and strategic plans that were financed under the institutional development component. It subsequently
served as the basis for the Cidades do Ceará proposal that the State wishes to finance in promotion of



                                                    - 4 -

regional development, and is considered a successful component.

The B4 component was not adequately reviewed and with the benefit of hindsight should not have been
agreed to by the Bank. First, the component focused on the metropolitan area of Fortaleza, which was
contrary to the objectives of a project designed to target development explicitly outside of the metro region.
In addition, the nature of the works were not wholly consistent with the project objectives. In the end, the
component was only partially completed.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry can be considered Satisfactory, albeit with some deficiencies. The level of analysis during
project preparation was highly satisfactory in both the WRM and urban development components. The
objectives, as has been indicated earlier, were clear and were consistent with both the CAS priorities and
the development priorities of the State of Ceará. Local buy-in of the objectives and components, an
ingredient considered essential for success, was high, with the project promoting explicit state policies. The
project also promoted Bank sector priorities in both WRM and in urban development. In the latter case,
the project set to operationalize the Banks guiding urban policy document for Brazil, Brazil, The
Challenges of Municipal Sector Development in the 1990's and to advance the objectives of
decentralization reforms set-forth in the 1988 Constitution. With respect to the WRM component, it
set-out to operationalize recommendations of the 1993 Bank's Water Resources Management policy
document, that suggested the need for comprehensive, integrated analysis of water resources, economic
pricing of water resources, decentralization of service provision, stakeholder participation and
environmental protection.

The project, as acknowledged in the SAR, was ambitious and complex. It triggered a number of Bank
safeguard policies including Environmental Assessment, Natural Habitats, Safety of Dams and Involuntary
Resettlement. These were adequately addressed during the project preparation.

What was not fully addressed were the institutional risks. While recognizing the complexity of the project,
there were few a priori measures taken, prior to project effectiveness, to strengthen the implementation
capacity of the executing agency. The design seemed to violate one of the principles of good project design
that was identified in the SAR: "avoiding overly ambitious projects that involve multiple objectives and/or
excessive number of institutions." However, the project was indeed complex and implementation and
institutional capacity weak. There were approximately eight executing agencies in the appraised project
design. There was little development objective link between the WRM and urban development components.
It was not until the two components were effectively de-linked in 1997, that the project began to move
forward, essentially being executed as separate projects. Stronger measures could have been taken to
ensure more effective implementation and stronger institutional capacity during the preparation phase. The
risks were recognized, but left to the implementation period to address. Still, this criticism is made with the
benefit of hindsight, and all other aspects of the project preparation were considered to be of high quality.
There was no QAG rating for Quality of Entry at this project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the objectives and outcomes can be considered satisfactory for the project overall.
Looking specifically at the WRM component, the physical output goals were nearly met 100%, taking into
account modifications in the original planned outputs. Moreover, the construction of the various physical
outputs incorporated the principles of security of dams, environmental and social sustainability and
stakeholder participation. There were no fundamental problems following Bank safeguard policies in the



                                                     - 5 -

execution of these projects, with the State actually internalizing these practices within its WRM operations.


More importantly, however, than the physical outputs were the impacts of the institutional and physical
components. The project led to the consolidation and strengthening of the COGERH, the state agency
responsible for the management of bulk water, an agency only recently created at the time of the project
preparation that became in many ways a national model. In addition, the project helped to create a broad
stakeholder approach to water resources management through the formulation of water basin committees.
WRM policies such as these heavily influenced the institutionalization and policy development at the
National Water Agency (ANA). These outcomes lead to the high likelihood of sustainability. Similarly,
the impacts of the physical investments were also high, benefiting 40 localities and over 400,000 people
with a secure supply of water, increased opportunities for economic development (e.g. securing water for
the development of the Pecem Industrial Port Complex) and laying the groundwork for the follow-on
project PROGERIRH, also financed by the Bank.

The urban component outcomes were also positive with high potential for sustainability. The actions of the
urban component solidified the state policy of strengthening the interior regions of the state, and promoting
decentralization. While the project did not succeed in creating a secondary urban network (an ambitious
goal that goes beyond the time horizon of the project), it did succeed in further consolidating the state's
objective of strengthening secondary urban regions, most notably by narrowing the focus of the component
to 44 strategic municipalities, and through the preparation of regional development plans for urban/rural
regions with growth potential. This effort has laid the groundwork for the state's current Cidades do
Ceará strategy, which plans to build on the work of the urban component, by continuing to strengthen
municipalities and regions that have economic growth potential ­ a refinement of the PROURB approach.
This suggests a likelihood of sustainability and that the original project objectives remain relevant today ­
over ten years later.

A limitation of the urban component was its apparent emphasis on physical investment and physical
planning at expense of the municipal institutional development component While the project included a
large component of institutional development, mostly at the municipal level, the impacts from that
component, while significant, have yet to be consolidated. The transfer of the project to the Secretariat of
Infrastructure during the prime implementation years, ensured that a greater emphasis would remain on the
physical rather than the institutional aspects of the project. The impacts of the municipal institutional
development component would have been greater if technical capacity at the state level had been stronger,
and therefore would have benefited from an explicit program of state institutional development and
technical assistance in municipal institutional development. Likewise, the program lacked a strategy of
follow-up at the municipal level to consolidate and ensure the sustainability of the gains made at the that
level in institutional development. That notwithstanding, the creation of the Secretariat of Local and
Regional Development (SDLR), and the transfer of the program to that unit in the last year of execution, is
a positive change as this Secretariat, by design, takes a more holistic view of regional and local
development. It is this Secretariat that will be responsible for the Cidade do Ceará project.

It is also worth mentioning that the State developed an important and replicable model for delivering
low-cost, housing and urban upgrading for low-income families in small cities in the interior.           The
"micro-areas" component demonstrates that housing can be provided, through a partnership with local
government, the state and community, at a very low cost. In addition, the project demonstrated benefits of
sweat-equity as a tool for building social capital and strengthening communities, and also demonstrated the
benefits of including social programs, such as day care centers, in project design. The program of self-help
housing within a program of matching grants/partnership could serve as a useful model for other states and


                                                     - 6 -

even the Federal Government.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Urban Component

Institutional Development (A1): This component is rated Satisfactory. The state's decision to focus the
efforts on 44 municipalities was a positive decision, that resulted in a program that targeted those
municipalities with the most to gain and the greatest likelihood of success. In all the results showed some
significant improvements, albeit uneven. These included, inter alia:        increase in the percentage of
municipalities with human resources plans from 40% to 53% in the target group; number of municipalities
with asset management programs increased from 3 to 21; the number of municipalities with protocol
systems functioning in a satisfactory manner increased from 1 to 17; and the number of municipalities with
complete tax administration systems and tax codes in place increased from 3 to 36. Most significantly,
own-source revenues increased in the targeted municipalities by 450% from 1994 to 2001, compared with
342% for the control group. The capacity of the state team to execute this component was relatively weak,
even according to their own evaluations. A stronger component of capacity building at the state level,
specifically for this component, would likely have led to even better results, and a greater likelihood of
sustainability of this component.

This component also financed the preparation of 46 municipal urban development plans, using a more
modern approach to comprehensive planning, by including specific action plans for achieving articulated
development goals. The planning processes were done using a participatory methodology, that is not
common in Brazil. None of these municipalities had urban development master plans prior to the project, a
legal requirement for municipalities with populations greater than 40,000. The plans are the basis for a
future regional development project, and laid the ground for the financing of urban structural works in
about 15 municipalities. This component also included the financing, again using a participatory strategy,
for regional development plans that are the basis for the Cidades do Ceará project, and will serve as a
launching pad to improve inter-municipal cooperation in a number of local services sectors.

Urban Infrastructure - Micro Areas (B1): This component is rated Highly Satisfactory. Eighty-nine
neighborhoods were upgraded or created under the program, to the benefit of 25,300 families (more than
100,000 people), and included the upgrading of existing neighborhoods and the creation of new
neighborhoods using an intergovernmental/community partnership of self-help housing, whereby the state
financed infrastructure and housing materials, the municipality furnished the land and the beneficiaries
constructed their own housing, with technical assistance. Among the benefits were: improved circulation
to allow for access to services such as solid waste collection and emergency services; the elimination of
risks due to flooding and other natural occurrences; an increase in the percentage of families with
bathrooms from 5% to 95%; increase in the number of houses with in-house water connections from 18%
to 90%; increase in the number of household sewerage connections from 7% to 76%; increase in access to
energy from 67% to 97% and 100% of neighborhoods were served by day care services. As important, the
level of satisfaction of the beneficiaries was high, with 10% reporting increased economic opportunities as
a result of their new living conditions; 50% reporting improvements in health conditions; and 70%
reporting a reduction in health problems related to improvements in sanitation.            The creation of
neighborhood associations to facilitate the self-help housing resulted in, according to focus groups, an
improved ability of the community to solve and find solutions to communal problems. Importantly, these
investments and results were achieved with a per-family investment of US$2,100, including project, works,
land and social mobilization.

Urban Infrastructure - Water Meters (B2): This component is rated Highly Satisfactory. It included the



                                                     - 7 -

installation of nearly 176,000 household water meters in cities in the interior of the state. It was executed
by the CAGECE, the State Water Company. The incidence of water loses in the interior of the state was
44.3% in 1994, and was reduced to 26.7% by 2003. With a goal of increasing metered connections from
18.7% in the interior to 70%, that goal was exceeded with 80.5% metered coverage by 2003. While these
improvements cannot be attributed 100% to the component, it did play a significant role in helping the
water company achieve these goals.

Urban Infrastructure - Urban Structural Works (B3): This component is rated Satisfactory, although
there is scant quantitative information on which to evaluate the component. This component was added in
2001 for two reasons: (i) it was seen as necessary to operationalize the urban master plans and make them
usable documents by implementing some of their recommendations; and (ii) there was an excess of funds
for infrastructure projects following a devaluation of the Brazilian Real. A major deficiency in the
component is that, when approved by the Bank, it was done so without including a process of a priori and
ex post evaluations of the costs and benefits and technical appropriateness of the projects. Therefore a
technical evaluation of the component is not possible. However, qualitative evaluations suggest that at
least some of the selected works have had a positive impact on economic, social, cultural/historic
preservation and environmental conditions in the municipalities where they were implemented. A total of 15
large, municipal infrastructure works were executed. Among the reportedly most successful were Sobral,
and Canoa Quebrada. It is important to note that this component was affected by changes brought on by
the Federal Fiscal Responsibility Law, prohibiting lending from one level of government to another. As a
result, the execution lagged for a period pending decisions by the Bank and the Borrower on how to
proceed with this component. In the end, the decision was made to convert this component from a lending
program to a matching grant program. This was an appropriate compromise in the face of the changes in
the law governing inter-governmental lending.

Urban Infrastructure - Fortaleza Project (B4): This component is rated as Unsatisfactory. This
component had the objective of resettling low-income families living along the margins of the
Maranguapinho River in Metropolitan Fortaleza. The project is complex and large, including construction
of a park and motorway along the river, and the component was to finance only a slice of the total project.
It was revised twice, reducing the loan financing from US$1.0 million to US$500. While it was successful
in resettling a number of families, and improving their living conditions, the actions are not considered
sustainable as the areas cleared from resettlement are already being re-occupied due to a lack of financing
to complete the work. The component was not fully compatible with the project objectives, which intended
to focus development in areas outside of the metropolitan region.

Pilot Project - ABC Street Children Centers (D1): This component is rated Satisfactory. At least
12,000 juveniles and young adults have benefitted from the program which provides opportunities for youth
at risk using art, sport and culture as a means to reinforce positive behaviors and provide incentives for
kids to stay in school and better prepare them for life and work. The project financed the construction and
start-up of 26 Aprender, Brincar e Crescer (ABC) centers in 26 of the 44 targeted municipalities. An
evaluation of the program credits it with improving attendance and performance in school among program
beneficiaries, as well as improved employment prospects upon completion of the vocational training
program.

Water Resources Management Component

Institutional Development (A2): This component is rated Highly Satisfactory. The main thrust of the
component was strengthen State institutions in management of water resources and to assist the State in the
development of its WRM policies. To that end, the impact was substantial, making COGERH a model for


                                                     - 8 -

water resources management. A number of studies and actions were financed under this component,
including building the capacity of bulk water users, creating water basin committees that play a strong role
in river basin management and instituting a dam safety panel. The component also financed a number of
studies that allowed the state to plan for bulk water supply and demand, and develop its water resources
management information systems. The state has internalized the work done under this project, and the
policies and programs developed under this component are being further implemented under the
PROGERIRH and PROAGUA projects, both financed by the Bank.

The Water Resources Management (WRM) Infrastructure Component - Construction of Earthen
Dams (C1): This component is rated Satisfactory. A total of 23 possible dam projects were evaluated
using technical and environmental criteria developed during preparation. Of these 23 dams, 22 were found
feasible and 16 were constructed (the six other left for construction under PROGERIRH). Despite the
reduction by 50% in the number of dams, total storage capacity was only 13% less than projected in the
SAR, due to the construction of larger than expected dams. A total of nearly 700,000 people were
benefited by the component, in a total of 20 municipalities.

The Water Resources Management (WRM) Infrastructure Component - Water Conveyance Systems
(C2): This component is rated Satisfactory. A total of 335 kilometers of water conveyance systems were
constructed under the component, slightly less than the 352 km projected. The capacity of these systems
was about 65% of that originally projected. The benefitted population is the same 700,000 benefitted
under the dam construction component.

The Water Resources Management (WRM) Infrastructure Component - Dam Reconstruction (C3):
The component is rated Satisfactory. It was a small component, but one that was successfully implemented
with 28 dams being rehabilitated. While this is short of the 80 projected in the SAR, feasibility studies
indicated the remainder were not economically viable rehabilitation projects.

The Water Resources Management (WRM) Infrastructure Component - Transposition of the
Jaguaribe and Icapuí Basins (project and civil works) (C4): This component is rated Satisfactory. The
component was added in 1997 with the intent to prepare a project that could serve as a model for the then
pilot project of PROGERIRH. It included US$10.0 million for construction of the pilot. After completing
the study, however, it was determined that it would not serve as model for the new project, and the
construction phase was therefore dropped.         It is rated satisfactory, however, since the study was
successfully completed and served the purpose of determining the feasibility of the pilot operation.

Water Markets Component (D2): This component is rated Unsatisfactory. The complexity, including
legal limitations, made this component difficult to implement. It was decided, at the mid-term review, to
leave much of the implementation of this component to PROGERIRH, leaving US$200,000 in the
component. However, no activities were financed under it.

It is best to look at the impact of the Water Resources Management component and its sub-components in
an aggregated manner. On the physical side, significant quality of life, including economic opportunities in
the agricultural sector, were brought to a population of 700,000 people, mostly in the poorer interior of the
State. In addition, the construction of the principal reservoir for the Pecem Industrial Port Complex created
numerous economic opportunities in the industrial sector, an explicit economic development strategy of the
State.   Despite the impacts of the physical component, the real success of the WRM management
component is institutional. Among the numerous and important institutional changes brought by the
project, a few key ones are worth highlighting: (i) the development and implementation of the Water
Resources Management System (SIGERH); (ii) the participation of stakeholders in defining and managing


                                                      - 9 -

bulk water uses and the formation of water basin committees; (iii) the definitive institutionalization of a
Water Resources Policy and the strengthening of the Water Resources Company (COGERH); (iv) the
internalization of the benefits brought about the dam safety panel, both for state agencies and technical
consultants; (v) a change in a culture that now values responsible water resources management as much as
physical investments; (vi) the institutionalization of bulk water charges; (vii) the sensitization of
stakeholders to the importance of conservation of scarce water resources.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
For the investments in the urban infrastructure component (micro areas), the SAR did not include an
ex-ante economic analysis of the costs and benefits, but evaluated a sample of similar projects already
completed, and established a per-household investment threshold that would yield positive benefits. The
established threshold of US$2,500 of investments costs, was obtained. Actual per-household investment
for the micro area (including land, infrastructure, housing, engineering, social mobilization and
supervision) was US$2,100. The Urban Structural Works component was added after project appraisal so
there is no ex-ante economic evaluation for this component. In addition, no criteria were established for
conducting economic evaluations of investments under this sub-component, and so no ex-post economic
evaluation was conducted.

The internal economic rate of return for the water resources infrastructure projects was estimated to be
17% in the SAR. An ex-post evaluation utilizing the same methodology found the actual rate of return to
be 13.2%. While below the estimated internal economic rate of return, it was above the minimum threshold
of 12%. The lower rate is due to much higher project costs than projected in the SAR, resulting from higher
land costs than expected.

The SAR did not consider the economic rates of return for the institutional development components,
suggesting the benefits would be too difficult to quantify.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As has been pointed out in other sections of this report, the institutional impacts are High. This is
particularly the case for the WRM component, which has resulted in one of the strongest state water
resources management programs in the country, and which has been used by ANA as a benchmark for
setting policies. Institutional development gains are being further consolidated under the PROGERIRH and
PROAGUA projects. The institutional development impact of the urban development component is less
impressive, but there have been impressive institutional changes in select municipalities, especially the
budget and tax administration, planning and human resources management. The state has recognized the
value of promoting municipal capacity building as an integral part of its decentralization and
regionalization strategies, and has included municipal development programs in its multi-year planning
program. The creation of the Secretariat of Local and Regional Development further solidifies the state's
commitment to local development and decentralization.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Keeping in mind that the government in this case is the government of the State of Ceará, the following
factors are considered to have impacted the implementation of the project, and were outside of the
government's control.




                                                     - 10 -

Fiscal Issues: The Macro Economic Stabilization Plan and the Real Plan, instituted by the government in
1994, obligated that the project output goals be adjusted to respond to a new exchange rate. These changes
were not implemented until 1997. The 1998/99 IMF agreement with Brazil, that necessitated a higher
primary surplus, impacted the disbursements of all international loans, including PROURB, provoking a
deceleration in the implementation rhythm of the project during that period. In addition, the passage of the
Fiscal Responsibility Law, which included provisions prohibiting lending between different levels of
government, made it impossible to continue the model of state loans to municipal governments, the modus
operandi of the urban component. The situation was complicated by the long-period of time it took the
Bank to agree on an alternative solution for the continued financing of municipal infrastructure projects
following these changes.

Election Cycles: The urban component implementation was particularly impacted by election cycles,
given that works were executed by municipal governments, through a transfer of funds from the State to the
municipalities. When new local administrations come into power in Brazil, the tradition is to replace not
only secretarial level staff, but often technical level staff as well. This hindered the flow of works projects,
and in particular, the flow of institutional development assistance, as new teams had to be brought up to
speed, and led to buy-into the institutional development program, which may have begun under the
predecessors term in office. In addition, Brazilian election law prohibits contracting during certain periods
in the run-up to elections. This often led to the stalling of contracting processes already underway. And,
since the state and municipal elections are on different cycles, the problems would repeat every two years.

Climatic: During the 2000/01 period of drought, emergency conditions necessitated that state budget
resources be re-allocated to attend to the emergency situation. This resulted in a temporary lack of
counterpart funds, and a slow-down in project execution, in particular for the WRM component.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Institutional Complexity: Implementation was often hindered as a result of the institutional complexity of
the project, the involvement of myriad state entities in various phases of the project and an overall lack of
understanding of the project objectives on the part of some of these entities and an overall lack of
coordination between the executing agency and the secondary actors. Some examples of this include: (i) a
lack of understanding of Bank procurement guidelines, in particular "shopping", by entities charged with
internal controls for the State, causing delays in the use of this modality; (ii) a lack of state environmental
agency regarding environmental evaluation guidelines for the project; (iii) the occasional transfer of project
coordination responsibilities from one Secretariat to another, resulting in slow-downs and even changing
priorities (eg. a resulting lack of understanding of importance of institutional development in urban
component); (iv) the general dispersion of responsibilities to entities not fully involved in project execution
(eg. COHAB supervision of the micro areas component in the early years of the project); and (v) a
cumbersome and bureaucratic process of review of all contracts and amendments by the State's Financial
Programming and Public Credit Program, that often led to delays in contracting and contract extension
processes.

Financial: Regular difficulties in making counterpart resources available by the Secretary of Finance and
Planning, to the executing agencies, particularly during the first quarter of the year, and a cutting of
resources during the last quarter of the year (for budget adjustments), made budget planning difficult for
the executing agencies. In addition, there was a problem in making funds available for the acquisition of
land in association with resettlement, in particular for the WRM component, that led to delays in works
construction.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                      - 11 -

Lack of Coordinating Capacity: Looking specifically at the WRM component, there was a general lack
of capacity of the executing agency to coordinate various programs of a similar nature to PROURB, which
competed for priority.     These included the program PROGERIRH and PROAGUA.                      Likewise, the
executing agency for the urban component lacked an overall capacity to adequately coordinate and
interface with other State entities which had a role to play in the project, which is at least partly responsible
for the problems identified above, regarding institutional complexity. That is to say that this was a two
way street. While there may have been a lack of understanding of the project by those entities not directly
executing the project, the executing agencies in turn lacked the capacity to work effectively with these
secondary State entities.

Lack of Technical Capacity: As regards the urban component, there was lack of technical capacity, in
particular with regard to the institutional development component. The lack of technical capacity led to a
number of difficulties, including: (i) problems in articulating the benefits of the institutional development
component to municipal leaders; (ii) difficulty in attracting quality consultants to assist in the execution of
the institutional development component. While the State suggests there was a lack of well qualified
consultants in the area of institutional development, particularly in the early years of the project, Bank
experience with similar projects in Brazil suggests this is not the case. Rather, the difficulty in attracting
quality consultants in this area was more likely due to a resistance on the part of the State and executing
agency to adequately fund the institutional development activities (and thereby attract higher quality
consultants) and its preference to attract local (Ceará) consultants whenever possible.

Weak Municipal Capacity: The urban infrastructure components were executed and contracted at the
municipal level. There was a lack of capacity on the part of municipalities to adequately supervise the
works and to understand Bank contracting procedures. In addition, municipalities often lacked the capacity
to quickly acquire, through eminent domain, land required for infrastructure or resettlement. This suggests
that a stronger emphasis on strengthening municipal capacity in these areas, should have been included in
the project. Providing special workshops on construction supervision and Bank procurement guidelines
specifically for municipalities could have been included in the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Of the original loan amount, US$3.0 million was cancelled in March 2003. Despite significant delays in
project execution the outcomes indicate that the project was executed in close accordance with the original
components and revised allocations, and that the actual disbursements show only minor variations to the
allocated amounts in each disbursement category. As of May 11, 2004, the undisbursed amount of the loan
was US$824,593.55, or a total revised loan amount of US$137,000,000.                Among the major issues
impacting project costs and financing were: the devaluation of the Real that allowed for the inclusion of a
new component, the Urban Structural Works Component; and the agreement by the Bank to increase its
cost share of the works components to 80% during the last year of the project due to severe cash-flow
problems on the part of the Borrower.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely. With regard to the WRM component it has already been discussed that the
institutional impacts regarding water resources management and water resources policy were substantial.
Among the aspects that promote sustainability are: (i) the institutionalization of a participatory approach
to WRM and continued functioning and strengthening of water basin committees; (ii) a strong and
developed bulk water resources company - COGERH; (iii) The solid adoption of a policy, since 1996, of
charging for bulk water, including to CAGECE, the State water supply and sanitation company; (iv) a



                                                     - 12 -

clear definition of operation and maintenance responsibilities for infrastructure (CAGECE responsible for
conveyance systems and COGERH responsible for reservoirs); (v) the completion of bulk water tariff
studies under PROGERIRH; (vi) the internalization of good practices regarding the construction of dams
and management of water resources; and (vii) the consolidation of the SIGERH, water resources
management system under the PROGERIRH and PROAGUA projects.

The sustainability of the urban component is rated as likely, with an important caveat. From a policy
perspective the State has fully internalized the promotion of decentralization using the strengthening of
municipal management and governance to lead that effort. Further, the State has adopted an approach that
promotes regional development in the interior focusing on strengthening key local governments and creating
opportunities for stakeholder participation in regional policy and economic development through the
creation of regional development councils. However, a key element of the urban development component -
the on-lending of funds for infrastructure development - has not been institutionalized. Following the
prohibitions on inter-governmental lending instituted by the Federal Fiscal Responsibility Law, the State
never devised a long-term solution to overcoming this limitation. Other States, have found creative
solutions. The key to the sustainability of the urban infrastructure program is the use of loan re-flows for
additional lending.      Unless the State finds a way to reconstitute this, the financing for municipal
infrastructure will be limited.      The development of a new project, Cidades do Ceara, presents an
opportunity to develop a new sustainable financing model for urban and regional infrastructure
development. The role of the newly created Secretariat of Local and Regional Development will have a
critical role to play in ensuring sustainability. The establishment of this secretariat is a strong step towards
sustainability, ensuring that the policy of local development will remain a State priority.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The WRM component has been fully transitioned from a one-off project to the regular operations of the
State, as has been discussed elsewhere in this document. The State, through the creation and strengthening
of COGERH, the Water Resources Management System (SIGERH) and myriad policies pertaining to
water resources management, has fully adopted and internalized the project objectives.                The urban
component has yet to fully establish a transition to regular operations. The transition has thus far been
partial. The State, through the Secretariat of Local and Regional Development has incorporated the major
sub-components of the urban component into it's regular programming, and has partially funded these
during the current multi-year planning cycle. This includes the micro areas component, urban structural
works and institutional development.         The State has also prepared, and submitted to the Federal
Government for approval, a proposal to continue financing the urban development program and expand it
to include regional development. This would be an important step to developing a regular program of
urban development and decentralization. However, the State must find a sustainable financing mechanism
for municipal investments, and must significantly strengthen the capacity of its urban development team, if
it is to expect to make significantly more progress in this area, or it will remain dependent upon outside
financing for sustainability.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
It is difficult to effectively evaluate the Bank performance during the lending period for a project that was
prepared over ten years ago. This is not only due to the age of the project resulting in a scarcity of
available information, but also due to the changing standards of performance over time. Notwithstanding
such limitations, the Bank performance during the lending period is rated as Highly Satisfactory. A total of
four technical missions were undertaken during the course of project preparation in addition to the
appraisal mission, mostly during calendar year 1993. The team was comprised of some of the Bank's top


                                                     - 13 -

specialists in the areas of urban development and WRM and the level of technical analysis and planning
reflects that expertise. In addition to the regular preparation missions, preparation included technical site
visits by the Ceará counterparts (led by the Bank missions) to the States of Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do
Sul and Parana to review and analyze similar projects in these States, at least one of which is considered
best practice. In addition to the technical preparation, adequate measures were taken to ensure that the
Borrower was operationally ready to execute the project. These efforts included establishing a specialized
Project Coordinating Unit and preparation of a project Operations Manual. In addition, detailed designs
for the first five urban investments and the first four reservoirs were completed prior to Board presentation,
in an effort to ensure as little lag as possible in implementation.

The project objectives were clearly and appropriately identified, when compared to the government's and
Bank's policy priorities, and represented the state-of-the-art thinking regarding the best approaches to
addressing urban and WRM challenges - approaches and strategies that remain relevant today. In viewing
project preparation looking backward, it can be said that the whole package was well formulated, given that
over the ten years of implementation the basic structure of the project did not change (albeit there was the
inclusion of two new components, but this was due to an opportunity presented from a local currency
devaluation), and the objectives did not change at all. Given the project outcomes, particularly in the
WRM component and the fact that both components have been fully adopted by the State in its regular
operations, policies and programs, it is clear the project was well conceived and prepared.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is also rated as Highly Satisfactory. Over the course of the project lifetime there were four
separate task managers.        This would normally be excessive and a source of potential problems in
supervision, but it is not uncommon in a project that was executed over a ten year period. In addition, there
was considerable overlap when transitioning from one task manager to another, and thus the institutional
memory was not lost from one task manager to another. Supervision missions were regular (at least twice
yearly) and when supervision was decentralized to Brasilia they became more frequent. Decentralization of
supervision to the field office greatly facilitated and improved supervision quality, allowing the client easier
and more frequent access to the Bank.

The Bank is considered to have been proactive and responsibly flexible in the supervision of the Project.
The State of Ceará is arguably one of the Bank's best and most important clients in the Brazil program.
The Bank has identified Northeast Brazil as a priority region for assistance, given its high incidence of
poverty. Ceará has been a model for developing and implementing good policies in a variety of fields from
infrastructure to social programs. It has also been a State highly receptive to working with the Bank.
Thus, when the project struggled through difficult periods, the Bank was responsive: the loan closing date
was extended three times; Bank cost sharing was increased when cash-flow problems restricted the
availability of counterpart funding; and the Bank worked with the State to solve issues such as overcoming
the limitations on intergovernmental lending presented by the Fiscal Responsibility Law (by agreeing to a
program of matching grants with municipalities). In addition, Bank missions enhanced the quality of project
outputs through the institution of Bank policies in environmental assessment, resettlement and safety of
dams.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
For the reasons stated above, the Bank performance can be rated as overall Highly Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is also rated as Highly Satisfactory. There was buy-in at the



                                                       - 14 -

highest level, with the project clearly responding to the State's policy priorities. Preparation was thorough
and efficient. The State took direct responsibility for much of the project preparation details, including
drafting the Operations Manual and creating the Project Coordinating Unit within the Urban Development
Secretariat.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance was uneven during project implementation, but was overall Satisfactory. The
project was a clear priority of the government, and was seen as the most effective vehicle for pursuing its
urban development and WRM goals. The State took many actions to ensure an effective performance
during the implementation period, including: (i) making institutional reforms that were deemed necessary
to facilitate project implementation (such as separating the two components, see below); (ii) making
available sufficient counterpart funds, albeit that the funds were not always made available in a timely
manner; (iii) contracting of outside consultants to assist the State in overcoming the State's own technical
shortcomings; and (iv) upgrading and modernizing information systems and instituting capacity building
programs for State employees associated with the project.

Among the shortcomings, however, was the periodic reshuffling of the Project Coordinating Unit,
especially the unit in charge of the urban program. That unit was shuffled between at least three different
secretariats during implementation. When the project's urban component was moved to the Secretariat of
Infrastructure, the focus on institutional development suffered, putting too much emphasis on the
infrastructure components.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated as Satisfactory. The project suffered implementation problems
in the early years. This was due, in part, to complete coordination and to some extent execution, being
centralized with the Urban Development Secretariat. The SAR predicted that this arrangement could cause
problems, in particular for the WRM component, and recommended a review of the arrangements within 18
months of effectiveness. In 1997 the two components were separated and each was endowed with a
separate executing agency. Under this new arrangement, the WRM management component took off, and
the end result is a strong water resources management company. There remained, however, a structural
weakness in the urban development unit. A greater effort could have been made to strengthen the technical
capacity of this unit, and make it a leader in urban development policy formulation and project
implementation. While it is strong on issues of urban planning, it still lacks considerable technical capacity
in the area of municipal management and governance.

The restructuring in 1997, while facilitating in many ways the implementation of each individual
component, also created some inefficiencies. Each coordinating unit had to create separate entities for
financial management and procurement. Keeping only these functions centralized, might have avoided
some of the problems encountered in these areas, and might have facilitated the coordination of the project
with other State entities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Water Resources Management

l Well designed water resources management systems are not sufficient to ensure that they will be used
    effectively. Such systems must be developed in tandem with a well articulated WRM policy. These


                                                    - 15 -

   policies must be democratic and developed with legislation that addresses the local situation and that
   allows for the use of new and innovative legal instruments. These instruments, in the case of Ceará,
   include a licensing system for the construction of dams, and the charging for bulk water resources,
   among others.

l Prior to the execution of the PROURB project, investment decision for the construction of reservoirs
   and conveyance systems were made without using proper economic evaluation techniques. The project
   demonstrated that the preparation of good feasibility studies, that include technical, economic,
   environmental and institutional (sustainability) analyses, are fundamental for determining the best
   alternatives at the lowest cost, highest return and greatest likelihood of sustainability, in particular
   regarding future operations and maintenance.

l The participation of civil society, from the planning of the investment, the process of resettlement and
   works execution, is essential for reducing stakeholder conflicts, and for ensuring real stakeholder
   buy-in to the proposed project.

Urban Development

l A well developed institutional development policy is essential for promoting decentralization and
   strengthening municipal management and governance capacity. For a State to develop such a policy
   and to implement a program of municipal development, it must include:            (i) a well trained and
   technically competent staff that can articulate the policy goals and generate support and buy-in at the
   municipal level, and that can adequately manage the institutional development activities and evaluate
   their effectiveness; (ii) if such capacity is lacking, the Bank financed program should specifically aim
   to build that capacity and ensure its institutionalization at the State level; (iii) a strategy that
   differentiates between typologies of municipalities, in order to deliver programs that are most
   appropriate; (iv) a data base that can be used to compare performance between municipalities, across
   the sector and over time; (v) a continual feedback loop so that the State can assess the effectiveness of
   its programs; (vi) periodic training to provide follow-up to capacity programs and to disseminate new
   information that may be useful to municipal and State authorities; and (vii) a possible web-based site
   that includes information of use to municipal authorities such as relevant new legislation, best practices
   in municipal management, among others, and where the data base of comparative performance
   indicators can be made available for all to review.

l Linking improved municipal management and governance performance should be a prerequisite for
   obtaining access to funds for infrastructure investments.         While most Bank financed municipal
   development projects discuss the link between improving financial performance and obtaining loans for
   investment, few actually put this into practice. Political considerations usually interfere with that
   process, as does pressure to distribute resources broadly among municipalities and pressures to
   disburse funds as quickly as possible. However, linking finance to performance is one of the few
   carrots that are available to ensure that municipalities actually buy-into the institutional development
   programs that are offered. It is not sufficient that success in improving municipal performance be
   predicated only on progressive leadership at the local level. While this is essential, programs must
   include incentives to push local leaders into good management governance practices, with results. A
   graduated system such as that employed in the Bank financed Water Sector Modernization Projects
   (PMSS I and II) could be developed for the municipal sector, whereby municipalities are rewarded with
   increasing access to finance dependent upon a given level of performance.            Expected levels of
   performance could also vary according to municipal typology. Not just loan, but grant money should
   also be linked to performance.


                                                     - 16 -

l Any program that devolves project development, works, and supervision to the municipal level, must
    include a component to strengthen local capacity in these functions. Many municipalities lack the
    capacity to develop well prepared infrastructure projects. They also lack capacity to manage the
    bidding construction processes. Urban development projects such as this should include preparatory
    work, as part of the institutional development component, in such areas as project development and
    analysis, the contracting and supervision processes.

l Programs that finance infrastructure works, should include a manual for procedures to follow in
    assessing the feasibility of projects and a minimum threshold for going forward. This should include
    economic analysis, financial analysis (if necessary), social assessment, environmental impacts and
    resettlement plan. This would be in addition to a rigorous credit scoring process that would determine
    the debt capacity of the borrower. This process must be independent of political consideration. In the
    case of PROURB, the decisions to fund specific investments in urban structural works were not based
    on pre-established criteria, a major flaw in the design of the Urban Structural Works component.

General

l Decentralizing the supervision of the project can have added benefit. In this project, supervision was
    decentralized during the last four years of project implementation. This allowed for a more intensive
    and responsive supervision of the project. Decentralization may generally improve the quality of
    supervision.

l A long-term commitment on the part of the Bank can have positive results. The Bank has a long
    history of work in both the urban and WRM sectors in Brazil, and in the State of Ceará in particular.
    This long-term presence and high level of commitment has been one of the primary factors leading to
    the positive results of the project. A sustained commitment increases credibility of Bank guidance and
    induces confidence on the part of the Borrower. It also services to enhance supervision during difficult
    periods.

l It is difficult to merge projects with separate development goals and objectives, in more than one
    sector. This is a valuable lesson as the Bank enters a mode of promoting multi-sector, integrated
    projects. While the results of this project were good, there were difficulties in implementing a project
    that merged WRM with urban development. Integration of the two components was not possible, and
    in the end the project was essentially managed as two separate projects, each independent of the other.
    This is not to undervalue the potential benefits of integration and multi-sector projects, but it does serve
    to caution that such projects are likely to be more complex and will present greater supervision
    challenges than more traditional single-sector projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:



                                    GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF
                                                    CEARÁ

             SECRETARIAT FOR LOCAL AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT (SDLR)
                           SECRETARIAT FOR WATER RESOURCES (SRH)



                                                     - 17 -

  CEARÁ URBAN DEVELOPMENT AND WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
                      PROJECT (PROURB-CE)
                    LOAN AGREEMENT 3789-BR




      SUMMARY OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT(ICR)




CONTRIBUTION BY THE BORROWER TO THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
                             REPORT
                       (Un-Official Translation)




                            MAY 2004




                               - 18 -

INTRODUCTION

The overall objective of the PROURB, as a Ceará State Government Project, was to strengthen local
governments (ie: municipalities) and improve the management of water resources in the state.

The Project was financed by IBRD under Loan Agreement 3789-BR, signed in December 1994 and put
into effect in May 1995. The Loan Agreement was amended in September 1997 to incorporate a
reassessment of targets and highlight an administrative decision to separate the Project's `Urban' and
`Water' Components. The Urban Component was initially administered by the Secretariat for Urban
Development (SDU) - succeeded in 1999 by the State Secretariat for Infrastructure (SEINFRA). With
effect from 2003, responsibility for this component was assumed by the new Secretariat for Local and
Regional Development (SDLR). The water resources component was transferred in 1997 to the
Secretariat for Water Resources (SRH). In addition to the 1997 amendment, the Loan Agreement was
modified a further six times ­ two amendments dealt with changes to the funding percentages and
re-allocation of resources between disbursement categories, while another addressed new component and
expenditure categories. The three remaining amendments concerned extensions to Project deadlines (as
the result of one of which US$3 million was cancelled from the loan).

The Project was planned to cost a total of US$240 million ­ of which US$ 120.1 million were
earmarked to the Urban Component and US$119.9 million to the Water Resources Management
Component. The IBRD loan contract with the Ceará state government was initially for US$140 million.
Some of the IBRD funding for the Urban Component was allotted to a series of subprojects for selected
municipalities to be carried out under the Urban Development Fund (FDU). The state's US$100 million
counterpart comprised, in addition to Ceará State Treasury funds, a BNDES line of financing and a
small contribution made by the municipal prefectures by way of cash, land and a number of
expropriated properties. The Water Component was concluded in 2002 and the Urban Component on
31st December 2003.



1. OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT

1.1. ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES

In accordance with the PROURB Staff Appraisal Report 12836-BR, the overall objective of the Project
was to strengthen local municipal governments and water resources management in Ceará. More
specifically:

·     To strengthen the institutional capacity and financial management of local municipal governments
and state bodies concerned with urban development and management of water resources through
training, technical assistance and appropriate incentives;

·     To improve living conditions in the poorest communities in a number of selected towns by



                                                 - 19 -

investing in basic urban infrastructure to alleviate poverty;

·     To make more efficient use of water resources in the state with the introduction of river basin
management and improvements in the maintenance of existing infrastructure for water storage and
distribution; and

·     To provide a reliable, economical and safe source of water supply for urban communities with
particularly urgent requirements by providing an adequate infrastructure for the storage, transport and
distribution of water.

1.2. REVISED OBJECTIVES

The IBRD/Ceará Loan Agreement was amended in 1997 to take account of the Project's modified
targets.

Following a review of Ceará's urban policies, a degree of competition was introduced between towns
which were keen to attract investment. This initiative became a key element defining Ceará's new urban
policy. 44 municipalities were subsequently selected for `urban intervention' activities, with priority
awarded to those where industrialisation, tourism and irrigated agriculture activities were already
underway.

A total of 26 towns, together with the port complex of Pecém, was selected as beneficiaries of the Water
Component. An additional priority was to continue implementing the Ceará State Water Resources
Management System. Public works targeted on increasing the water supply were focused primarily (but
not exclusively) on those towns already under the aegis of the Urban Component of the Project but
which continued to experience difficulties with obtaining raw water supplies.

Three new objectives were thus incorporated into the PROURB (but did not modify the guidelines laid
down in the original Project), viz:

·     To promote the strategic planning of population centres and to draw up Urban Development
Master Plans for selected cities/towns;

·     To establish Pilot Units for training street-children (the ABC Project);

·     To establish a Pilot Unit for the PROGERIRH Project.

2. PROJECT COMPONENTS

2.1. ORIGINAL COMPONENTS (according to Staff Appraisal Report 12836- BR, not necessarily in
line with the text of Loan Agreement 3789-BR).

PART A ­ INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT

PART A1 - Provision of technical assistance consulting services, training, elaboration of studies,
provision of IT equipment for local governments (municipal and selected state entities) ­ all targeted on
administrative and financial strengthening and on efforts to improve community development and
support for Project management and supervision;



                                                   - 20 -

PART A2 ­ Assistance in implementing water resources management policies including the introduction
of the Management Plan for the four river basins of the State of Ceará, administrative strengthening and
training for the State Water Resources Management Company (COGERH), together with a survey of
raw water charges;

PART B ­ URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE

PART B1 ­ Urban improvement to provide poor families in about 140 -150 micro-areas with basic
municipal infrastructure and the construction of homes using the communal self-help (mutirão) method;

PART B2 ­ Installation of water and sewerage networks in low income areas and a program for
conserving water (including installation of 120,000 water-meters) in the municipalities falling outside
the Fortaleza Metropolitan Area;

PART C - WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE

PART C1 ­ Construction of approximately 30 ­ 35 dams for supplying water to localities with no
proper access to water;

PART C2 ­ Construction of about 10 mains feeder pipes for existing dams;

PART C3 ­ Rehabilitation of existing dams.

PART D ­ PILOT PROJECTS

PART D1 ­ Support for the program undertaken by the State: the ABC Programme `Learning, playing
and growing', aimed at providing vocational training for children from low income families.

PART D2 ­ Support for decentralised water management and the creation of a `water market' in the
Araras Norte Agricultural District.

2.2. REVISED COMPONENTS

As part of the 1997 Project modifications, Part C4 was created under the Water Component. This dealt
with the public works concerned with implementation of the Jaguaribe-Icapuí Transposition Axis.
Subsequently, in 1998 (when further re-targeting took place)         the latter was substituted for the
construction of two dams, the incorporation of the FUNCEME as a beneficiary of the Institutional
Development Component and the addition of the Water Market Pilot Project. Under the Urban
Component, the following were created: (i) Part B3 ­ `Urban Building Works' were introduced, given
the impossibility of continuing funding provision for the micro-areas on the basis of subloans to the
municipalities under the FDO. These works represented part of the major urban works recommended by
the Urban Development Master Plans drawn up under the auspices of the PROURBE; (ii) Part B4 ­ the
Fortaleza Pilot Project in response to a request from SEINFRA to undertake activities to improve urban
conditions in low income areas in the Municipality of Fortaleza by targeting the environmental recovery
of the banks of the River Maranguapinho.




                                                 - 21 -

3. OBJECTIVES AND PRODUCTS ACHIEVED

3.1. PHYSICAL TARGETS ACHIEVED

Achievement of the PROURB objectives can be measured quantitatively by comparing the physical
target plans will those actually executed and, qualitatively, on the basis of assessing the results achieved.

                                                                              Quatity
                  Component/Goal                            Unit
                                                                       Original     Revised         Actual
                                                                                     in 1997
A ­ Institutional Development
    A1 ­ Urban
     Cartography                                           Muni.                  -         44               44
     Máster Plans                                           Plan                76          44               46
     Strategic Plans                                        Plan                  -          3               7
     Urban Structural Projects                            Project                 -       132                49
     MIS                                                  System                  -         44               44
     Management Plans                                       Plan                76          76             122
     Capacity Building                                     Entity                5           4               4
    A2 ­ WRM
      Capacity Building                                    Entity                3           4               4
B ­ Infrastructure
    B 1- Micro Areas
     Micro Areas                                           Áreas               141          71               89
     Families                                            Families          44.113     22.436            25.344
     Housing                                             Housing           28.563     15.833            12.104
    B2- Micro Meters                                       Meters        115.552 155.552               175.552
    B3- Structural Works                                   Work                   -           -              15
    B4 ­ Pilot Project                                     Work                   -           -              1
C ­ WRM Infrastructure
   C1- Conveyance Systems
     Studies                                              Studies               35          23               23
     Construction                                          Dams                 35          16               16
   C2- Construction of Conveyance Systems                    Km                450        352              335
   C3- Dam Rehabilitation                                  Dams                 80          80               28
   C4-Transpsotion                                        Project                0           1               1
      JAGUARIBE/ICAPUÍ                                     Work                   -          1               0
D- Pilot Projects
   D1-PROGRAM ABC                                         Centers               14          14               26
   D2-Water Markets                                       Project                1           1                -

3.2. ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS

The assessment of the Urban Component of the PROURB, concluded in December 2003, highlighted
the following results:

MUNICIPAL INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT: (a) the creation of an urban planning basis as
the result of which 88.9% of the municipalities involved approved relevant legislation governing land
use and occupation; (b) the strengthening of municipality institutional capacities - in particular the



                                                 - 22 -

progress made by these bodies in tax administration areas. Audits of municipal finances clearly
demonstrate that the municipalities which implemented the tax reform plan experienced receipt increases
far in excess of those of non-participating municipalities. Tax income generated within beneficiary
municipalities increased by 449% between 1994 and 2001, whereas non-participants saw their tax-take
increase over the same period by a lesser amount (342%).

INFRASTRUCTURE: 89 critical and/or risk areas were reduced as a result of urban infrastructure
investment, urbanization and/or resettlement, benefiting a population of 25,344 needy families. The
initiatives included construction of 12,104 new dwellings using the mutirão procedure. The assessment
in 72 micro-areas showed that 99.1% of the beneficiaries considered that their overall living conditions
had improved; 70.5% considered that they had benefited from sound organisation and 87% regarded
their dwellings as `excellent' or `good'.

WATER METERING: reduction in water leakage levels and better use made of treated water.
Increased efficiency of the CAGECE water systems in the interior of Ceará and the planned objectives
achieved overall - the leakage levels in the interior were for example reduced from 44.3% in 1994 to
26.7 % in 2003. The number of water meters increased from 18.7% coverage in 1994 to 80.5% in 2003,
made possible by the installation of 175,552 meters funded by the PROURB.

Assisting street children through the `ABC program'. This initiative was considered to have a major
social impact and was widely accepted by the population. An assessment carried out by
SEINFRA/CETREDE showed a variety of positive impacts: children's improved learning skills at
school, better ability to `socialize', enhanced self-confidence, improved relationships with families etc.

URBAN BUILDING: The assessment concerning urban works still underway (September 2003) made
it impossible accurately to assess the impact of such works. However, the beneficiary population drew
attention to the upgraded physical and environmental conditions, enhanced commercial activity and
improved leisure facilities.

As for the Water Component, the following are worth highlighting:

INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT: Activities focused on institutional enhancement and
strengthening of the entities concerned with the state water resources system contributed substantially
towards the implementation of the state water resources policy. Implementation of the policy was
consolidated by the PROURB and continues thanks to the support given by PROGERIRH. The policy is
one of the keys to the sustainability of the state of Ceará - where the water supply issue is a serious
limiting factor in the wider social and economic development context.

CONSTRUCTION OF DAMS AND WATER MAINS: In the sanitation area, approximately 40
localities with a population of about 400,000 were directly benefited by gaining access to water. The
initial water supply was laid on for the industrial port complex of Pecém and a number of agricultural
and industrial enterprises were also strengthened and/or made viable.

In the course of a survey of the beneficiaries of dam building, many confirmed that the new dams were
`superb' and that following their construction water was no longer in short supply. Furthermore, most of
those resettled in the `agrovilas' were satisfied with their new homes. 50% expressed approval of the
plots awarded for irrigated agricultural purposes, while 100% of rural dwellers living in locations where
the irrigation system had not been implemented said that they were `dissatisfied'. Around 90% of
interviewees affirmed that no salinization had been detected in existing wells in the region since


                                                   - 23 -

completion of the works. Regarding expropriation and resettlement, 100% of those interviewed
confirmed that they had attended meetings where registration, evaluation and compensation procedures
were explained. Such meetings also provided opportunities for discussion of the reservoir project, the `
agrovila' concept and future economic and social activities.

Dam Inspection and Safety Panel (PISB). This comprised nationally and internationally-renowned
independent consultants (specialists in water resources). The panel contributed significantly to the
quality and excellent value-for-money of the works undertaken. In addition, the consultants organised
useful training sessions for personnel from both State bodies and private firms.

3.3. PROURB FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

The bulk of expenditure was disbursed as planned in accordance with the following chart. Detailed costs
and funding sources are at Annex 1.

Table 2 Project Financing
                                        (US$ 1.000,00)

                                                          Programmed             Actual       %        %
                                                                                            (c/a)    (c/b)

         Component/Sub-component                     Original      Revised
                                                                  1997/2001/
                                                                      2003        ( c)
                                                         (a)           (b)
A ­Institutional Development
    A1 Urban                                             25,450        25,860      25,475 100,1        98,5
    A2 ­ WRM                                               9,100       13,200      11,274 123,9        85,4
B ­Urban Infrastructure
    B 1- Micro Aras                                      84,800        53,378      52,972     62,5     99,2
    B2- Micro Meters                                       5.850         4,792      4,792     81,9 100,0
    B3- Urban Structural Works                                  0      22,081      23,415          - 106,0
    B4 ­ Fortaleza Pilot Project                                0           996       979          -   98,3
C ­ WRM Infrastructure
   C1- Dams                                              72,900        62,846      75,271 103,3 119,8
   C2- Conveyance Systems                                33,400        30,574      31,348     93,9 102,5
   C3- Dam Rehabilitation                                  2.900         3,000      2,951 101,8        98,4
   C4-Transposition                                             0      10,080         878          -    8,7
      JAGUARIBE/ICAPUÍ
D- Pilot Projects
   D1-PROGRAM ABC                                          4,000         3,342      3,332     83,3     99,7
   D2-Water Markets                                        1.600            200      0,00      0,0      0,0
TOTAL                                                   240,000       230,349    232,687      97,0 101,0
IBRD (1)                                                140,000       137,000    136,193      97,3     99,4
Government                                              100,000        93,349      96,494     96,5 103,4

     (1) According to Bank financial management systems (May 2004)

4. PRINCIPAL FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT




                                                - 24 -

4.1. FACTORS OUTSIDE THE CONTROL OF THE GOVERNMENT OR THE
PREFECTURES

The economic stabilisation and `Real' plans introduced by the Brazilian government in 1994 paved the
way for an upward adjustment of the previously-established targets due to the new currency exchange
situation. This adjustment took place in 1997.

The municipal elections at times resulted in changes of mayors and technical teams and elicited fresh
requirements for training. Electoral legislation during the electoral period effectively impeded
disbursement of funds and the award of new contracts and caused delays in Project execution.

It was difficult to find sufficient numbers of adequately qualified firms in the local consulting services
market to satisfy the demands for urban planning and municipal management services.

The 2000/2001 dry season forced the Ceará state government to divert allocation of resources to
emergency activities, resulting in a reduction in the counterpart funds available for the PROURB.

4.2. FACTORS SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT CONTROL

The many administrative reforms undertaken in the course of the implementation of the Urban PROURB
constituted a further impediment. The withdrawal of the Project Coordination Unit (UGP) was a
particularly hard blow: its functions (mainly those relating to the financial and bidding areas) were
delegated among different administrative sectors.

Difficulties encountered by the prefectures and state government bodies in understanding the bidding
procedures required under the Loan Agreement, in particular the "Shopping" modality, and the rules
governing the contracting of individual consultants and consulting firms.

Delay in making available the budgetary and financial systems for use by the executing body
(particularly during the first quarter of each year), together with cutbacks in budget allocations, caused
backlogs and funding- flow discontinuity. This situation in turn led to certain agreed deadlines not being
met, eg:     delivery of goods and services by firms under contract and delayed payments for
expropriations.

Slowness on the part of the State Environment Superintendency (SEMACE) in dealing with requests for
environmental assessments and delays encountered in registering official titles for the agricultural plots
in the `agrovilas' by the Ceará Institute for Agricultural Development (IDACE).

As for the Water PROURB, the failure of the state decision-making bodies to take account of the
relevance of the activities carried out under the Institutional Development Component and the
importance of the need for active co-participation in the management of water resources.

4.3. FACTORS SUBJECT TO CONTROL BY THE MUNICIPAL PREFECTURES

Expropriations and the legalisation of plots earmarked for resettlement were not carried out at the most
appropriate times. Moreover, counterpart payments were not immediately forthcoming for the executive
projects and for checking progress of the works.

Municipal managers and technical staff demonstrated a lack of knowledge of systematic follow-up of the


                                                  - 25 -

special programmes developed in partnership with the State government.

Difficulties encountered due to turnover of municipal teams required to undertake bidding procedures,
contract-drafting, monitoring and auditing public works and services with the necessary expertise.

5. SUSTAINABILITY OF THE ACTIVITIES

The activities already underway at the behest of the State Government demonstrate the future
sustainability of the Urban Component of the PROURB: (i) funding from the FDU arising from the
returns on loans awarded to prefectures will be applied to new urban development projects in strategic
towns as well as in the Fortaleza Metropolitan Area; (ii) the SDLR, through the Urban Policies
Coordinating Office, maintains a technical support structure for the prefectures vis-à-vis projects that
have been implemented. The Office is also keen to seek new partnerships and fresh lines of financing;
(iii) the State Government intends to involve the State University in permanent `municipal management'
training; and (iv) The State Government is also drawing up a new programme (Cities of Ceará) to be
funded by the IBRD, which will provide continuity for the Urban PROURB activities, principally
regarding the proposals generated by the Regional Development Plans.

One further positive factor signalling sustainability of the Urban Component activities is that most of the
prefectures in the state are using the Urban Development Master Plans as a planning tool for defining
investments, with priorities being partly determined with the assistance of the communities involved.

Sustainability of the Water Component activities of PROURB is considered to be assured on the basis
of initiatives currently being carried forward by the State. The following activities also point to the
continued sustainability of this component: (i) retaining COGERRH as the body responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the reservoirs and for collecting fees for the raw water supplied
throughout the state; (ii) the elaboration of final studies in PROGERIRH on water charging and tariff
levels ; (iii) responsibility for operating and maintaining the water mains transferred to CAGECE with
payments to continue to be made to COGERH for raw water supplies; (iv) the establishment and
operating of the River Basin Committees; and (v) institutional improvement, together with construction
works needed for consolidating SIGERH under the aegis of the PROGERIRH State project and the
PROÁGUA programme run by the Federal Government.

6. ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT

The internal rate of economic return of the Water Component of PROURB
following implementation of the Project was 13.2 % - in other words lower than the 17% projected when
the Project was first formulated. This rate of return is satisfactory given the necessary and
higher-than-anticipated increases in expenditure on expropriations and resettlements. The benefits of the
component also include better water resources management and a substantially improved water
resources institutional apparatus. The latter points were not taken into consideration during the initial
analysis of the Project nor in the analysis of final results.

As for the Urban Component, an internal rate of economic return was not projected at the outset of the
Project. However, the investment cost per family in the micro-areas (building costs and urban
infrastructure) was approximately US$ 2100. This was lower than the amount forecast at the outset of
the Project (US$ 2500).

7. PERFORMANCE OF IBRD, THE STATE GOVERNMENT AND THE PREFECTURES


                                                  - 26 -

7.1. IBRD PERFORMANCE

Performance by the Bank was considered to be highly satisfactory during the preparation and execution
of the Project from the point of view of follow-up, guidance and joint activity targeted on the agreed
objectives.

The Bank always acceeded promptly to requests, with the exception of a few cases concerning
selections/ bids where late responses caused delays in Project execution. The Bank was rigorous
whenever necessary, particularly concerning the identification and selection of construction works and
compliance with environmental guidelines. On the other hand, the Bank proved to be flexible in the
management of the loan contract - for example extending the closing date three times in response to the
Ceará government's justifiable requests.

Perceived difficulties regarding the Bank's performance were due to the various Task Manager
replacements which slowed down the pace of the Project, resulting in delay in accepting funding for Part
B3 without using subloans (for the municipalities). This led to postponement of the start-date for that
part of the Project.

7.2 PERFORMANCE OF THE STATE OF CEARÁ

The government of the State of Ceará (the Borrower) - gave priority to the PROURB in view of its
importance as an urban and water resources policy instrument, considered vital for the economic growth
and sustainability of the state.

The state made every effort to comply with the agreements drawn up with IBRD eg: (i) pressing on with
the reforms and institutional strengthening needed to underpin policies developed under the Project; (ii)
activating the required legal procedures and providing counterpart resources and contributions within the
limitations imposed by the national and state economic situation; (iii) contracting independent
consultants to reinforce the teams provided by the Secretariats and other entities; (iv) training for Ceará
state technical staff, upgrading of premises and procurement of IT equipment and vehicles.

Technical and institutional problems regarding the coordination and execution of the Water Component
were in evidence when the Secretariat for Urban Development (SDU) acted as representative of the
Borrower. When the responsibilities were separated in 1997 and management functions passed to the
Secretariat for Water Resources (SRH), the Water Component began to make speedier progress.

7.3. PERFORMANCE OF THE MUNICIPAL PREFECTURES

The performance of the municipal prefectures can be considered reasonably satisfactory, considering
that these had never participated in projects of this nature previously. The bulk of the prefectures totally
lacked structure in terms of technically-qualified and administrative personnel. Nevertheless, they did
make considerable progress in the areas of management procedures, information technology, internal
controls and collection of charges and paid due regard to the skills and qualities of the officials
concerned.

Most prefectures still have problems with training qualified technical teams and offering
market-compatible salaries. A further difficulty concerns the relative lack of understanding of the
importance of the Urban Development Master Plan, the Regional Plans and the Building Projects in the


                                                  - 27 -

context of the overall development of the municipalities.

8. MAIN LESSONS LEARNED

8.1.WATER PROURB

The success of the water resources management system is directly linked to a just, rational and
democratic Water Policy boasting its own legislation, adapted to local conditions and employing legal
instruments such as licensing procedures for the construction of new water-related works, the granting
of permits for the use of raw water, charging fees for the same etc.

Standardisation of good quality terms of reference including the preparation of a realistic budgets
facilitates the contracting out and the execution of studies, plans and works.

Using a safety inspection panel comprising internationally-known technical personnel from outside the
state (of the Borrower) guarantees the quality and safety of the works to be carried out.

It is important to provide fora where people can obtain information and participate in decisions related
to impending works. It is also vital to provide assistance to communities during the execution of the
works and in particular to give support during the first few years in cases of population resettlement.

Expropriation and resettlement manuals contain guidelines and useful advice of a technical, financial
and legal nature, rendering the expropriation/resettlement process more impersonal.

The coordination of multi-sectoral projects must be exercised by the body representing the Borrower.
This entity has to take responsibility for overall liaison and planning.

8.2 URBAN PROURB

Owing to the lack of preparation by the prefectures and the limited relevant experience of the State at the
outset of the Project, the target of 44 municipalities addressed by the PROURB Urban Component -
covering a broad range of simultaneous activities - can be considered to have been over-ambitious. This
led to extended deadlines, eg: the Project took over 50% longer than the time originally allotted;

A well-constructed institutional development policy is fundamental for improving administrative
procedures and for boosting relative increases in the receipts accruing to the beneficiary municipalities;

The model applied in the state of Ceará for house-building (with the reciprocal-help mutirão system and
the implementation of basic complementary infrastructure) proved to be a highly efficient method of
providing homes for low-income populations.

The basic infrastructure programmes in support of needy populations must be coordinated with other
programmes generating employment, income, healthcare, sanitation and education.

Permanent training of the state and municipal teams involved in the implementation of urban
development projects is a key to ensuring the success of policies and projects.

Finally, as regards urban development projects where execution of works and procurement of goods and
services is carried out by the municipalities themselves, planning must commence at least one year ahead


                                                   - 28 -

   of contracts being awarded. This will ensure that sufficient time is available for drawing up the terms of
   reference, formulating executive projects and undertaking the requisite negotiations with prefectures,
   technical teams and potential beneficiary communities.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                  - 29 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                                                                           Outputs
                    Component                                   Unit               SAR     Revised         Actual
                                                                                             (1997)         (2004)
      A. Institutional Development
      A1. Urban
            Municipal Cartographic Base                     Municipalities           -         44             44
            Urban Master/strategic Plan                         Plans               76         44             46
            Regional Strategic Development Plan                 Plans                -          3             7
            Urban Structural Works Projects                    Projects              -        132             49
            Municipal MIS                                   Municipalities           -         44             44
            Municipal Management Plans1                         Plans               76         76            122
            Institutional Strengthening (state)                Entities              5          4             4
      B1. WRM
            Institutional Strengthening (state)                Entities              3          4             4
      B. Urban Infrastructure
      B1. Micro Areas
            Areas Upgraded or new construction              Neighborhoods           141        71             89
            Beneficiaries                                     Families            44,113     22,436         25,344
            New Housing Units Constructed                      Houses             28,563     15,833         12,104
      B2.  Waters Meters                                   Meters Installed      115,552    155,552        175,552
      B3.  Urban Structural Works                         Works Completed            -          -             16
      B4.  Fortaleza Project                              Works Completed            -          -             12
      C. WRM Infrastructure
      C1. Dam Construction
           Studies/Projects                              Studies Completed          35         23             23
           New Construction                               Dam Constructed           35         16             16
      C2. Conveyance Systems                             Systems Completed          450       352            335
      C3. Dam Rehabilitation                             Dam Rehabilitation         80         80             28
      C4. Jaguariebe/Icapui Transposition
           Projects                                            Projects              -          1             1
           Works                                          Works Completed            -          1             0
      D. Pilot Schemes
      D1. ABC Program                                    Centers Completed          14         14             26
      D2. Water Markets                                        Project               1          1             0
  _______________
 1 These represent a number of different actions undertaken in relation to municipal management in 44
 municipalities.
 2 This consisted of resettling families in the Maranguapinho River area.

The project was prepared prior to the use of the logical framework in Bank financed projects. In addition, the SAR
did not include impact or outcome indicators. Only output indicators were presented in the SAR. The following
table presents the original output projects, the revions of 1997 and actual outputs.
Conveyance systems are in KM constructed.




                                                          - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Appraisal             Actual/Latest             Percentage of
                                                                                        Estimate                Estimate                   Appraisal
                                  Component                                          US$ million              US$ million
 Institutional Development                                                                 25.50                     36.70                       143.9
 Urban Infrastructure                                                                    101.50                      82.30                         81
 WRM Infrastructure                                                                      109.30                     110.40                        101
 Pilot Projects                                                                              3.70                      3.30                       89.2

 Total Baseline Cost                                                                     240.00                     232.70
  Physical Contingencies                                                                     0.00                      0.00
  Price Contingencies                                                                        0.00                      0.00
                                     Total Project Costs                                 240.00                     232.70
                            Total Financing Required                                     240.00                     232.70
Costs include price contingencies in SAR estimates. SAR did not include physical contingencies.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      1
                                                                     Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                            ICB                 NCB                            2              N.B.F.             Total Cost
                                                                                                 Other
1. Works                                            28.90                 98.60                   7.00                   0.00                  134.50
                                                   (18.10)              (59.10)                  (4.20)                 (0.00)                (81.40)
2. Goods                                            32.10                 26.00                   20.50                  0.00                  78.60
                                                   (19.70)              (15.60)                 (12.30)                 (0.00)                (47.60)
3. Services                                           0.00                0.00                    22.00                  0.00                  22.00
                                                    (0.00)               (0.00)                 (11.00)                 (0.00)                (11.00)
4. Miscellaneous                                      0.00                0.00                    0.00                   4.90                   4.90
                                                    (0.00)               (0.00)                  (0.00)                 (0.00)                 (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                      0.00                0.00                    0.00                   0.00                   0.00
                                                    (0.00)               (0.00)                  (0.00)                 (0.00)                 (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                      0.00                0.00                    0.00                   0.00                   0.00
                                                    (0.00)               (0.00)                  (0.00)                 (0.00)                 (0.00)
     Total                                          61.00                124.60                   49.50                  4.90                  240.00
                                                   (37.80)              (74.70)                 (27.50)                 (0.00)               (140.00)
All amounts include price contingencies. Number in parentheses are teh respective amounts finance by the Bank.
Other methods include local shopping (goods and works) and hiring of consultants. Note that the civil works amount include other services such as
transportation and training associated with those civil works.
Acquisition of land for housing and reservoir components, not Bank-financed.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      1
                                                                     Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                            ICB                 NCB                            2             N.B.F.             Total Cost
                                                                                                Other
1. Works                                            12.00                97.90                   27.20                 25.00                 162.10
                                                    (8.40)              (64.20)                 (15.20)                (0.00)                (87.80)
2. Goods                                            15.20                 2.10                    5.20                  0.00                  22.50
                                                   (10.90)               (1.50)                 (3.10)                 (0.00)                (15.50)
3. Services                                           1.20                0.00                   46.20                  0.00                  47.40

                                                                      - 31 -

                                           (1.10)             (0.00)           (31.20)            (0.00)           (32.30)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.70             0.00              0.70
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.70)            (0.00)           (0.70)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                28.40            100.00             79.30             25.00            232.70
                                           (20.40)           (65.70)           (50.20)            (0.00)          (136.30)
   Actual based on Borrower supplied financial information.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Institutional Development      13.00        12.50                    28.00         8.70                  215.4     69.6
Urban Infrastructure           54.80        31.50        15.20       43.90         38.30                 80.1     121.6      0.0
WRM Infrastructure             70.40        28.60        10.30       62.20         48.30                 88.4     168.9      0.0
Pilot Projects                  1.80         1.90                     2.10         1.20                  116.7     63.2

   Co-financing is identified as CAGECA and COGERH, both state entities.




                                                           - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The following table presents the results of the economic assessment as indicated in the SAR, compared
with the actual. No analyses were conducted for the institutional development components, pilot projects
or revised components (C4, B3 and B4).

         Component                 Projected Results              Actual Results
                               Base      +20%       -20%
Construction of New Dams                  Costs    Benefits
and Conveyance Systems                                               13.22%
                               17%       14.7%     14.3%

                              Threshold per/household       Actual investment cost per
Micro Areas Upgrading         investment cost of            household was US$2,100
                              US$2,500 considered cost
                              effective




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count            Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Four Separate     14 (number    Specialists included Bank and
              preparation           varied    consultants in the areas of Urban
              missions during  according to   Development, Environmental
              1993                 mission    and Socially Sustainable
                                 objective)   Development, Finance and
                                              Financial Management, Bank
                                              Operations, Procurement, Water
                                              Supply and Sanitation, Water
                                              Resources Management.


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              November 1993               8   Urban Development,
                                              Operations, Environment,
                                              Water Resources
                                              Management and
                                              Consultants

 Supervision

              12/19/1994                  5   ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);                   S               S
                                              HYDROLOGIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1); WATER
                                              RES. SPECIALIST (1); SR.
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              10/27/1995                  5   ENVIRONMENT (1);                      S               S
                                              URBAN/INST. DEVELOP. (1);
                                              PROCUREMENT (1); WATER
                                              RESOURCE (1); FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST (1)
              03/22/1996                  5   ENVIR./RESETTLEMENT (1);              S               S
                                              URBAN/INST. DEVELOP. (1);
                                              WATER MANAGEMENT
                                              SPEC. (2); FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST (1)
              06/04/1996                  3   ENVIR./RESETTLEMENT (1);              S               S
                                              URBAN INST. DEVELOP. (1);
                                              WATER MANAGEMENT
                                              SPEC. (1)
              03/23/1996                  6   DIVISION CHIEF (1);                   U               S
                                              ENVIR./RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                              RESETTLEMENT (1);
                                              URBAN/INST. DEVELOP. (1);
                                              WATER MANAGEMENT
                                              SPEC. (1); TM (FIN.
                                              ANALYST) (1)



                                               - 34 -

      10/31/1996    3 ENIVR./RESETTLEMENT (1);     U    S
                      URBAN/INST. DEVELOP. (1);
                      WATER MANAGEMENT
                      SPEC. (1)
      01/25/1997    7 ENVIR./RESETTLEMENT (2);     U    S
                      RESETTLEMENT (2);
                      URBAN/INST. DEVELOP. (1);
                      WATER MANAGEMENT (1);
                      PROJECTS ADVISER (1)
      10/31/1997    6 TASK MANAGER/URBAN (1);      S    S
                      WATER RESOURCES (2);
                      RESETTLEMENT (1); ENV (1);
                      PREVIOUS TM (1)
      04/30/1998    2 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      10/16/1998    1 URBAN PLANNER (1)            S    S
      04/23/1999    2 PR.OPERATIONS OFFICER        S    S
                      (1); SR.URBAN SPECIALIST
                      (1)
      04/23/1999    3 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      CONSULTANT (1); FIN.
                      MGMT. ANALYST (1)
      04/23/1999    3 PRINC. OPERATIONS OFF.       S    S
                      (1); CONSULTANT (2)
      11/21/2000    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);        S    S
                      URBAN SPECIALIST (1);
                      CONSULTANT (2)
      05/24/2001    4 URBAN SPECIALIST (1);        S    S
                      LEAD OPERATIONS OFFR.
                      (1); ENVIR/RESETTLEMENT
                      SPE (1); CONSULTANT (1)
      11/02/2001    1 URBAN SPECIALIST (1)         S    S
      11/02/2001    1 Supervision (1)              S    S
      01/31/2002    4 TASK MANAGER (1)             S    S
                      ENV. SPECIALIST (1);
                      ECONOMIST (1); URBAN
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      05/28/2002    1 ECONOMIST (1)                S    S
      12/11/2002    3 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      ECONOMIST (1); ENV.
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      07/21/2003    2 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      ECONOMIST (1)
      11/04/2003    2 TASK MANAGER (1);            S    S
                      ECONOMIST (1)

ICR
      04/01/04      2 SENIOR URBAN
                      SPECIALIST (1),
                      ECONOMIST/CONSULTA
                      NT (1)




                      - 35 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   NA                            152.25
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        NA                             65.25
  Supervision                                  NA                          1,870.00
  ICR                                          NA                             15.00
  Total                                        NA                          1,319.50
According to the Bank Project Portal, the total costs for preparing and supervising the project are
US$1,319,500. The year by year data only goes to 1998, prior to which it is reported cumulatively.
Estimates suggests that the annual average supervision costs were approximately US$108,000.
Preparation and appraisal costs are estimated. Staff and consultant costs (labor) represent an estimated
85% of the total costs, with about 15% allocated to travel and associated expenses.




                                                  - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                        H       SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                       H       SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                              H       SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                             H       SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development             H       SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                         H       SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction            H       SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                       H       SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)       H       SU    M       N    NA
   Private sector development            H       SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management              H       SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)                H       SU    M       N    NA


Sector policies refer to the sectors of urban and municipal development and water resources management.
Although the policy ratings for the WRM sector policies is High, the overall rating is considered substantial
due to the lower ratings for the urban development component regarding Sector Policies. Institutional
Development is rated substantial, with the WRM rating as high, but with a modest rating for the urban
component. Public Sector Management rating is considered substantial considering the great improvements
in both the WRM and urban development sectors during the project period, and because of the at least
modest impacts at the municipal level.




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

l Staff Appraisal Report. Brazil, Ceará Urban Development and Water Resources Managemetn Project,
  World Bank, August 15, 1994.

l Relatorio de Encerramento do PROURB-RH, Governo do Estado do Ceará, 13 de janeiro de 2003.


l Avaliação Final do Componente Urbano de PROURB-CE, Governo do Estado de Ceará, 30 de
  dezembro de 2003.

l Carta Consulta, Programa Cidades do Ceará. Janeiro de 2004.


l Project Status Reports


l Back-to-Office Reports


l Project Aide Memoires




                                              - 39 -

- 40 -

