Page  1
September 19, 1997
Exmo. Sr. Governador Tasso Ribeiro Jereissati 
Palácio do Governo 
Cambeba 60.839-900 
Fortaleza, Ceará 
Brazil
Re.:
Loan 3789-BR - Ceará Urban Development and Water Resources
Management Project - Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and the State of Ceará (the Borrower), dated December 16, 
1994 for the referenced Project.  We are pleased to inform you that the Bank agrees 
with the Borrower’s request to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Sections 1.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
"Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BEC" means Banco do Estado do Ceará, the State's bank;
(b)
"BEC Agreements" means the agreements between the Borrower and BEC, dated 
April 15, 1994, whereby BEC has agreed to assist the Borrower in making Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements and Grant Agreements;
(c)
"Beneficiary" means either a Municipality, or SRH, or SDU, or CAGECE, or 
COELCE, or a Municipal Water and Sewerage Company;
(d)
"CAGECE" means Companhia de Água e Esgoto do Ceará, the Borrower's water 
and sewerage company;
(e)
"CAGECE" Performance Plan" means the financial plan for CACEGE described 
in the letter dated April 15, 1994 from the Borrower to the Bank;
(f)
"COELCE" means Companhia Energética do Estado do Ceará, the Borrower's 
power company;
(g)
"COHAB" means Companhia de Habitação do Ceará, the Borrower’s housing 
company;
(h)
"COGERH" means Companhia de Gestão dos Recursos Hídricos, the Borrower's 
water resources management company;
(i)
"Dam Safety Review Panel" means the panel of experts in dam safety who 
will assist SRH in the reviews referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement, 
pursuant to the terms of reference included in SRH's dam safety program issued in June 
1994, such panel to be composed of experts with qualifications acceptable to the Bank;
(j)
"DNOCS Agreement" means the agreement, dated February 8, 1994, as 
amended, between Departamento Nacional de Obras contra as Secas and the Borrower 
providing for the transfer to the Borrower of the responsibility for the operation and 
maintenance of the reservoirs included in Part C.3 of the Project;
(k)
"FDU" means Fundo de Desenvolvimento Urbano do Estado do Ceará, the 
Borrower's urban development fund, created pursuant to the Borrower's law No. 
12252/94, to which shall be deposited the proceeds of the Loan and the Borrower's 
counterpart funds allocated to finance Parts A.1, B and D.1 of the Project;
(l)
"FDU Grant" means any grant made under a FDU Grant Agreement;
(m)
"FDU Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.03 (a)(i) of this Agreement;
Page  2
(n)
"FDU Subloan" means any loan made under a FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(o)
"FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to 
in Section 3.03 (b)(i) of this Agreement;
(p)
"FEBEMCE" means Fundação do Bem Estar do Menor do Ceará, the Borrower’s 
Foundation for Children’s Welfare;
(q)
"FUNCEME" means Fundação Cearense de Meteorologia e Recursos Hídricos, 
the Borrower’s Foundation of Meteorology and Water Resources;
(r)
"Municipal Water and Sewerage Company" means any water and sewerage 
company owned or controlled by a Municipality, which is considered by the Borrower as 
eligible, pursuant to the criteria specified in Operational Manual, to receive FDU 
Subloans;
(s)
"Municipality" means any municipality of the Borrower which is considered 
by the Borrower as eligible, pursuant to the criteria specified in the Operational 
Manual, to participate in the carrying out of Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project;
(t)
"Operational Manual" means the manual issued by SDU through Portaria No. 
094/94, of July 14, 1994, containing, inter alia, a basic Project orientation guide 
for the Beneficiaries, eligibility criteria for the Beneficiaries, eligibility 
criteria for the Subprojects, standard bidding documents and letters of invitation, 
Subproject monitoring and evaluation criteria and guidelines for the preparation of 
environmental assessment of Subprojects and of resettlement and mitigation plans;
(u)
"SDU" means Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Urbano e Meio Ambiente, the 
Borrower's Secretariat of Urban Development and Environment;
(v)
"SEMACE" means Superintendência Estadual do Meio Ambiente, SDU's 
Superintendency of Environment;
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(x)
"SRH" means Secretaria dos Recursos Hídricos, the Borrower's Secretariat 
for Water Resources;
(y)
"SAS" means Secretaria do Trabalho e Ação Social, the Borrower's Labor 
and Social Assistance Secretariat;
(z)
"SEDURB" means Superintendência do Desenvolvimento Urbano do Estado do 
Ceará, the Borrower’s Urban Development Superintendency;
(aa)
"Subproject" means any of the subprojects included in Parts B and C of 
the Project, which are considered to be eligible, pursuant to the criteria specified 
in the Operational Manual (and, in the case of Part C of the Project, which have also 
been approved by the Bank), to be financed under FDU Subloans;
(bb)
"UGPDU" means the unit within SDU created for purposes of managing the 
execution of Parts A.1, B and D.1 of the Project; and
(cc)
"UGPRH" means the unit within SRH created for the purposes of managing 
Parts A.1, A.2, C and D.2 of the Project."
2.
Wherever they appear in the Loan Agreement, the terms "FUNORH Grant", "FUNORH 
Grant Agreement", "FUNORH Loan" and "FUNORH Subsidiary Loan Agreement" are deleted, 
and the terms "Grant Agreement" and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" are replaced with the 
terms "FDU Grant Agreement" and "FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreement", respectively.
3.
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date."
4.
A new section 2.08 is inserted in the Loan Agreement to read as follows:
"Section 2.08. The Secretary of SDU in respect of Parts A.1, B and D.1 of the 
Project, and the Secretary of SRH in respect of Parts A.2, C and D.2 of the Project, 
and the person or persons designated in writing by such Secretaries in connection with 
the relevant Parts of the Project as referred to above, are designated as 
Page  3
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions."
5.
Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as 
follows:
"Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) 
carry out through SDU or cause, through the FDU Grant Agreements, Municipalities, 
CAGECE, SEMACE, SEDURB, COHAB to carry out their corresponding activities under Part 
A.1 of the Project; (b) carry out through SRH Parts A.2, C and D.2 of the Project; and 
(c) cause, through the FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the FDU Grant Agreements, 
Municipalities and COELCE to carry out Part B.1 of the Project; (d) cause, through the 
FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements and the FDU Grant Agreements, Municipalities, CAGECE 
and Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies to carry out Part B.2 of the Project; (e) 
pursuant to arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, carry out Part D.1 of the Project, 
through the Municipalities with support of SAS and FEBEMCE; all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
engineering 
and environmental practices and the provisions of the Operational Manual, and the 
Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project."
6.
Sections 3.03 (a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement are amended to read as follows:
"Section 3.03. (a)  The Borrower, through BEC, shall enter into agreements with 
Municipalities, CAGECE, COELCE and Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies (the FDU 
Grant Agreements) whereby the Borrower shall undertake to transfer, on a grant basis, 
to each Municipality, CAGECE, COELCE and each Municipal Water and Sewerage Company, as 
the case may be, the proceeds of the FDU allocated to finance, on a grant basis, the 
respective component of Part A.1 and the Subprojects under Part B of the Project under 
the responsibility of such Municipality, CAGECE, COELCE and Municipal Water and 
Sewerage Company; such FDU Grant Agreements to have terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including those set forth or referred to in Part II of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower, through BEC, shall enter into agreements with 
Municipalities, CAGECE, COELCE and Municipal Water and Sewerage Companies (the FDU 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements), whereby the Borrower shall relend to each Municipality, 
CAGECE, COELCE and each Municipal Water and Sewerage Company the proceeds of the Loan 
deposited in the FDU and allocated to finance their respective Subprojects under Part 
B of the Project; such FDU Subsidiary Loan Agreements to have terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in Part I of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement."
7.
In Section 3.03 (d) of the Loan Agreement the word "respectively" is deleted.
8.
In Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement the term "UCP" is replaced with the terms 
"UGPDU and "UGPRH", and in the last sentence of such Section the word "its" is 
replaced with the word "their".
9.
In Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement the reference to "Part C.1 of the Project" 
is replace with "Parts C.1 and C.4 of the Project". 
10.
In Section 3.09 and 4.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement the term "UCP" is replaced 
with the terms "UGPDU and "UGPRH".
11.
Sections 7.01 and certain addresses set forth 7.02 of the Loan Agreement are 
amended to read as follows:
"Section 7.01. The Governor of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions."
Changes of addresses in Section 7.02 of the Loan Agreement:
"For the Borrower:
Governo do Estado do Ceará
Palácio do Governo - 2° Andar
Cambeba 60.839-900
Fortaleza, Ceará
Page  4
Brazil
With copies to:
SEAIN-Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orçamento e Coordenação
   da Presidência da República
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5° Andar
70040-906 Brasília, DF
Brazil
Secretaria do Desenvolvimento Urbano e
   Meio Ambiente
Centro Administrativo Governador Virgilio
   Távora
Edificio Sede da Seplan - 1° Andar
60050-081 Fortaleza, Ceará
Brazil
Secretaria de Recursos Hídricos
Rua Antonio Augusto 555
60110-370 Fortaleza - Ceará
Brazil
12.
Schedules 1, 2 and 6 to the Loan Agreement are amended in their entirety as set 
forth in Annexes 1, 2 and 3, respectively, to this letter of amendment. 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
both originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  
This amendment shall enter into effect on the date of this letter upon receipt by the 
Bank of one signed original. 
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Gobind T. Nankani 
Director 
Country Management Unit - Brazil 
Latin America & the Caribbean Region
AGREED 
STATE OF CEARÁ
Tasso Ribeiro Jereissati
Authorized Representative
cc:
Mr. Pewdro Malan, Minister of Finance
Mr. Luiz Carlos Sturzenegger, PGFN
Mr. Roberto Jaguaribe, SEAIN
