Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13765
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1942-BD)
DECEMBER 6, 1994
Industry and Finance Division
Country Department I
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 6, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Note on Bangladesh
Industrial Energy Efficiency Project (Credit 1942-BD)
Attached is the Project Completion Note on Bangladesh - Industrial
Energy Efficiency Project (Credit 1942-BD) prepared by the South Asia Regional
Office. The Borrower did not prepare Part II.
The project was canceled in April 1992, almost four years after Board
approval, without any funds being disbursed. As explained in the Project
Completion Note (PCN), there was no demand for the credits from the
pre-identified public sector entities for whom the project was mainly designed
because they were unable to meet the subproject qualification criteria of
demonstrated financial and economic viability.  There was no demand from the
private sector either because the terms and conditions were not perceived as
attractive, and, at prices paid for power, conservation investments were
unprofitable.
The project was designed without the participation of the
implementing financial intermediary and did not take into account the
requirements of likely potential beneficiaries.   Its outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory, the institutional development impact as negligible and the
sustainability of whatever was achieved as unlikely.
The PCN gives a succinct and comprehensive analysis of why the
project failed, and correctly identifies the pertinent lessons.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



0



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(CR. 1942-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
1.    This Project Completion Note has been prepared in lieu of a Project Completion Report for
the Industrial Energy Efficiency Project (IEEP). The SDR 8.3 million Credit for this Project (Cr.
1942-BD) was approved in June 1988, became effective in November 1989 and was canceled in
April 1992. There were no disbursements under the Credit. The TA funds provided by ODA were,
however, utilized.
A. Project Identity
Name:              Industrial Energy Efficiency Project
Credit No.:        Cr. 1942-BD
RVP Unit:          South Asia Region
Country:           Bangladesh
Sector:            Energy
B. Project Background
2.    While the Government of Bangladesh has accelerated development of the country's abundant
natural gas reserves to replace more costly energy sources, Bangladesh remains highly dependent on
oil imports. It is therefore critical that the country save energy by improving energy use efficiency
through conservation measures, in addition to continuing the development of natural gas. In support
of the Governrnent's energy rationalization program, IDA financed Industrial Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project (the First Energy Efficiency Project, Credit 1357-BD) which, among
others, assisted in establishing the Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU) responsible for energy
conservation activities and the carrying out of energy audits in 46 industrial and power plants.
3.    Continuing the efforts initiated under the First Energy Efficiency Project, this Credit was
designed to support the national energy conservation program through two complementary
components: (a) a line of credit to support energy conservation investments in about 50 industrial
and power generation plants and (b) technical assistance to further strengthen the technical
capabilities of EMU and the project appraisal and supervision capabilities of Agrani Bank, the
proposed financial agent for the Project.
C. Proiect Objectives and Description
4.    The objectives of the Project were to help implement identified energy conservation measures
in economically and financially viable indusrrial and power plants, thereby reinforcing the overall
industrial sector objectives of higher efficiency and increased competitiveness. The Project also
aimed to promote development of appropriate policies, technologies and institutional framework to
further strengthen the country's energy rationalization program.



-2-
D. Proiect Components
6.     The Project comprised two main components: (a) institutional strengthening component and
(b) investment component. Under the institutional strengthening component, the Project was to
provide financing for EMvIU to (a) carry out promotional activities; (b) carry out a training program
for EMIU  and A2rani Bank staff, energy managers and operational/maintenance personnel of
enterprises, and staff of technical institutes and local consulting organizations; c) provide technical
assistance to enterprises in the implementation of energy conservation measures; and d) prepare
studies and a data base to support the national energy conservation program. The Project also
included a provision for financing to Agrani Bank for strengthening project appraisal capability,
especially in the financial and economic analyses of energy conservation investments.  --technical
assistance to enhance capabilities of EMU and project appraisal capability, especially in the financial
and economic analyses of energy conversation investments.
7.     Under the investment component, the Project was to provide a line of credit to finance energy
conservation investments in the industrial and power sectors. Channeled through the Agrani Bank,
the credit line was to finance about 50 energy conservation subprojects, in particular those identified
by energy audits conducted under the first Energy Efficiency Project. The Project also provided
financing for onepilot proj=t in cogeneration to demonstrate its benefits and resolve related issues.
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
5.     The total Project cost was estimated at US$15 million, including a local component of
US$5.6 million. The Credit amount of US$11.4 million was to cover US$8.9 million of foreign
costs and US$2.5 million of local expenditures for the energy conservation sub-projects. The
remaining foreign costs of US$0.5 milion, representing the costs of the foreign contractor hired for
EMU, were to be financed by ODA. Other local costs included the investmnents by the enterprises
(US$2.8 million) and Agrani Bank's contribution to TA (US$0.1 million).
F. Proiect Implementation
8.     The Credit became effective in November 1989, sixteen months after signing. The delay was
mainly in finalizing the technical assistance contract with the two foreign consulting firms, one for
EMU and the other for Agrani Bank. Soon after Credit effectiveness it became apparent that the 32
pre-identified public sector sub-projects, accounting for about 65% of expected sub-loan demand,
were no longer qualified for the Project. They were either ineligible to avail of the Credit because
of their poor financial condition or, the few that appeared to be eligible, were unwilling to apply for
sub-loans because of the Credit terms and conditions, specially the market rate of interest. The
project was, therefore, left with the 13 private sector energy conservation investments, expected to
use only 4% of the Credit funds, and one cogeneration project anticipated to account for another
31% of the funds. However, other than the cogeneration project, none of the 13 private sector sub-
project sponsors applied for financing under the Credit.
9.     Since most of the pre-identified private sector sub-projects, other than the cogeneration sub-
project. vwere relatively small costing less than US$50,000 the entrepreneurs preferred to undertake
them with their own or borrowed funds by purchasing the foreign exchange from the Secondary
Exchange Mlarket rather than through the Credit. The Credit funds, therefore, became redundant



-3-
as far as the identified sub-projects were concerned, and it became apparent that for utilization of
Credit funds new sub-projezts, besides those identified by the energy audits. had to be solicited. But
neither EMU nor Agrani Bank had any action plan to identifv and solicit new sub-projects.
10.   At the suggestion of IDA Supervision missions some efforts to stimulate the demand for
Credit funds were made through newspaper advertisements and seminars. These resulted in the
receipt of two additional cogeneration sub-project proposals by December 31, 1990. Although EMU
found all the three cogeneration proposals technically viable. Agrani Bank found two of the three
proposals unworthy of credit because of those enterprise's continuing default on existing debts.
Agrani was, therefore, not willing to mobilize their international consultant, DFCC, for carrying out
the financial appraisal for the three proposals amounting to about US$3 million, which was less than
25%  of the Credit.  Agrani Bank refrained from inviting DFCC to conimence work as: (a) its
agreement with DFCC required them to invite DFCC only when five sub-loan applications were in
hand; (b) it was not cost-effective for them to mobilize DFCC since the consultants expenses were
higher than the 1 % fee that it was entided to charge the sponsors; and (c) it was apparently left with
one viable sub-loan of US$1.3 million only, on December 31, 1991, the cutoff date specified in the
DCA for the receipt of sub-loan applications by IDA. Moreover, the creditworthiness of that single
sub-loan was also not clearly established.
G. Results of the Proiect
11.   The lack of sub-loan demand for energy conservation investments jeopardized the attainment
of Project objectives. Since no sub-loan applications were received by IDA within the cut-off date
and no other sub-project proposals were in the pipeline, other than three cogeneration sub-projects
by enterprises whose creditworthiness was not clearly established, it was clear that disbursement
under the Credit was unlikely. Moreover, since IDA had by then approved a general credit line in
the industrial sector, through the Private Sector Industrial Credit (PSIC), which could also finance
any sub-project under this Credit, GOB was recommended to request for cancellation of the Credit.
Primarily because of this reason, and to reduce unutilized aid balances which were of concern to both
GOB and donors, GOB agreed with our recommendation and made the formal request for
cancellation in April 1992; the Credit.was canceled as of April 7, 1992.
H. Lessons Learned
12.   An analysis of the reasons for the failure of this Project provides important lessons for the
future. The main lessons learned from the failure of this Project are as follows:
(a) The essential underpinnings of project concept should be exhaustively reviewed. With
hindsight it is now apparent that the Project design was very poor. Not enough background work
was done in designing the Project as a result of which the following problems seriously affected
implementation: (i) A major contradiction in the project design lay in the terms and conditions of
sub-loans as specified in the Development Credit Agreement. Thus, to qualify for sub-loans an
enterprise had to "demonstrate its financial and economic viability."  This condition alone
disqualified most of the pre-identified public sector enterprises, for whom the Credit was mainly
designed, since they were already defaulting on their debts because of their huge operating losses.
An exnaustive review would have brought out the fact that most potential sub-borrowers were



- 4 -
uncreditworthy, and therefore the project was a non-starter. (ii) The second weakness in the design
was the cumbersome and time consuming process specified for approval of the sub-loans. Thus the
sub-loan proposals had to pass through five agencies, viz., the EMU and its consultants NIFES,
Agrani Bank and its consultants DFCC, and IDA, for approval. This required a relatively longer
processing time than for obtaining a short-term loan which could be rolled over. (iii) The third
deficiencv in the design lay in the fact that not much attention was paid to determine the actual
energy costs to the private sector firms. The real energy costs for many private entrepreneurs was
low because of collusion between the firms and power company employees and this caused energy
conservation sub-projects to be unprofitable. Since the actual cost of energy to users was quite
different from the published tariff, the demand for Credit funds based on the latter turned out to be
quite optimistic.
(b) Market demand for funds need to be assessed realistically: The Credit funds were
expected to be utilized for financing mainly the pre-identified energy conservation sub-projects.
When those sub-projects failed to apply for the anticipated sub-loans the demand for Credit funds
simply disappeared.  Moreover, being a directed Credit its beneficiaries expected to receive
additional benefits such as a low subsidized interest rate, loose eligibility criteria and long repayment
periods. Since the Project funds in fact were to be lent on market related terms, the sub-project
beneficiaries who hoped to gain from such poor practices lost interest.
(c) Effectiveness conditions should be kept simple to avoid delays in fulfillment: The
inordinately long period of sixteen months that GOB took to fulfill all the effectiveness conditions
also had its toll on the Credit. During this time the private entrepreneurs undertook, on their own,
most of the urgently required conservation measures identified by the energy audits without waiting
for the Credit to become effective. Given the relatively easy availability of short term financing
through the Secondary Exchange Market, prevailing at that time, there was no advantage in waiting
for the Credit to become effective.
(d) Implementing azencies should be involved during project preparation to create a sense
of ownership: Agrani Bank alleged that they were chosen in this Project without their consent and
hence showed no interest in processing the three sub-loan proposals it received just prior to the cut-
off date. The Project also suffered from inadequate publicity by Agrani and EMU to promote the
advantages of the Credit facility to the potential beneficiaries. An actively involved and interested
implementing agency should be able to address such issues independently and in a timely manner.



- 5 -
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
(CR. 1942-BD)
STATISTICAL SUMMARY
1. Related IDA Credits
Loan/Credit        Purpose/Comrnents                      Year of      Status
Approval    ______
Cr. 1357-BD        To carry out energy audits in 46       1983         completed
Energy Efficiency   industrial and power plants and to
& Refinery         formulate a national energy conservation
Rehabilitation     program. The energy audits identified
Project.           energy conservation projects in 32 public
sector enterprises and in 14 private
sector firms.
Follow-on Project
None.
2. Project Timetable
Item             Date Planned          Date Revised          Date Actual
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal                                                       February 1987
Negotiations                                                    May 16-18, 1988
Board Approval                                                  June 29, 1988
Credit Signature                                                July 21, 1988
Credit Effectiveness   September 30, 1988    October 19, 1988   November 13, 1989
Project Completion    December 31, 1994            _            April 7, 1992
Credit C1Qsing       June 30. 1995 per                          April 7, 1992



- 6 -
3. Cumulative Credit Disbursements (USS Millions)
SDR
Original Amount:         8,300,000          11,400,000
Amount Disbursed:        0                  0
Amount Cancelled:        8,300,000          11,400,000
4. Use of IDA Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle           Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                      83.4
Appraisal through Board Approval       17.8
Board Approval through                 5.0
Effectiveness
Supervision                            9.0
TOTAL                                 115.2



B. Supervision Missions
Month/Year    No. of         Specialization    Days    Performance        Types of
Persons                        in       Ratin -           Problem
Field                     _ _ _ _ _ _
08,88            1          IE                            l
07/89            1           IE
01190           2            FA                7          3               M,T
06/90            1           FA                5          3               M,T
08/90           2            FA, IE            10         3               M,T
03/91           2           FA, IE             10         3               M,T
08/91            1           FA                5          3               M,T
03/92           2            FA, IE            10         3               M,T
FA = Financial Analyst, Credit Line; TA = TA programming; IE = Industrial Economist.
2  1 = Problem free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
3  F = Financial; M  = Management; T = Technical.



