Document of.
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6778-BD
STAFF APPRAISIt REPORT
BANGLADESH
JINDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
May 25, 1988
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department 1
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Taka (TK)       US$ 3 TK 31.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 barrel (bbl)                     =  42 US gallons
1 Ton of crude oil (0.85 sp.gr.)  =  7.4 barrel
1 metric ton (ton.t)               =  1,000 kilograms or 2,205 pounds
1 kilocalorie (kcal)               =  3.968 British Thermal Units (BTU)
=  4.1868 kilojoules (KJ)
1 ton of oil equivalent (toe)       =  10,200 Mcal = 41 million BTU
=  42.7 x 106 KJ
1 Megawatt (MW)                    =  1,000 kilowatts (103 kW)
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)              =  1 million kilowatt-hours (106 ktIfH)
=  307 toe (at 27.52 thermal
conversion efficiency)
1 standard cubic feet (scf) of
natural gas                     =  1,036 BTU
ABEREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP    - Annual Development Program
BCIC   -  Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BPC    -  Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation
BPDB   -  Bangladesh Power Development Board
DPEC   -  Department Project Evaluation Committee
ECCG   -  Energy Conversation Coordination Group
ECNEC  -  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EliU    -  Energy Monitoring Unit
GOB    -  Government of Bangladesh
LRMC   -  long run marginal cost
mcf    -  thousand standard cubic feet
MEMR   - Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
mmtoe  - million tons of oil equivalent
NCB    -  Natio.aalized Commercial Bank
ODA    -  Overseas Development Administration (a British aid agency)
PSE    -  Public Sector Enterprise
scfd   -  standard cubic feet per day
SPEC   -  Special Projects Evaluation Committee
TAPP   -  technical assistance project proforma
tcf    -  trillion cubic feet
FISCAL YEARS
Government:    July 1 to June 30
Agrani Bank:   January 1 to Decembei 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of Bangladesh (GOB)
Beneficiariest       Enterprises and Agrani Bank
Amountt               SDR 8.3 million (US$11.4 million equivalent)
Termss                Standard
Onlending Terms:      (a)   US$11.3 million equivalent to enterprises for up
to 10 years including a grace period of up to 3
years. The GOB will onlend to enterprises
through Agrani Bank, which will administer the
funds on behalf of the GOB, for a fee. The
initial onlending rate wili be 14.5? p.a
(b)   US$0.1 million equivaler' to Agrani Bank for
technical assistance. The GOB will onlend to
Agrani Bank at cost for up to 10 years including
a grace period of up to 3 years.
Project
Descriptions          The project aims tot (a) reduce energy consumption per
unit of output in economically and financially viable
industrial and power plants, thereby reinforcing the
overall industrial sector objectives of higher
efficiency and increased competitiveness; and
(b) promote development of appropriate policies,
technologies and institutional framework to further
strengthen the country's energy rationalization
program. The Project consists of two components: (a)
a line of credit for financing about 50 energy
conservation subprojects; and (b) technical assistance
for furl.-her strengthening of EMU and improving
appraisal capability of Agrani Bank for energy
conservation subprojects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Pr:oject Benefits
and Riskss            The energy conservation investments are expected to
have high financial and economic returns, and in total
would save about 119,000 tons of oil equivalent (toe)
of energy corresponding to about US$8.3 million per
annum at full operation. Over its economic life, the
Project would generate a net foreign exchange saving
of about US$11.1 million in net present value using a
12Z discount rate. The Project would also strengthen
local capabilities in assessing and implementing
energy rationalization measures. Project risks are
related mainly to slow demand, institutional
weaknesses and poor subloan repayments. The risk of
slow build-up of demand is, however, mitigated by a
large pipeline of identified subprojects, small credit
size, and conservatively estimated six-year project
implementation period. Technical assistance is being
provided to address the institutional weaknesses.
Strict financial and economic eligibility criteria
would be set to minimize the risk of subloan payment
defaults.
Estimated Costs
Local      Foregin    Total
---    US$ million---
Energy Conservation Investments            4.8 /a       8.0       12.8
Technical Assist'nce                       0.3          0.5        0.8
Base Cost Estimates                  5.1          8.5       13.6
Price Contingency                          0.5          0.9        1.4
Total Project Cost                   5.6          9.4       15.0
/a Includes US$0.6 million equivalent in duties and taxes.
Financing Plan:                           Local       Foreign    Total
-------US$ million---------
IDA                                        2.5          8.9      11.4
ODA                                        0.1          0.5        0.6
EMU                                        0.1           -         0.1
Enterprises                                2.8           -         2.8
Agrani Bank                                0.1           -         0.l
Total                                5.6          9.4       15.0



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:                               IDA Fiscal Year
89   90   91   92   93   94   95
------------…S$ million      …
Annual:                                       0.5  1.9  3.4  3.2  1.7  0.5  0.2
Cumulative                                    0.5  2.4  5.8  9.0 10.7 11.2 11.4
Economic Rate of Return: 43% (average)



BANGIADESH
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nlo
I.    INTRODUCTION ............................................. . ....... 1
II.    THE  S E=  SECTOR ........................................  2
A. Resource Endowment ...................................    2
B. Energy Development Strategy and Planning .............    2
C. Energy Supply and Consumption ........................    3
D. EL.ergy Prices.                                          5
E. Energy Sector Institutional Framework ................    7
F. Energy Monitoring Unit ............... ...............    7
G. Energy Conservation Coordination Group ...............    9
III. ENERGY CONSERVATION IN INDUsb.Y ..........................    9
A. Industrial Sector Structure ..........................    9
B. Energy Consumption by Industry .......................   11
C. Potential for Energy Conservation ....................   12
D. Energy Savings Measures ...........................     16.
IV.    1THE3 PRO      .............................................  15
A. Project Objectives and Scope .........................   15
B. IDA's Role and Rationale for Involvement .............   15
C. Project Description ..................................   16
1. Institution Strengthening Component ..............   16
2. Energy Conservation Investment Component .........   17
3. Effective Demand for Investments .................   17
D. Environmental Aspects               ..                  18
This report was prepared by Ms. K. Okaido (mission leader), Messrs.
K Pearson and S. Thiyagarajan (Industry Department) and S. Venkataraman
(Consultant) based on an appraisal mission in February/March 1987.
Mr. S. Malik (Resident Mission in Bangladesh) also participated in the
appraisal mission. This report includes the work of a preappraisal mission
to Bangladesh in April/May 1986 led by V. K. Goel.



- vi
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
V. CAPITAL COST. FINAN,.ING PLAN. PRO,CUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS .,                                            19
A. Capital Cost Estimates ................                  19
B. Financing Plan .......................................   20
C. On-lending Arrangements .21
D. Procurement ................,.,.,.,.,..   24
E.  Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit .25
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MNITQRING .26
A.  Project Implementation ...............................   26
B.  Subproject Evaluation and Approval Procedures .27
C. Cost Recovery .28
D.  Reporting and Auditing Requirements .28
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .29
A.  Project Benefits ..................     ............   29
B. Project Risks ..................                         31
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS     ..31
ANNEXES
2-1  Current Financial and Economic Prices of Energy Products
2.2  Energy Sector Institutions (Organization Chart)
3-1  Energy Consumption by Industry for FY85
3-2  List of Audited Plants
4-1   Consulting Services Requirements
W-2  Proposed Training Program
5-1  Estimated Project Cost
5-2  Brief Description of Agrani Bank
5-3  Proposed Allocation and Estimated Disbursement Schedule for IDA
Credit
7-1  Economic Analysis for the Project
7-2  Estimated Foreign Exchange Savings
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



BANGLADESH
INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      The Government of the People's Republic oi Bangladesh (the Govern-
ment, GOB) has requested an IDA Credit of US$11.4 million equivalent to
finance the Industrial Energy Efficiency Project (the Project). The Project
aims to (i) improve energy use efficiency by reducing energy consumption per
unit of output, thereby reinforcing the overall industrial sector objectives
of higher efficiency and increased competitiveness; and (ii) strengthen the
institutional set-up for the development vf the country's energy rationaliza-
tion program.
1.2      Pangladesh's energy policy aims to reduce the country's dependence on
oil imports by accelerating the development and use of domestic natural gas
resources, and by improving energy use efficiency through conservation
measures and appropriate pricing of energy resources. As part of the energy
rationalization program, the Government is implementing an inter-fuel substi-
tution program to replace imported petroleum products with domestically
produced natural gas in the industrial and power sectors. On the energy use
efficiency, the IDA-financed Industrial Energy Efficiency and Refinery Rehab-
ilitation Project (the First Energy Efficiency Project, Credit 1357-BD) has
assisted in the development of a national energy conservation program through,
among others, the establishment of the Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU) responsi-
ble for energy conservation activities, and the carrying out of energy audits
1 46 industrial and power plants.
1.3      Continuing with the efforts initiated under the First Energy
Efficiency Project, the proposed Project would support the national energy
conservation program through two complementary components: (a) a line of
credit to support energy conservation investments in about 50 industrial and
power generation plants; and (b) technical assistance to further strengthen
the technical capabilities of EMU and the project appraisal and supervisior.
capabilities of Agrani Bank, the proposed financial agent for the Project.
The Project would also serve as a vehicle for continuing IDA's dialogue with
the GOB on its energy rationalization program, including policy framework,
institutional arrangements and project selection and evaluation procedures.
1.4      Total project cost is estimated at US$15.0 million, with US$9.4
million or 63X in foreign exchange. The proposed IDA Credit of UJS$11.4
million will cover 76% of the total financing requirement including the entire
foreign exchange needs. Overseas Development Administration (ODA), a British
aid agency, will provide US$0.6 n.lJlion in grant to finance technical assist-
ance to EMU. The remaining financing requirement will be provided by the
enterprises (US$2.8 million), EMU (US$O.1 million) and Agrani Bank (US$0.1
million). The Project would save about 119,000 toe of energy annually, valued
at about US$8.8 million, to the Bangladesh industry.



-2-
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Resource Endowment
2.1      Bangladesh's commercially exploitable energy resources consist of
substantial reserves of natural gas, limited hydro-pjaer potential and a large
base of traditional fuels, in the form of crop residues, animal dung and wood.
Natural gas is the main source of commercial energy, accounting for over 502
of total supply. Estimated recoverable reserves of gas are about 10 trillion
cubic feet (tcf) (244 million toe), sufficient to meet the forecast demand for
another 20 years. Moreover, the prospects are good for increasing the
reserves with the implementation of comprehensive exploration and appraisal
programs. In addition, in Its efforts to reduce dependence on imported energy
and to supplement the domestic supply cf gas, GOB has undertaken, with IDA
assistance, a program of seismic surveys and geological studies to be used in
the preparation of promotional packages aimed at attracting international oil
companies to undertake exploration for oil.
2.2      Hydropower potential is estimated at about 1,500 GWh/year, of which
1,000 GWh/year has been developed. The exploitation of the remaining poten-
tial would flood prime agricultural land and require the relocation of about
30,000 people: consequently its development is not economic in view of the
high costs involved.
2.3      Several thick seams of coal have been recently discovered at minea,le
depths in the Barapukuria area in the west zone. If their exploitation is
proven economic, it would have a profound impact on the future development and
use of domestic and imported energy in Bangladesh. GOB is currently seeking
bilateral assistance to determine the economic viability of the reserves.
2.4      Traditional fuels play a crucial role in meeting Bangladesh's overall
energy needs; however, their supply is diminishing. As a result, the outlook
for Bangladesh is one of continuing dependence on rapidly dwindling fuelwood
supplies and increased reliance on natural gas and imported liquid fuels. To
meet future energy needs, the strategy calls for the more efficient use of
fuels.
B. Eneray Development Strategy and Planning
2.5      The Second Five Year Plan (7Y81-85) emphasized the accelerated devel-
opment of natural gas as a potential substitute for imported oil and petroleum
products which absorbed over 202 of the country's total export earnings in the
1970's. As a result, natural gas production almost doubled during this
period. However, shortages of both foreign and local resources, caused pri-
marily by the underpricing of energy and the absence of a coordinated plan for
channelling foreign assistance to priority investments, impeded the achieve-
ment of the Plan targets. There was a 40Y shortfall in meeting the gas supply
target because of delays in commissioning fertilizer and large power plants.
As a result, there were shortages of power, some of which were met by the
installation of highly inefficient combustion turbines, and surplus supply of
gas.



-3-
2.6      In recognition of the importance of improving the supply of energy to
meet the forecast demand, GOB has accorded high priority to the energy sector
in the Third Five Year Plan (TFYP) (PY86-90). The principal objectives of
TFYP are to: (1) accelerate the development of domestic natural gas resources
to reduce the country's dependence on imported oil; (ii) improve energy use
efficiency through conservation measures and appropriate pricing of energy
resources; (iii) meet the demand for energy at least cost to the economy;
(iv) improve the reliability and quality of power supply, and reduce system
losses; (v) improve the financial performance of energy sector entities; and
(vi) encourage the participation of the private sector in exploration for gas
and oil. Moreover, to underscore its commitment to the development of the
sector, GOB allocated Tk 56 billion (US$1.8 billion equivalent) for invest-
ments in energy under TFYP. The share of energy accounts for 22Z of the total
plan allocation, compared with about 12Z under the Second Five Year Plan, and
is exceeded only by the allocation to the agricultural sector.
2.7      To achieve these objectives, a comprehensive strategy for addressing
the main issues in the sector must be formulated and implemented. This strat-
egy would have to address three main areast resource development and invest-
ment; energy pricing and demand management; and institutional setting. These
issues are being addressed in the proposed Energy Sector Credit. This Project
will address issues of demand management and institutional weaknesses, in line
with the recommendation of Bangladesh's energy assessment, prepared in 1982
and updated in 1984 under the joint World Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment Program,
that energy conservation be given priority.
C. Energy Supply and Consumption
2.8      The estimated per capita commercial energy consumption in Bangladesh
of about 42 kilograms of oil equivalent (kgoe) p.a. is among tha lowest in the
world (about one-fourteenth of the corresponding world average and one-ninth
of the average for low-income countries). Per capita non-commercial energy
consumption, accounted for by traditional biomass sources such as fuelwood,
crop residues, straw, rice husk, jute sticks, and animal wastes, is estimated
at 60 kgoe per year. While traditional biomass energy forms are expected to
remain the predominant energy source, particularly in the rural areas, their
consumption grew at less than 1Z p.a. during PY78-85. Accelerated development
of gas supplies, on the other hand, has led to the rapid growth in commercial
energy utilization of 5.42 p.a. during the same period.
2.9      Bangladesh's commercial energy balance by type of energy, source of
supply and sectoral consumption is summarized in the following table:



-4-
Table 2.1 - Commercial Energy Supply and Consumption
Supply                                  FY80                    FY85
'000 toe    2         '000 toe      Z
Primary Production
Natural Gas                           1,146       36        2,390       56
Hydroelectricity                        205        6          234        5
Petroleum Products                        -        -           22        -
Subtotal                              1,351       42        2,646       61
Net Imports
Crude Oil and Petroleum Products    1,746         55        1,588       37
Coal                                    159        5            66       2
Subtotal                              1,905       60        1,654       39
Change in Stock                         (56)      (2)            5       -
Total Supply                            3,200      100        4,305      100
Less: Sector Use and
Transformation Losses /a        (795)    (25)       (1,376)      68
Consumption
Residential/Commercial                  624       26           700      24
Transport                               468       19          47t       16
Industrial
Fertilizer                            471      20           790       27
Othe: Industries                      742       31          791       27
Other                                   100        4          177        6
Total Consumption                       2,405      100        2L929      100
Sources  Statistical Yearbook of Bangladesh 1986.
/a   The energy sector's own consumption and losses in conversion and trans-
mission at 25%-322 of gross energy supply are high. The problem of high
electricity distribution and transmission losses is being addressed under
the IDA-financed Power Transmission and Distribution Project
(Cr. 1648-BD).
2.)O     Supply.  In FY85, domestic sources accounted for 612 of the total
energy supply, and imports 39Z. As indicated above (para 2.1), natural gas is
the primary source of commercial energy in Bangladesh. Its production grew at
15.82 p.a. during FY80-85 reaching about 260 million standard cubic feet per
day (sefd) in FY85. Natural gas provided about 922 of the energy supply from
domestic sources in PY85. Gas is mostly consumed for power generation (422)
and fertilizer production (342), while other industrial (142), domestic (72)
and commercial (32) uses are also expanding steadily. Hydropower provided the
remaining 82 of domestic energy source. Petroleum products accounted for 952
of imported energy with coal accounting for the remaining 5X.



-5-
2.11     With ini-reased gas availability and the GOb's pricing policies, the
country's import dependence in the energy sector has been significantly
reduced during the past 5 years from about 602 in FY80 to 392 in FY85. The
share of natural gas in the total commercial energy supply grew from 36Z in
FY80 to 562 in Fy85. Conversely, the share of crude oil and petroleum pro-
ducts declined from 552 in FY80 to 372 in FY85, although it is still a
dominant source of energy in the transportation sector. Despite this decline
in the relative importance of petroleum products and the global decline in
petroleum prices, petroleum imports continue to make substantial claims on the
country's limited foreign exchange earnings. In FY85, net oil imrorts
amounted to about US$346 million, equivalent to 352 of the colntry's total
export earnings.
2.12     Consumption.  Between FY80 and FY85 the demand for commercial energy
grew at 42 p.a. Industry is the single largest user of energy and its energy
consumption grew at a slirhtly higher rate of 5.42 p.a. due to the large
increase in the natural gas consumption by the fertilizer subsector, with the
commissioning of the Ashuganj project in 1983. The rest of the industry
stayed at about the same energy use level. The increase in industry's share
in commercial energy consumption from 512 in FY80 to 542 in FY85 was offset by
declines in the residential, commercial and transport sectors. If commercial
energy consumption is to grow at a similar rate as in the FY80-85 period,
Bangladesh would require large investments in the energy sector or have to
increase imports to meet its future needs. Efforts will have to be made
therefore to improve energy use efficiency and thereby reduce energy consump-
tion in order to promote the country's development and improve the balance of
payrents situation.
D. Energy Prices
2.13     Current financial and economic prices of different energy products in
Bangladesh are presented in Annex 2-1 and summarized belows



Table 2.2 - Current Energy Prices
Retail Price /a      Economic Price lb
Petroleum Products                  Tk/lt     US$/t             US$/t
Gasoline                          13.20      572                199
Kerosene                           6.87      274                175
Diesel                             6.90      256                164
Fuel Oil                           4.70      163               111
Natural Gas                         Tk/mcf    US$/mcf            US$/mcf
Power                             24.82      0.80              0.96
Fertilizer                        24.82      0.80              0.89
Other Industry                    52.14      1.68               1.57
Electricity                         Tk/KWh    USJ/KWh /c         US¢/KWh
Industrial
Jute/Textile (11 kv)             2.50      9.0               9.1
Other (LV)                       3.10     10.3               8.2
/a   Current prices effective since September 1987.
/b   Economic prices are border prices for petroleum products and long run
marginal cost for natural gas and electricity estimated by IDA staff.
The prices of biomass-derived fuels are determined in the market place. The
prices of all commercial energy are set by the GOB. Natural gas and
electricity have differential prices for different classes of consumers, but
other energy products have uniform prices for all classes of consumers
throughout the country. Petroleum product prices in Bangladesh have always
been high. As shown in the Table above, retail petroleum product prices
substantially exceed their economic (border) prices. Among various petroleum
products, gasoline price is the highest relative to respective economic
prices. On the other hand, gas prices, particularly for bulk users (power and
fertilizer), remain well below (about 55Z) the long run marginal cost (LRHC)
of supply. Electricity tariffs, particularly for residential and commercial
users, are low at about 602 of LRHC.
2.14     Energy prices should be set at least at their economic levels, both
to encourage investment in the development of domestic energy resources and to
improve energy use efficiency. Energy pricing has been one of the principal
issues in IDA's dialogue with the GOB under the various energy sector
projects. As part of the agreement under the Second Gas Development Project
(Credit 1586-BD), gas prices have been raised several times. The GOB has
further undertaken to adjust the gas prices beginning July 1987, based on the
LRMC of sup!.y including an appropriate depletion allowance. Electricity
tariffs have also been increased several times during the past few years. A
proposed Energy Sector Credit would, inter alia, further address the energy



-7-
price issue, focussing initially on natural gas and power prices. Both the
levels and structure of tariffs will be reviewed to ensure that an adequate
share oi future energy sector investment needs are met from internal cash
generation and that the tariff structure reflects more closely the long-run
economic cost of supply to different consumer groups.
2.15     With regard to petroleum products, the Government's policy is to
maintain retail prices stable despite fluctuations in international petroleum
product prices. Bangladesh Petroleum Corporation (BPC) provides a buffer
between international and domestic prices, and absorbs the price fluctuations
through its transfer prices. The losses which BPC accumulated when inter-
national prices were higher than BPC's transfer prices during the early 1980s
are now being offset by profits made by maintaining transfer prices unadjusted
to the low international prices. The GOB would ascertain that international
oil prices are stabilizea and examine all implications (including the effect
on government revenues) before it decides to adjust retail prices to the
current low price levels.
E. Energy Sector Institutional Framework
2.16     Responsibility for energy policy and program for commercial fuels is
shared between the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) and Plan-
ning Commission. MEMR is primarily concerned with energy development and
utilization, while the Planning Commission is concerned with coordination,
integrated energy planning and policy ma:king (Annex 2-2). Non-commercial
fuels are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. On the
operational side, responsibilities for commercial energy resources are vested
in the following public sector entities under MEMRs (i) Bangladesh Petroleum
Corporation (BPC) for import of crude oil and refined products, and refining
and marketing of petroleum products; (ii) Bangladesh Oil and Gas Corporation
(Petrobangla) for exploration, production, transmission and distribution of
natural gas; (iii) Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB) for generation,
transmission and distribution of electric power; (iv) Rural Electrification
Board for distribution of electricity in rural areas through a system of
cooperatives; (v) Bangladesh Petroleum Institute for research and training in
the petroleum sector; and (vi) Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU) for policy coor-
dination, planning, promotion and monitoring of energy conservation program
(para 2.17).
F. Energy Monitoring Unit
2.17     Recognizing the importance of energy conservation for Bangladesh,
IDA, through the energy efficiency component of the Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation Project, supported the GOB's efforts in the develop-
ment of a national energy conservation program for the industrial and power
sectors. The program included establishment of institutional framework for
energy conservation and carrying out of energy audits in major energy consum-
ing enterprises.  As part of these efforts, the Energy Monitoring Unit (EMU)
was set up within MEMR in January 1983. The primary objective of EMU is to
develop, initiate and carry out the national energy conservation program in
order to improve energy use efficiency in the industrial and power sectors.



-8-
2.18     EMU's main responsibilities include policy coordination, planning,
promotion, provision of technical assistance and training and monitoring of
energy conservation activities throughout the country, such as tot (i) act as
a coordinating agency for all activities designed to improve energy use effi-
ciency; (ii) formulate policies and programs for energy conservation; (iii)
carry out energy audits of major energy-using industries to identify their
energy savings potential; (iv) appraise measures for capturing the identified
savings and provide assistance in implementing those measures; (v) organize
and conduct promotional seminars to increase aw'areness of the industry and
government officials about the benefits of energy conservation; (vi) develop a
library of technical literature on energy conservation; (vii) establish and
publicize standards and targets for improving energy use by industry/products;
and (viii) make analysis, by subsector, on energy savings potential to provide
a basis for policy formulation by the Government for long-term energy conser-
vation program.
2.19     EMU's performance under the First Energy Efficiency Project has been
mixed. To develop and supplement in-house expertise in carrying out the
functions indicated above, EMU engaged the services of foreign consultants.
With their assistance and that of local firms which worked in collaboration
with the foreign consultants, EMU has successfully prepared a national energy
conservation program and carried out energy audits (para 3.9). It has also
conducted a limited number of promotional seminars for the jute, textile and
sugar industries.
2.20     EMU's institutional development, however, has been less than planned
due to a number of constraints. As a project entity, EMU continues to remain
on the development budget with a temporary tenure and has not become a regular
agency under Bangladesh's revenue budget. In the absence of long-term career
prospects, it has failed, in many cases, to attract high-caliber staff. There
were initial delays in the appointment of its Director and other staff members
and for some periods the post of Director was vacant. However, in June 1986,
an experienced and well-qualified professional took over as EMU's Director.
Assurance was obtained from GOB during negotiations that a Director of EMU
with appropriate qualifications would be maintained. To enhance EMU's
institutional development, GOB has provided for the transfer of EMU from the
development budget to the revenue budget in the proposed Government budget for
FY1988/89. Thp transfer, effective July 1, 1988 will be a condition of credit
effectiveness for the Project. The proposed Project will also address other
issues relating to EMU's institutional weaknesses (para 4.5).
2.21     At present, EMU has 40 staff, including 15 professionals, although it
is authorized to have 56 staff including 17 professionals. The number of
support staff has been reduced during the last 12 months from 34 to 25. EMU's
size will be kept small at about the current level of 40 staff. Its capabil-
ities in the area of promotion, policy/program analysis and data management
will be strengthened mainly through reassignment/training. To keep the size
of its staff small and to provide quality service, EMU would seek outside
consultant assistance in carrying out some of its major activities, parti-
cularly training, promotion and technical assistance in the implementation of
energy conservation measures (para 4.6).



G. Energy Conservation Coordinat'on Group (ECCG)
2.22     To provide guidance to EMU and to ensure coordination and cooperation
of concerned ministries and agencies, ECCG was also formed, under the Chair-
manship of the Secretary of MEMR. The membership of ECCG includes senior
officials responsible for the industry and/or energy sectcrs in the Planning
Commission, Ministry of Industries, BPDB and public sector corporations
responsible for chemicals, jute, steel, textile and sugar industries. Agrani
Bank, a proposed financial agent under the Project (para 5.8), will also be
represented in the ECCG. ECCG has not been very effective mainly because the
membera were very often represented by lower level officials with less author-
ity to speak for the agency they represented. Assurance was obtained from GOB
during negotiationts that members themselves will be required to participate in
the ECCG on a regular basis.
III. ENERGY CONSERVATION IN INDUSTRY
A. Industrial Sector Structure
3.1      Bangladesh's manufacturing sector is quite small, accounting only for
about 12X of GDP and 8X of total employment. The modern manufacturing sector,
consisting of public sector and large-scale private units, generates 582 of
value added but employs only 182 of the manufacturing labor force. Small and
cottage industries account for most of the employment (822) in the sector and
the remaining 422 of total value added. The public sector's share in industry
has declined continuously since mid-1975 and currently constitutes about 402
of total fixed assets (about 160 enterprises) in the modern manufacturing
sector, compared to about 902 (about 800 enterprises) in 1972. This shift is
a result of the GOB policies to encourage a more active role by the private
sector in industrial development. Public sector enterprises (PSEs) play a
significant role in the chemicals, iron and steel, cement, pulp and paper and
sugar subsectors. The private sector is more active in food processing
(except for sugar), beverages, leather products, pharmaceuticals and light-
engineering industries. Textile/jute and tea industries are in both public
and private sectors.
3.2      During the FY80-85 period, the manufacturing sector grew at an
average rate of 10.92 p.a. The following table shows contribution of differ-
ent subsectors to manufacturing value added in FY80 and 85.



-10-
Table 3.1 - Sectoral Structure of Manufacturing Sector
Value Added
Subsector                     FY80                        FY85
Million Tk    2           Million Tk      2
Food, beverage, tobacco          3,040     23.3            4,991       22.8
Textiles/jute                    5,331     40.8            7,292       33.3
Pulp and paper                     238      1.8              666        3.0
Chemicals fertilizer             2,236     17.1            4,419       20.2
Non-metallic
mineral products /a              306      2.4              401        1.8
Metals/metal products              731      5.6              967        4.4
Other                            1,179      9.0            3,187       14.5
TOTAL                           13,061    100.0           21,923      100.0
Source:  Statistical Yearbook of Bangladesh 1986.
/a   Includes cement, bricks and ceramics.
3.3      Textiles/jute remained as the most important subsector, although
its share in the industrial value added declined from 412 in PY80 to 332 in
FY8S. Value-added in this subsector is divided roughly between jute and
cotton manufacturing. The cotton textile industry is important in substi-
tuting imports and providing over one million jobs, about half of all the
manufacturing employm.ent.  The jute subsector is important because of its
export earnings; in FY5S, jute exports earned about US$416 million in for-
eign exchange, or about 422 of total merchandise exports. Jute mills
provide about 302 of total manufacturing employment in medium- to large-
scale mills. Both textiles and jute industries, particularly in the public
sector, face serious sectoral issues of autonomy, high costs due to
over-staffing, excess capacity, production inefficiency and high debts,
foreign competition in the case of textiles and low prices in the case of
jute, etc.
3.4      The food beverage and tobacco subsector is also important, contri-
buting in FY85 about 23S to the value added. The important industries
under the food subsector are rice milling, sugar and tea, all of which
except sugar and some tea growers are in the private sector and growing at
a moderate rate. The sugar industry, however, is facing problems related
to cane availability and low production efficiency.
3.5      The chemical subsector had the fastest growth during FY80-85
mainly due to expansion in fertilizer industry, which nearly doubled the
value added during the period. Making use of the large and low cost
natural gas resource, Bangladesh now produces all its nitrogenous fertil-
izer requirements for the fast growing agricultural sector, substituting
fertilizer imports. The fertilizer industry is important in generating
significant foreign exchange savings estimated at over US$100 million per
year and will in addition have potential for exports in future. This sub-
sector is relatively well managed and profitable.



-11-
B. Energy Consumption bv Industry
3.6      As indicated, industry is the single largest user of energy in
Bangladesh. In FY85, industry consumed 1,581 toe (62X) of commercial
energy and 953 toe (382) of traditional biomass energy, concentrated
largely in the fertilizers, pulp and paper, food, cement and bricks sub-
sectors. Annex 3-1 gives details of energy consumption by various
industrial subsectors in FY85. Fertilizer was the most energy intensive
industrial subsector in FY85, accounting for about 402 of commercial energy
consumption in industry. Food and agricultural products accounted for 15Z,
non-metallic mineral products 10?, pulp and paper 102, jute 62, and
textiles 52. The rice and sugar industries are the largest users of tradi-
tional biomass energy, representing about 802 of the total biomass energy
consumption in industry.
3.7      Commercial energy consumption in industry by source in FY80 and
FY85 is shown in the following table:
Table 3.2 - Commercial Energy Consumption in Industry by Source
FY80                   FY85
'000 toe    z         '000 toe      I
Natural Gas                             644      53          1,115      70
Petroleum Products                      337      28            249      16
Coal                                    158      13             66       4
Purchased Electricity /a                 73       6            151      10
TOTAL                                 1,v12    100           1,581     100
Sources Statistical Yearbook of Bangladesh 1986.
/a Converted at 307 toe/GWh, assuming 27.52 thermal conversion efficiency.
3.8      Natural gas plays an increasingly important role as industrial
energy source. In FY80, natural gas--including the gas used as feedstock
in the fertilizer sector, accounted for 532, and petroleum products for
282, of commercial energy consumption in industry. In FY85, however,
petroleum products consumption declined sharply to 162 of total commercial
energy use by industry while the share of natural gas increased to 702.
Electricity production is also increasingly based on natural gas;
electricity generated from natural gas increased from 65? of the total
thermal electricity in FY80 to 782 in FY85. In the Eastern Zone where
natural gas is available, electricity is generated predominantly based on
natural gas. In the Western Zone, however, most of the electricity is
generated from petroleum products since there is no natural gas supply or
hydropower potential in the area.



-12-
C. Potential for Energy Conservation
3.9      Even at Bangladesh's low level of commercial energy consumption
(about 42 kgoe per capita), there is substantial scope for improving energy
use efficiency, particularly for the small number of large industrial and
power units where the bulk of the consumption is concentrated. As
indicated earlier, EMU has carried out energy audits during 1986 in 42
energy-using industrial enterprises in the fertilizer, pulp and paper,
cement, sugar, textile, jute, food, steel, and nonmetallic minerals
subsectors; and in four power plants. The number of plants audited and
their energy consumption in FY85 by subsector is presented in the table
below.
Table 3.3 - Energy Consumption in Audited Plants (FY85)
Number of                       Coverage of
Audited         Energy       Subsector Energy
Industry                           Plants        Consumption       Consumption
'000 toe    Z            (Z)
Public Sector
Food & Agricultural Products          8             25    2.2             3
Jute                                  4             39    3.5            34
Textiles                              5             14    1.3            16
Pulp and Paper                        4            130   11.7            83
Fertilizers                           4            777   70.1           100
Nonmetallic Mineral Products          2             42    3.8            10
Steel and Metal Products              1             44    4.0            66
28         1,071   96.7             44
Private Sector
Food and Agriculture Products         7              4    0.4
Textiles                              1             16    1.4              7
Nonmetallic Mineral Products          5             16    1.4             4
Others                                1              1    0.1             1
14            37    3.3              2
Sub-total Industry                   42          1,108  100.0            41
Power Plants (Public Sector)          4            684                   67
Total                              46          1,792                   48
/a Includes both commercial and traditional biomass energy.
3.10     The plants audited accounted for about 41Z and 67Z of total energy
consumption in the industrial and power sectors respectively in FY85. From
an energy consumption perspective, the industry can be divided into two
groupst (i) sectors with a small number of plants each consuming large



-13-
quantities of energy; and (ii) sectors with a relatively large number of
plants consuming small quantities of energy. The first group includes
fertilizer, pulp and paper, steel, cement, glass, and power plants, which
together account for over 80Z of total commercial energy consumption by
industry and power subsectors. All of the major facilities in these six
subsectors were audited. The second group includes sugar, textiles,
bricks jute, rice, tea, and others. For this group, less than 10 of the
total nwmber of plants were audited. Thirty-two or 702 of the audited
plants are public sector enterprises in fertilizer, power, steel, pulp and
paper, textile, jute, sugar, cement, and glass, subsectors. The remaining
14 plants in textiles, tea, rice, bricks, and ceramics are in the private
sector (Annex 3-2).
3.11     The following table shows estimated energy savings potential in
the industrial sector, including both commercial and traditional sources of
energy, based on the energy audits carried out, as described above.
Table 3.4 - Energy Savings Potential /a
Savings
Potential as
Total Energy       Energy Savings Potential        I of Total
Consumption Conservation Cogeneration Total Consumption
-'----------------o000 toe…------------------         (Z)
Food and agricul-
tural products    947.5            85.3         11.9       97.2      10.3
Jute                 114.7             8.2        53.2       61.4       53.5
Textiles              88.0             7.3        39.1       46.4       52.7
Pulp and Paper       156.6            28.3         2.1       30.4       19.4
Fertilizers          777.3            71.4         -         71.4        9.2
Nonmetallic
mineral products  434.2             45.2         -         45.2       10.4
Steel and metal
products            66.3            10.1         -         10.1      15.2
Others                98.2            25.7        14.3       40.0       40.7
total Industry  2,682.8            281.5       120.6      402.1      15.0
Power              1,019.9            41.9         -         41.9        4.1
TOTAL            3,702.7           323.4       120.6      444.0      12.0
2 of Total           100.0             8.7         3.3       12.0
/a Based on FY85 levels of energy consumption.
The potential for energy savings in industry at the FY85 energy consumption
level was estimated at about 323,400 toe p.a. including about 41,900 toe
p.A. in power plants. About 602 of this potential would be achieved from



-14-
commercial energy conservation and the remaining 40Z through savings on
traditional biomass energy sources such as bagasse, rice husk, fuelwood,
etc. In addition, cogeneration measures have potential energy savings of
about 120,600 toe p.a. Since EMU's consultants completed a large number of
energy audits primarily in the public sector, EMU would in the future shift
its emphasis from energy audits to implementation of identified conserva-
tion measures, although it will continue to carry out energy audits with
its own resources, on a limited basis, in subsectors left uncovered,
particularly in the private sector.
D. Energy Savings Measures
3.12     The energy efficiency improvement measures identified by energy
audits fall into three broad categories:
(a)  Housekeeping/quick-fix type of measures, including operation and
maintenance improvement programs. These are the major types of
energy saving measures requiring small investments, capable of
rapid implementation and having short (usually less than one year)
payback periods. The measures typically include repairs or
replacement of insulation, steam traps, pumps, valves, instrumen-
tation, etc. These are to be implemented in an early stage of the
energy conservation program. Costs are low ranging between
US$1,000 and US$30,000, with an average of about US$5,000.
(b) Combustion control/retrofit measures. These measures range from
use of portable analyzers to adoption of sophisticated automatic
controls with in-line analyzers (justified only for the larger
facilities). Other retrofit techniques include condensate
recovery, air preheaters, economizers, etc. These measures have
large potential in industries with boilers, kilns and process
heaters. Costs are moderate ranging from US$5,000 to US$0.8
million, with an average of about US$50,000.
(c)  Industry-specific process improvements.  These are based on
capital-intensive technologies with long implementation periods
which in most cases may not be justified at today's energy prices.
Typical examples are conversion of wet to dry process in cement
manufacturing and increasing the stages of evaporation in sugar
mills.
The proposed Project would support mainly measures in housekeeping/quick
fix and retrofit/combustion control categories described in (a) and (b)
above.
3.13     In addition to the above energy-saving measures, two other
options, fuel substitution and cogeneration technology, have also been
considered. Fuel substitution generally does not involve energy savings
because the energy input to the process remains about the same while the
fuel is replaced by a more economic one. In cogeneration technology, both
energy saving and fuel switching take place. It carries a significant



-15-
energy saving potential in Bangladesh--about 120,600 toe p.a., or about 5Z
of total energy consumed by industry. Cogeneration permits simultaneous
production of electricity and thermal energy, thus achieving a combined
efficiency higher than in utility po_er stations. This is due to the fact
that much of the energy lost in condensers and stacks in utility power
systems can be recovered as process heat for use in industrial facilities.
In addition to improved efficiency and related financial and economic
benefits, cogeneration in Bangladesh, by allowing captive power generation,
would permit a significant improvement in the reliability of electricity
supply to industrial plants. This improvement will allow a substantial
reduction in down time, thus reducing production costs and increasing
output. Cogeneration has already been adopted by most of the fertilizer
and pulp/paper plants. Significant potential has been identified in the
jute, textiles, and food industries. However, cogeneration requires
relatively larger investments. A cogeneration scheme is often developed
for more than one plant because it requires a minimum level of power demand
of about 2 MW to be economical. It thus requires a longer lead time to
deal with technical and institutional issues and is therefore normally
implemented in the second stage of an energy conservation program. The
Project would therefore support only a pilot cogeneration program to
demonstrate its benefits and resolve related issues.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. ProJect Objectives and Scope
4.1      The proposed Project will assist Bangladesh in reducing energy
consumption per unit of output in economically and financially viable
industrial and power enterprises and thereby reinforcing the overall indus-
trial sector objectives of higher efficiency and increased competitiveness.
It will also promote development of appropriate policies, technologies and
institutional framework to further strengthen the country's energy ration-
alization program. The Project would consist of the following two
componentss
(a) Institution Strengthening Component - technical assistance to
enhance capabilities of EMU and project appraisal capability of
Agrani Bank; and
(b) Investment Component - a line of credit to finance energy
conservation investments in selected industrial enterprises and
power plants.
B. IDA's Role and Rationale for Involvement
4.2      The most important measure to induce energy conservation in
general is to set energy prices at levels that reflect long-term economic
opportunity costs. Petroleum products prices in Bangladesh are well above
the international price levels. Issues of natural gas and power prices are



-16-
being addressed under the proposed Energy Sector Credit. However, to
complement the pricing policy, a promotional campaign is needed to increase
public awareness of the potential benefits of energy conservation. There
is also a need for training of local personnel to increase their technical
expertise in energy conservation investments because these investments are
complex, typically consisting of a large number of discrete additions/modi-
fications to existing facilities, and are therefore.not easily identifiable
by non-specialists. They also require intensive studies and in many cases
innovative technology. In the absence of these programs, energy conserva-
tion has received only limited attention in the past inspite of the signi-
ficant potential estimated above (para 3.11).
4.3      Under the proposed Project, IDA will assist in developing a set of
comprehensive measures including promotion, training, and technical and
financial assistance necessary for the implementation of energy conserva-
tion measures, as well as further development of the national energy
conservation program, including policies and strategies, institutional
arrangements and project selection and evaluation. Energy conservation is
important to Bangladesh because: (i) it reduces waste of scarce resources
and decreases petroleum imports for the country; and (ii) reduction in
energy consumption per unit of output improves efficiency and competitive-
ness of the enterprises. Also, reduction in energy demand per unit of
output will alleviate energy-related constraints in the country's future
expansion. The plants also derive general improvements in productivity
through better housekeeping, maintenance and introduction of better know-
how and technology associated with the energy conservation measures.
4.4      The proposed project involves two sectors, namely, industry and
energy, and is consistent with IDA's strategy in Bangladesh in these
sectors. In industry, it complements the policy to improve the efficiency
and competitiveness of the industry. In energy, the Project supports the
strategy of improving energy use efficiency. The Project would also be a
vehicle for continuing IDA's dialogue with the GOB on the policies and
strategies for its energy rationalization program.
C. Project Description
1. Institutional Strengthening Component
4.5      The Project will provide financing for EMU to:  (a) carry out
promotional activities; (b) carry out a training program for EMU and Agrani
Bank staff, energy managers and operational/maintenance personnel of
enterprises, and staff of technical institutes and local consulting organi-
zations; (c) provide technical assistance to enterprises in the implementa-
tion of energy conservation measures; (d) prepare studies and a data base
to support the national energy conservation program. The project will also
provide financing to Agrani Bank for strengthening project appraisal
capability, especially in the financial and economic analyses of energy
conservation investments.



-17-
4.6      To supplement EMU's expertise and at the same time assist EMU in
developing its own capabilities so that it would be able to undertake these
activities on its own in the long run, services of foreign and local
consultants will be obtained on a short term basis in the area of training
and promotion, data analysJs and processing, and energy conservation
project implementation including cogeneration. In all, about 16 manmonths
of foreign and 11 manmonths of local consultancy is proposed for EMU
(Annex 4-1). A senior economist will be hired on the EMU staff to work, in
collaboration with the Government, on the formulation of a policy,
legislative, regularity and incentive framework necessary to encourage
energy conservation. In addition to the on-the-job training, EMU will
organize, with the assistance of foreign consultants, formal training
(within the country and abroad) of EMU and Agrani Bank staff as well as
energy managers of the industrial enterprises and staff of technical and
consulting organizations, to improve their technical and managerial
capabilities in the energy conservation (Annex 4-2). Under the Third Small
Scale Industry Project (Credit 1065-BD), Agrani Bank has gained experience
in the appraisal of small and medium-sized subprojects, although its loan
recovery performance has been poor, reflecting a pervasive problem in
Bangladesh's financial sector (part 5.5). In order to strengthen further
its project appraisal and superviiion capabilities in energy conservation
investment, in particular in economiic analysis, Agrani Bank will have 6
manmonths of foreign consulting sera ces.  "hese foreign consultants will
introduce, among others, use of border prices for project inputs and
outputs and help improve quality of economic and financial rate of return
analysis.
2. Energy Conservation Investment Component
4.7      The Project will provide a line of credit to finance energy
conservation investments in the industrial and power sectors. The line of
credit will enable implementation of about 50 energy conservation sub-
projects, in particular those identified by energy audits conducted under
the first Energy Efficiency Project. The subprojects will primarily be for
housekeeping, quick-fix, combustion control and retrofit measures
(para 3.12). These would involve installation of equipment and materials
for insulation, heat exchangers, economizers, waste heat recovery, process
monitoring and control, repairs and maintenance, etc., and to a limited
extent for fuel substitution. These measures would also wake the existing
technology/machinery more efficient. The Project will also finance one
pilot project in cogeneration to demonstrate its benefits and resolve
related issues (para 3.13).
3. Effective Demand for Investments
4.8      As indicated (para 3.9), during energy audits, 46 energy
conservation subprojects were identified (Annex 3-2). Thep'. projects are
for large- and medium-sized industrial and power plants primarily in the
public sector where energy consumption is concentrated (para 3.10). The
investment required for these subprojects inc'uding cogeneration was
estimated at US$16.1 million in November 1987 prices. In addition, the
consultants who carried out the audits estimated that the investment
requirement for unaudited plants, which are primarily in the private
sector, would be about US$5 million. The potential demand for energy
conservation investments would therefore be about US$21.1 million.



-18-
4.9      Most of the plants audited expressed strong interest in implement-
ing identified energy conservation measures. For very small investments,
some firms (e.g. in ceramics) have already started implementing recommended
measures with their own funds. The proposed Project would only support
energy conservation investments in plants whose long-term economic and
financial viability can be demonstrated. For example, long-term economic
viability of the steel and sugar industries is in questiotn. Sectors such
as jute and textiles, although economicAlly important for the country, are
experiencing sectoral problems (para 3.3). Therefore, unless an overall
sectoral restructuring program is developed and carried out, energy conser-
vation measures in these sectors will not be very effective. Some enter-
prises are also facing financial difficulties and many are in default in
paying their obligations to the banking sector.
4.10     The mission reviewed all the potential subprojects in the light of
the above considerations, and found some of them unsuitable for financing
because (a) the long-term economic viability of the enterprise or the
subsector was questionable (e.g. steel and sugar mills); (b) some sectors
(e.g. jute, textiles) are experiencing broader sectoral problems; and (c)
poor creditworthiness of some of the enterprises will not allow them to
participate in the program. Based on these considerations, the effective
demand for investments in the audited plants has been estimated at about
70X of the potential demand. for unaudited plants, due to the greater
uncertainty, the effective demand has been estimated at 302 of the
potential demand. Based on these ratios, the investment requirement for
the subprojects to be supported under the Project has been conservatively
estimated at US$12.8 million in November 1987 prices.
4.11     Subproject Ripeline.  For the energy conservation measures, nine
public sector enterprises in the fertilizer, glass and power plants are
likely to be supported under the Project. About US$4 million (about 35? of
the Credit amount) would be provided to finance these investments. In
addition, a cogeneration project for a private complex of three
jute/textile mills is expected to be supported. This subproject was iden-
tified during IDA's appraisal. EMU's preappraisal in March 1987 and
further review jointly by IDA and EMU in June 1987 indicated the Pro4ect's
technical and economic viability. About US$3 million (about 26? of the
Credit amount) would be provided to finance this subproject. It is
expected that about 25-30 subprojects will be from the audited plants. The
remaining 20-25 would be from other plants, mostly in the private sector
where measures can be implemented because of similarities in their
processes with the audited plants.
D. Environmental Aspects
4.12     Experience has shown that energy conservation projects in general
are either environmentally neutral or have a positive impact by decreasing
effluent discharges. No environmental issues are thus expected under the
proposed Project. Assurances will be obtained that all subprojects will be
designed, implemented and operated with due regard to appropriate safety
and environmental standards satisfactory to IDA.



-19-
V. CAPITAL COST, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Capital Cost Estimates
5.1      Total financing requirement of the Project, including price
contingencies, is estimated at US$15.0 million, of which US$9.4 million or
632 will be in foreign exchange, as presented in Annex 5-1 and summarized
in the following table:
Capital Cost Estimates
US$ million Equivalent    I of Total
Local   Foreign  Total    Base  Cost
Energy Conservation Investment /a
Equipment, Materials & Spares Lb   2.3        7.3       9.6        70.6
Licensing & Engineering              1.2      0.7       1.9        14.0
Civil Works & Construction          1.3       -         1.3         9.5
Subtotal                          4.8       8.0     12.8         94.1
Technical Assistance
Training                            0.0       0.2      0.2          1.5
Consultancy                         0.1       0.3      0.4          3.0
Administrative Expenses /c           0.2      -         0.2         1.4
Subtotal                          0.3       0.5      0.8          5.9
Total Base Cost                        5.1      8.5      13.6       100.0
Price Contingency (11Z)             0.5       0.9      1.4
Total Financing Required (rounded)   5.6        9.4      15.0
Z of Total                           37.4      62.6   100.0
/a Estimated on the basis of already identified subprojects.
lb Includes US$0.6 million in duties and taxes.
/c Includes local transport, office equipment, facilities and supplies,
and general and administrative expenses related to technical assistance
component.



-20-
5.2      The base cost estimates are in November 1987 prices.    stimates of
the energy conservation investment component are based on the a.ilysis of
46 subprojects identified by audits and reviewed by the mission. Capital
costs of individual subprojects will be established on a case-by-case basis
as the subprojects are appraised. Estimates of the technical assistance
component are based on 16 manmonths of foreign and 11 manmonths of local
consulting for EMU, 6 manmonthe of foreign consulting for Agrani (Annex
4-1) and the formal training program as detailed in Annex 4-2. Price
contingencies for local costs are 102 in FY88, 92 in FY89 and FY90, and 82
in each year thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs are 5.62
for FY88, 5.42 for FY89, -0.32 in FY90 and 1.75? in each year thereafter.
B. Pro' ct Financing Plan
5.3      The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.4 million would meet 76? of the
t tal financing requirements of the Project. Under the energy conservation
investment component, IDA will contribute US$11.3 million (80?) and the
beneficiary enterprises, the remaining US$2.8 million (20?). For the tech-
nical assistance component, IDA will provide US$0.1 million (112) for
Agrani Bank and Overseas Development Administration (ODA), a British aid
agency, will provide US$0.6 million (67?) in grant for EMU.  EMU, through
their allocated annual budget, and Agrani Bank will contribute the remain-
ing US$0.2 million (222) to finance administrative expenses associated with
technical assistance component. The financing plan for the Project is
summarized below:
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total       2
- US$ million equivalent ----
Energy Conservation Investments
IDA                                  2.5         8.8       11.3       75.3
Enterprises                           2.8         -         2.8       18.7
Subtotal                        5.3         8.8       14.1       94.0
Technical Assistance
IDA                                   -          0.1        0.1        0.7
ODA                                   0.1        0.5        0.6        4.0
EMH                                   0.1         -         0.1        0.7
Agrani Bank                           0.1         -         0.1        0.6
Subtotal                        0.3         0.6        0.9        6.0
Total Project Cost                    5.6        9.4       15.0      100.0



-21-
C. On-lending Arrangements
5.4      The proposed IDA Credit of US$11.4 million equivalent will be
extended to GOB at IDA's standard terms. For the institution strengthening
component, the GOB will onlend US$0.1 million equivalent to Agrani Bank to
finance consulting services at cost, i.e. IDA terms except that the
repayment term would be 10 years including a grace period of up to 3 years.
For the energy conservation investment component, the GOB will onlend
US$11.3 million equivalent to enterprises through an agency arrangement
with Agrani Bank.
5.5      Rationale for Agency Arrangement.  Because Bangladesh's financial
system is experiencing severe loan recovery and other problems, an agency
arrangement rather than on-lending through a financial intermediary will be
used for the Project on an interim basis until financial sector reforms are
initiated and Agrani Bank's collection performance under an on-going Small
Scale Industry Project improves. During the late 1970s and early 19809,
institutional credit was expanded very rapidly in Bangladesh to finance
both agriculture and industry without commensurate development of the
nationalized commercial banks and other public financial institutions,
which have been characterized by weak management, deficient internal proce-
dures, inadequate capital and limited autonomy. Much of the expanded
lending followed Government directives without adequate credit analysis.
The banks emphasized disbursements rather than recoveries, accounting and
collection systems were weak, and loan recoveries fell to very low levels.
Widespread failure to repay debt, exacerbated by Government signals seeming
to condone default, has created a crisis in the financial aector which
threatened the viability of several institutions. The Government responded
to the crisis by establishing a commission which recommended banking
reforms in mid-1986, initiating measures which significantly increased
agricultural and industrial credit recoveries during late 1986/87 and
seeking assistance from the IMF and IDA.
5.6      Reasonable progress has been made since late 1986 toward solving
these issues. The report of the Government's Commission on Money, Banking
and Credit has been finalized. A Bank green cover financial sector report
on Bangldesh has been prepared, which would provide the basis for a
comprehensive financial sector reform program tc be supported under a
proposed Financial Sector Credit (FSC) in FY89. A series of legal and
administrative changes have been implemented, such as denying new credit to
defaulters, barring them from holding local office; taking over large
projects; and passing a new loan recovery law. These and other measures,
partially supported by the 13th Imports Program Credit (IPC-13) and the
proposed Industrial Sector Credit ISC), have led to significant increases
in debt recoveries. During the first half of FY87 agricultural credit
recoveries increased about 35Z, and industrial term loan collections more
than doubled compared to the same period during the previous years.



-22-
5.7      One component of the proposed financial sector reform program is
reclassification of loans, adequate provisions for bad and doubtful debt
and recapitalization of the nationalized commercial banks. Without these
re'orms, which will take several years, it would be difficult to ascertain
the creditworthiness of Agrani Bank or any other nationalized commercial
bank (NCB). It would be inappropriate to use any of these financial insti-
tutions as full intermediaries taking credit risk before their collection
ratios improve further, their portfolio qualities are made transparent and
adequate recapitalization is carried out.
5.8      Until the financial sector reform process is initiated, an
alternative arrangement is necessary to enable public and private sector
subprojects proposed for support under the Project to be appraised effi-
ciently on behalf of the Government. Since it is Government policy to
shift industry towards a more market-oriented system supported by the
proposed ISC, it is also important that individual subprojects be reviewed
on their merits and approved in accordance with appropriate appraisal
procedures rather than through Government directives. Agrani Bank will
therefore act as an agency to review, approve and supervise subprojects and
administer Credit funds on behalf of GOB. Agrani Bank, Bangladesh's third
largest commercial bank, was selected as the agent because it is the
biggest lender to private industry, has performed relatively better than
other commercial banks in terms of loan recovery, profitability and manage-
ment, and has experience in the appraisal of small- and medium-sized
projects under the IDA-supported Third Small-Scale Industry Project (para
4.6).
5.9      The Government employed a similar agency arrangement with
Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) under the Second Textile Industry Rehabilita-
tion Project (Credit No. 1477-BD), but it did not function well. The
proposed arrangement is expected to operate satisfactorily because
(i) Agrani Bank's performance is much better than BSB's; (ii) the quality
of approved subprojects will be enhanced through technical assistance to
improve Agrani Bank's project appraisal capability and through prior review
by IDA of about 75Z of subprojects (in terms of amounts) (para 6.6); and
(iii) subloan recovery will be encouraged by designing Agrani's fee struc-
ture so that about 70Z of its income as agency will be tied to its
collections (para 5.12).
5.10     Under this arrangement, Agrani Bank will pass the credit funds
onto the subborrowers, without taking credit risk, and manage the subloans
on behalf of the GOB, for a fee. Agrani Bank will carry out, as the GOB's
agent, the financial/economic evaluation based on EMU's technical review
and approve subprojects (para 6.5). This onlending arrangement will be in
place for a minimum of three years. The agency arrangement would be
reviewed within the initial three years to determine whether Agrani Bank
could act as a financial intermediary, taking credit risk associated with a
regular line of credit. If deemed creditwoirthy, then GOB will transfer all
the subloans to Agrani Bank, which would carry the credit risk, under
onlending terms satisfactory to IDA and t.. be agreed at that time. A brief
description of Agrani Bank is presented sn Annex 5-2.



-23-
5.11     The initial onlending rate to enterprises will be 14.5Z per annum.
This rate compares to the prevailing commercial rate for industrial term
loans of 10.0 p.a. to 13.52 p.a. and takes into account that GOB would
assume the risk of foreign exchange fluctuations. This rate will be
positive in real terms, compared to current and expected domestic inflation
rates. The spreads between some lending and borrowing rates in Bangladesh
are currently inappropriate; reform of the structure as well as the levels
of interest rates will be pursued through the proposed Financial Sector
Credit. The onlending rate will be reviewed annually, and if there is any
adjustment in the base lending rates in the future, the applicable
onlending rates for this Project would be adjusted to reflect such a change
at the time of annual review. Subloans to beneficiary enterprises will
have a maximum maturity of 10 years, including a grace period of up to 3
years. Most subloan repayment periods are, however, expected to range
between 5-7 years including the grace period.
5.12     Agrani Bank will charge enterprises a one time appraisal fee of 1?
of the subloan amount to cover its processing costs. Agrani Bank's fees
for administering the funds for the GOB are designed to cover its adminis-
trative costs and provide adequate incentives to recover subloanss the GOB
will pay Agrani Bank (i) a management fee of 1? p.a. of the outstanding
subloans to cover its supervision costs; and (ii) 5 of the amount
collected (principal and interest but excluding interest accrued on
arrears) to provide a positive incentive for loan recovery. This fee
structure will give Agrani a spread equivalent to approxlmately 32 p.a.
interest (at 1002 collection).
5.13     The total cost of borrowing to sub-borrowers would thus be the
14.5I p.a. interest plus a 1% one time appraisal fee for Agrani's economic
and financial review and another 12 one time fee for EMU's technical
appraisal (para 6.5). The 6.52 spread between the onlending rate (14.5?
p.a.) and the normal Bank lending rate (about 82 p.a.) would be shared by
GOB (3.5?), to cover the credit and foreign exchange risks, and Agrani Bank
(3?), for administering the Credit. The detailed fee structure was agreed
during negotiations and an agency agreement has been signed between Agrani
Bank and the Government, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.



-24-
D. Procurement
5.14     Procurement arrangements for the Project are summarized belowt
Table 5.1 - Procurement Arrangement
Procurement Method         Project
ICB    LIB /a    Other          Cost
-------------(US$ million)----------
Energy Conservation Investments
Equipment and materials                5.1 /b   4.3       1.6           11.0 /c
(5.1)    (3.8)    (1.4)         (10.3)
Engineering and licenses               -        -         2.1            2.1
_        _        (1.0)         (1.0)
Civil works, construction              -        -         1.0            1.0
and commissioning                    -        -         -
5.1      4.3       4.7          14.1
(5.1)    (3.8'    (2.4)         (11.3)
Technical Assistance
Training and consultancy               -        -         0.7            0.7
_        _        (0.1)          (0.1)
Administrative expenses                -        -         0.2            0.2
4.3      5.6           15.0
TOTAL                                 (5.1)    (3.8)    (2.5)          (11.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed from IDA Credit.
/a  Limited international bidding.
/b  Includes erection and comm4ssioning costs associated with equipment
packages, totalling about US$0.4 million.
/c  Includes duties and taxes of US$0.6 million (not financed by IDA) and
international freight, and insurance of US$0.9 million (financed by IDA).
5.15     Proceeds of the IDA Credit will be used only to finance eligible
expenditures that are required for the Project. All equipment and services
to be financed from the IDA Credit will be from sources eligible under IDA
guidelines. Packages of equipment and materials exceeding US$300,000
financed by the IDA Credit will generally be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, carried out by the enterprises under



-25-
IDA's supervision, using procedures consistent with IDA's procurement
guidelines. Exceptions to ICB will be for (i) equipment proprietary to the
process design; and (ii) items for which the supply is critical for effi-
cient project implementation. Small items under contracts each with an
estimated value of less than US$300,000 (in the aggregate less than US$3.8
million) may be procured through limited international bidding (LIB) based
on quotations from at least three qualified suppliers. Contract of less
than US$10,000 in value may be procured through enterprises' normal pro-
curement procedures. Equipment and materials financed by IDA through
procedures other than ICB are not expected to exceed Us$5.0 million
equivalent in aggregate. All bidding packages for equipment and material
exceeding US$500,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review. About 502, in
value, of all contracts are expected to be subject to IDA's prior review.
The proceeds of subloans will not be used to cover expenditures incurred
more than 90 days prior to (a) Agrani's approval of a subloan below the
free limit of US$100,000 (para 6.6); and (b) receipt by IDA of the request
for subproject approval in the case of sub'oans above the free limit.
Contracts for consultancy services financed by IDA will be awarded in
accordance with IDA's guidelines on the use of consultants.
E. Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
5.16     IDA Credit Allocation.  The proposed allocation of the IDA Credit
is summarized in Annex 5-2. The proceeds of the Credit will cover (i) for
energy conservation subprojects, 80% of the amounts disbursed by the enter-
prises for equipment, materials and civil works; and (ii) 1002 of consult-
ing services for Agrani Bank.
5.17     Disbursement Schedule.  The Project is conservatively assumed to
be completed by June 30, 1994. IDA Credit will be fully disbursed by
December 31, 1994, in accordance with the estimated disbursement schedule
presented in Annex 5-3. Disbursements would be made over a six-year
period, based on the standard profile derived from past IDA experience with
similar projects. A Special Account in the amount of US$1.0 million equiv-
alent would be established in Bangladesh Bank for the Project and all IDA-
finauced expenditures will be paid thereunder. Contracts for equipment,
materials and civil works for more than the equivalent of US$50,000 would
be fullv documented (copy of contract, purchase order, bill/invoice,
evidence of payment and shipment/delivery as appropriate). Disbursements
against contracts for less than US$50,000 equivalent will be made on state-
ments of expenditures, certified by Agrani Bank. Disbursements against
consultants' services contracts would be supported by the consultant's bill
and evidence of payment if applicable. The relevant supporting documenta-
tion would be retained by Agrani Bank and made available to IDA representa-
tives for review upon request. Such documentation would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association.



-26-
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
A. Project Implementation
6.1      MEMR, through EMU, will be responsible for the implementation of
the Project and technical review of subprojects. ECCG will provide
inter-agency coordination. Agrani Bank will be responsible for
economic/financial review and approval of energy conservation subprojects
and channelling the funds to sub-borrowers.
6.2      Institution Strengthening Component.  Foreign consultants who
worked under the first Energy Efficiency Project have formulated the work
plan for EMU including training program. During the first three years of
the Project, foreign consultants will assist EMU in the areas of (a) promo-
tional campaign, (b) training, and (c) implementation of energy conserva-
tion measures. In addition, local consultants will assist in the estab-
lishment of energy data base and its analysis. During the first six months
of the Project, foreign consultants will assist Agrani Bank in the finan-
cial and economic appraisal of energy conservation projects. Appointment
of these consultants required during the first year of the work program is
a condition of credit effectiveness. IDA will also assist Agrani in
reviewing the first six subprojects and those above US$l00,OO. EMU now has
a capable managem.ent team, Director and two senior technical managers, on a
permanent basis. Under this management, EM! has completed the
documentation necessary to process the transfer of EMU from the development
budget to revenue budget (para 2.20).  It has also prepared Technical
Assistance Project Proforma (TAPP) for the technical assistance component
of the Project which has been approved by the Special Evaluation Committee
(SPEC) of GOB.  It has also prepared a detailed work program, based on the
work plan formulated by foreign consultants mentioned above, including
action plan for promotion, training and staffing requirement.
6.3      Eneray Conservation Investment Component.  Most of the subprojects
are small and consist of modifications to existing facilities. The imple-
mentation of these subprojects including procurement can therefore be
satisfactorily carried out by the enterprises using their own staff or
local organizations for design and construction work, and assistance from
vendors for the installation of imported equipment.
6.4      The Implementation Period.  The average implementation period for
a subproject is estimated to be 24 months. IDA funds are expected to be
committed over three years to subprojects approved by Agrani Bank and/or
submitted to IDA approval before December 31, 1991. It is expected that
about half of the subprojects will be completed by June 30, 1992, and the
rest by December 31, 1993, to give an overall implementation period of 5
years for the Project. However, capital cost estimates, financing plan,
disbursement schedule, estimates of project benefits, and the closing date
are based on completion of the Project by December 31, 1994 with a 6-year
implementation period in accordance with IDA's past experience with similar
projects. Agrani Bank, together with EMU, will review project implementa-
tion arrangement of each subproject during subproject appraisal and will
provide close supervision and monitoring during their implementation.



-27-
B. Subproject Eval!ation and Approval Procedures
6.5      Subproject Evaluation.  The subprojects will be prepared by the
enterprises themselves with assistance, as necessary, from EMU and domestic
consulting institutes. As a financial agent to the GOB (para S.5), Agrani
Bank will carry out appraisal of subprojects, including financial and
economic evaluation. The mission discussed and agreed with Agrani Bank on
the methodology of such evaluation. Agrani Bank will be encouraged to
ensure quality of subprojects through good project appraisal as it is
expected to act as financial intermediary and after three years assume full
credit risk for subloans. In the appraisal of subprojects, EMU will assist
Agrani Bank in carrying out technical evaluation of subprojects for a one-
time fee of 1X of the subloan amount, which would be borne by sub-
borrowers. EMU's approval of subprojects on technical grounds will be a
precondition of Agrani's appraisal. EMU will in this manner play an
advisory role for Agrani Bank who will be the final approval authority for
the subloans. In addition to reviewing the merits of a subproject, the
financial and economic viability of the enterprise itself will also be
reviewed by Agrani. The following eligibility criter_a have been agreed:
(a) the subproject should be aimed at direct energy saving or fuel
substitution; (b) it should have an economic rate of return of at least
182; (c) economic and financial analysis of enterprises' current and future
operations should clearly establish their economic and financial viability;
(d) the enterprise should not be in arrears in its payment of outstanding
loans with the banking sector.
6.6      Subproject Approval Procedures.  As indicated (para 6.5), Agrani
Bank will have the approval authority for energy conservation subprojects.
All the private sector subprojects will be approved by Agrani Bank only.
Most of the public sector subprojects will in addition be approved by the
Department Project Evaluation Committee (DPEC) of MEMR based on the Agrani
Bank's appraisal reports, and forwarded to the Planning Commission for
inclusion in the Annual Development Program. Only those public sector
subprojects exceeding Tk 20 million (about US$650,00 equivalent) will be
subject to the normal government approval process, involving Planning
Commission review and approval of a Project Proforma (PP). Under the
Project, this procedure is expected to apply to only four subprojects. IDA
will review the first six subprojects irrespective of their size and all
subprojects above US$100,000 prior to Agrani Bank's approval. About 252 of
the subprojects by number and 752 by amounts are thus expected to be
reviewed by IDA prior to final approval.
6.7      For authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit, Agrani Bank
will be required tc submit to IDA (a) a summary description of the benefi-
ciary and technical, economic and financial analysis of subprojects satis-
factory to IDA; (b) a list of goods and services to be financed under IDA
Credit; (c) the method of procurement of the goods and services; and (d)
terms and conditions of the subloan, including the amortization schedule.



-28-
6.8      Maximum and Minimum Subloan Size.  Some 50 subprojects are
expected to be financed under the Project, most of them are small with only
about five expected to be in excess of US$500,000 (mainly in fertilizer
plants) among energy conservation subprojects; a majority of subloans are
expected to be below US$50,000. Maximum subloan limit will be US$3.5
million, and minimum, US$10,000.
C. Cost Recovery
6.9      Unlike in other countries where energy audits are carried out
against a fee, under the first Energy Efficiency Project, the GOB met the
cost of such audits. In the long-run, EMU would, however, need to meet at
least part of the cost from its own resources. EMU will, therefore, charge
for some of its services such as training, energy audits in a gradual
manner; 20? beginning FY89 and increasing to 100? over a 5-year period.
For providing technical evaluation of subprojects, EMU will receive a one
time fee of 1? of the subloan amount which will be charged to the sub-
borrowers. Provision of other services at the GOB's cost is justified
since EMU's activities are in the national interest and economic benefits
would far exceed the financial costs.
D. Reporting and Auditing Requirements
6.10     EMU will be required to submit to IDA quarterly progress reports
within two months after the end of each quarter and a completion report
within six months after the Credit closing date. In addition, Agrani Bank
will be required to submit to IDA, within two months after the end of each
quarter, a quarterly project progress report including procurement status
on the energy conservation subprojects under implementation. Agrani Bank
would also prepare a completion report on each of the subprojects above
US$100,000 within six months after their completion; such reports will be
made available to IDA for review during supervision missions.
6.11     Agrani Bank will keep separate project accounts, and provide to
IDA, within nine months after the end of each fiscal year, the project
accounts, including withdrawals from the special account and withdrawals
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA in accordance with appropriate accounting prin-
ciples consistently applied. Enterprises receiving subloans under IDA
Credit would submit to Agrani Bank within four months after the end of each
fiscal year, reports on their overall annual financial results and
position. Agrani Bank will ensure that the funds are used only for the
intended purpose.



-29-
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RTSKS
A. Proiect Benefits
7.1      The proposed Project will contribute to the Government's objective
of improving energy use efficiency in the industrial and power sectors. It
will help improve competitiveness of Bangladesh industries by reducing
energy costs and generate foreign exchange savings by substituting energy
imports. The institution strengthening component will help improve EHU's
technical capabilities in promotion, implementation and monitoring in
energy conservation activities, and strengthen its role in the national
energy rationalization program. Agrani Bank's project appraisal procedures
will be improved through strict eligibility criteria applied for
subprojects selection. Improvement in project appraisal methodology under
the technical assistance component will help reinforce the soundness of the
investment decision-making process in Bangladesh.
7.2      The IDA Credit would make foreign exchange available for the
financing of about 50 energy saving subprojects. Analysis of pre-
identified subprojects (excluding cogeneration) under the proposed Project
indicates that an average of 10 toe savings would be conservatively
expected for every US$1,000 investment. The benefits would essentially be
derived from direct energy savings in fuel oil, natural gas and power,
waste heat recovery and further utilization of biomass and recycled waste
materials. In 1994, when all subprojects financed under the Credit are
expected to be in full operation, energy savings are estimates to total
about 119,000 toe p.a. valued roughly at US$8.5 million in constant
November 1987 dollars based on projected economic prices of energy. This
represents nearly 302 of the total potential energy savings in industry.
In addition to the energy savings, the plants in many cases would derive
substantial non-energy savings through general productivity improvements
associated with energy conservation measures.
7.3      The economic analysis for pre-identified potential subprojects in
46 audited plants is summarized in Annex 3-2. All costs and benefits are
expressed in November 1987 prices. Each subproject is assumed to be
implemented over two years with an economic life of 7-12 years after
completion. Economic capita. costs were derived after eliminating taxes
and import duties, from the estimated base capital costs. Economic prices
for energy resources are based on international prices for petroleum pro-
ducts and LRMC for natural gas and power. The base case economic analysis
used an average crude oil price, FOB Singapore, of US$15lbbl. Price of
fuel oil was derived from the crude oil price assuming constant product to
crude oil price ratio of 0.8 and subtracting transport costs of US$7/ton
between Bangladesh border and Singapore since currently Bangladesh is a net
exporter of fuel oil. The economic value of natural gas and power was
based on LRMC estimated by IDA staff. The price of fuel oil, natural gas
and power were assumed to remain constant (in real terms) during the
Project life.
7.4      The base case economic rates of return (ERRs) for potential sub-
projects are expected to range between 18? and over 1002 (Annex 3-2).
Assuming that 118,000 toe p.a. energy saving is expected from subprojects



-30-
to be financed under the Project, and based on the total base Project cost
of US$13.6 million equivalent including cost of the institution strengthen-
ing component less tax and duties (US$0.6 million equivalent), the overall
ERR for the Project is expected to be 432, as shown in Annex 7-1. The net
present value of the net benefits attributable to the Project, assuming a
122 opportunity cost of capital, is estimated at about US$17 million. This
reflects characteristics associated with energy conservation projects of
high economic benefits derived from relatively small investments. The net
present value of foreign exchange savings after foreign debt service, also
assuming a 122 opportunity cost of capital, is estimated at about US$11
million in November 1986 prices (Annex 7-2).
7.5      Sensitivity analysis was carried out for different prices of crude
oil, gas and power, which summarized in the following table.
Sensitivity Analysis
Base
Case    Changes   ERR           NPV
(2)     (US$ million)
Base Case                                 -        -       42.6         16.9
Sensitivity Analysis
Fuel Oil (US$/bbl)                    10.96    -252    40.8         15.7
+252    44.5         18.3
Natural Gas (US$/mcf)
For Fertilizer                       1.14    -25%    46.5         19.7
Other Industries                1.75    +252    38.4          14.1
Power (US$/Kwh)                        7.34    -252    45.6         19.1
+252    39.4         14.7
Combination of all the negative changes above              33.0         10.6
Results of the sensitivity tests to lower energy savings and different
energy prices indicate that the Project will remain economically viable
under any reasonable change in the energy prices. Under the agreed
eligibility criteria for subprojects, no subproject will be eligible for
financing unless it is estimated to have an ERR of at least 182 (para 6.5).



-31-
B. Proiect Risks
7.6      The technical risks of the Project are considered moderate since
investments would be of small size, consist of mostly modification/improve-
ment of existing facilities, and be based on commercially proven technolo-
gies. The Project risks are limited mainly to (a) slow demand for
investments because of lack of awareness on the part of enterprises and
their poor financial position, (b) institutional weaknesses; and (c) sub-
loan repayments. These risks would, however, be mitigated by the following
considerationss the size of the Credit is kept sufficiently small to have
about 60% of the Project, in terms of amount, already identified and
reviewed by IDA. The risk of slow demand has also been minimized by a
conservative estimate of six year implementation period. Technical assist-
ance is being provided to EMU and, to a limited extent, to Agrani Bank to
address institutional weaknesses. Application of strict financial and
economic eligibility criteria should minimize the risk of default on
subloan repayments.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
8.1      During neogitations i.t was agreed that as conditions of credit
effectiveness the Government would:
(a) execute a financing agreement with ODA for technical assistance to
EMU (para 5.3);
(b)  transfer EMU, effective July 1, 1988, from the development budget
to the revenue budget (para 2.20); and
(c) cause EMU and Agrani Bank to appoint consultants (para 6.2).
8.2      During negotiations the Government agreed tot
(a) ensure the continued employment of a suitably qualified director
for EMU (para 2.20);
(b) ensure regular participation by members in ECCG meetings (para
2.22);
(c) adopt the agreed subproject approval procedures (para 6.6):
(d)  cause EMS  to introduce arrangements for recovery of costs related
to energy audits and training (para 6.9); aad
(e) cause Agrani Bank to:
(i) disburse only against eligible subloan expenditures (para
5.16);



-32.
(ii) follow agreed criteria for subproject evaluation (para 6.5);
(iii) follow agreed criteria for subproject approval (para 6.6);
and
(iv) apply a maximum limit on subloans of US$3.5 million (para
6.8).
Recommendation
8.3      With the above agreements the proposed project is suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 8.3 million (US$11.4 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to the Government of Bangladesh.



ANNEX 2-1
-33-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CURRENT FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRICES OF ENERGY PRODUCTS
Financial
Financial Prices a/    Economic Prices b/        as X of
Tk/Lt    US$/ton cl    Tk/Lt   US$/ton c/    Economic
Petroleum Products
Gasoline            13.20       586          4.48       199              294
Kerosene/Jet Fuel   6.87        280          4.29       175              1co
Diesel               6.90       263          4.29       164              160
Fuel Oil             4.70       163          3.21       111              147
Tk/mcf   US$/mcf        TK/mcf  US$/mcf
Natural Gas
Bulkt
Fertilizer        24.82    0.80           29.10     0.96                83
Power             24.82    0.80           26.99     0.89                90
Industrial          52.14    1.68           47.80      1.57              107
Commercial          65.39    2.15           54.50      1.79              120
Domestic            44.88    1.48           67.30      2.21               67
Tk/iWh   USc/kWh        Tk/kWh  USc/kWh
Electricity
Residential       1.00-2.75 3.3-9.0          4.52      14.9            22-61
Commercial        2.20-2.95 7.2-9.7          4.29      14.1            51-69
Shops
Industrial
Jute/Textile       2.50      8.0           2.82       9.1               88
Other (LV)         3.10    10.0            2.54      8.2               122
Tklton     US$/ton      Tk/ton    US$/ton
Coal
Steam Coal         2,100         69         2,100        69              100
Hard Coke          5,575        183         5,575       183              100
La Current prices effective since September 1987.
/b Economic prices are border prices for petroleum products and coal, and
long-run marginal cost of natural gas and electricity, estimated by IDA
staff.



ANNEX 2-2
-34-
I  ii
1~~ X
j W 4~~~~~~~~~~
I~



RANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Hnerav Consumntion by Industry for FYSSa,
(Qo00 toe)
Natural     Petroleum          Purchased bl   Com. Energy     Tradltlwoal
Gas       Products    Coal  Electricity      Subtotal    Fuels (biomass)  Total
Food and Agrlculture Products           23.1          70.4       -        193.3          286.8          743.2  l    1,030.0
Jute                                    20.8          16.2       -         80.7          117.7           12.9_1        130.6
Textile                                 28.7           8.3       -         54.5           91.3            3M7t'         95.2
Pulp and Paper                          34.1         138.8       -         27.1          200.0           17.l1f        217.1
FortlIlsers                            780.5           2.9       -          7.0          790.4            -            790.4
XNn-Metallic Mneral Products           121.5          2S.6      57.2        7.1          211.4          168. 4         379.8
Steel and Metal Products                18.9          56.2       9.9       15.2          100.2            0.3          100.7
Other                                   92-7          28-4        _       102.1          222  2           7.5          229.7
Total Industry                       1.119.3         346-8      67-1      487.0        2,020.2          953.3        2.973.5
Thermal Power (Net)                    963.2         268.0        -       _1231.2                         -          1-231.2
Total Industry and Power          2,082.5         614.S      67.1      487.0        3,231.4          953.3        4.204.7
li  Estimated by EM. Industry consumption figures are about 302 higher than those Indicated in paras. 2.9 and 3.7 of the text.
kI Electricity converted at the rate of 307 toelGWh, assuming 27.32 thwrmal converslon efficiency.
£1  Bagasse, rice husk and firewood.
d/ Jute dust and firewood.
el Firewood.
£/ 8lack liquor.
NME: Totals in this table do not Include energy consumption for small scale and cottage industrles.



-36-i                                                    MANNEX 3-2
RANeLADESU - INDusTRIAL ENERGY EFFIClECYP°OJBC
LIST OP AUDITEDLIANTS
IfnergY Conservation Protectl                           iEtuJted Pro ect Cost    Annual
Foreign       Knorgy          Not Annual                Payback
Public Sector Interorlm                 Setor              Sotl        ExJhauo use                 Emrs StySavirs /a   ER       Peroj
(T mll.)    (TX oll.)    (too)         (toe)      (Tk mll.)  (X)    (TK mil
1.  S. C. Fort. FaC.-Fenehuganj        Fortilisor             16.0          4.7        141,902    17,541        23.94    0100       0.7
2.  TSP Fertilier-ChittagSong          Fortiliser            112.0         87.4          8,217  1,677 lb         42.05 Lk   24      2.7
3.  Urea Fert. Fat-Ohorashal           Fertillslr             25.6         18.7        268,487    13,553        18.51    e100       1.4
4.  Ea FertLiLser Compny               Fertilizer             70.0         44.5        357,974    26,623        44.60       90      1.5
S.  tarnaphull Papor Will              Pulp S Paper            7.7          3.1         46,444      3,859        8.11       71      0.8
6.  Khulaa Nevsprint Mill              Pulp & Paper           44.3         21.6         44,441      5,125        13.15      47      2.6
7.  North Bengal Paper Mill            Pulp 6 Paper            3.6          2.1         18,240        328         0.84      21      4.2
8.  Sylhet Pulp and Paper Mill         Pulp & Paper            6.1          1.4         20,630      2,627         5.52      61      1.0
9.  Chundeeeherra Tea Estato           Tea                     1.5          -              800        178         0.62      62      2.7
10.  Jagadishpur Toa Estato /e          Tea                     0.3          0.3            161         75         0.16      17      1.9
11.  Mad-hpore Tea Estate               Tea                     1.5          -              800        178         0.62      62      2.7
12.  Patrakols Tea Estat,               Tea                     1.5          -              800        178         0.62      62      2.7
13.  Premnagar Tea Estate               Tea                     1.5          -              800        178         0.62      62      2.7
i4.  Adamjee Jute Mill                  Jute                    2.2          0.7         19,998      1.763         3.71    100      0.5
15.  Crescent Jute Mill                 Jute                    1.8          0.3          8,595        321         0.82      50      2.2
16.  Baanladesh Jute Mill lo            Jute                    3.2          1.6          3,S06        391         0.82      17      4.2
17.  Amin Jute Mill                     Jute                    5.1          1.5          6,960        766         2.93    0100      1.6
18.  Ashusanj Power Station             Power                   1.6          0.6        227,949      7.055         9.63    100      0.1
19.  Ghorashal Power Station            Pover                   1.1          0.7        204,359    12,879        17.58    clOo       0.1
20.  Ehulna Power Station               Power                   4.3          0.9        132,433        982         2.52      65      1.9
21.  Siddhirganj Pover Statlon          Power                   2.6          1.5        119,414        199         0.51      18      5.2
22.  Chhatak Cement                     Cement S Class          0.4          0.2         27,229        407         0.86    0100      0.5
23.  !smania Clasa                      Cemant 4 class          0.1           -          15.247        468         1.01    0100      0.0
24   Dhaka Vegetablo Oil                Food ProcesiLng         0.4          0.1          3,371        258         0.54      72      0.7
25.  Mobarakganj Sugar Mill             Sugar                   2.0          0.9         11,396      1,054         2.27    0100      0.8
26.  Zeal Bangla Sugar Mill             Sugar                   1.4          0.3          5,647      1,042         2.19    0l00      0.6
27.  Chittaranjan Cotton Mill           Textile                 2.9          0.7          3.727      1.300         4.00    0100      0.7
28.  Luxmi Narayan Cotton Mill          Textile                 1.5          0.6          2,713        799         1.68      83      0.8
29.  Maghna Textile Mill                Textile                 0.4          -            1,173         66         0.14      40      2.5
30.  OlympLa Textile Mill               Textile                 0.6          0.2          3,770        499        1.28    0100       0.4
31.  Zeenat Textile Mill                Textile                 0.2          0.1          2.125        190        0.49    ¢100       0.4
32.  Chittagong Steel Mill              Steel                   1                        44.230      5.489       14.03    100       0.1
Total Publie Sector                                 325.0       194.7      1.753.438   108.058        194.12
Private Sector Enterorlses
1.  Barsoora Tea gstate                Tea                     1.5          -              800        178        0.62       62      2.7
2.  Dauracherra Tea Estate             Tea                     0.4          -              472        101         0.36    O100      1.4
3.  Daundi Tea Estate                  Tea                     0.3          -              276        105        0.22       32      1.4
4. HamidLa Tea Estate                  Tea                     1.5          -              800        178        0.62       62     2.7
5.  Maulivi Tea Estate                 Toe                     1.5          -              800        178        0.62       62      2.7
6.  Rajahat Tea Estate                 Tea                     1.7          -            2,049        948        1.90       24      1.1
7.  Chittagong BrLek                   Bricks 1 Ceramics       3.5          1.9          4,711        707        2.90    100       1.1
8.  Conforce Briek                     Bricks & Ceramics       0.3          -            4,226        398        0.84    clO0       0.4
9.  Haji Brick                         Bricks & Ceramics       0.0          -              885         28        0.06    0100      0.4
10.  Mirpur Ceramic                     Bricks & Ceramics       2.1          1.1          2,938        897        1.89       61     1.0
11.  Peoples Ceramic                    Bricks & Ceramics       0.9          0.2          3.057        274        0.58       38     1.4
12.  Bangladesh Oxygen                  Chemical                0.6          -           1,285          38        0.24       56     2.4
13.  Shavo Rice Mill                    Food Processing           5                         38          76        016        24      3.6
Total Private Sector                                  148             2        22,684    4*106          11.01
Total Public S Private Sector                            339          197.9     1 726.12    112.164        205.13
Coxeneration Project
Private Sector Enterorlse
1.  A. K. Khan Group                   Textile/Jute          1549 8       llO4           8.771      3,968       39.63       22     4.1
Total Energy Conservation aNd
Cogeneration Measures                               4946         3         1.784.893  1J6 132         244.76
/a   Non-energy savings or incremental operating costs attributable to energy conservation projects are not included.
lb   Mostly fuel switching measures, which do not save energy but replace vith more economical anergy.
le Sub-projects vlth ERR of less than 181 vill not be eligible for financing under the Project.



_37_                                                 ANNEX 4-1
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERMY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
CONSJLTINC SERVICES
A. 2l2
Year I            Year 2             Year 3               Total
Types of Services                   Foreiin  Local    Foreii  Local    Foreistn Lal    Foreln  Losal
-N-------------------------- Man-month ------------------------
1. Training Instructor
ln Special Projects             2        -          1                 -        -         3
Promotion Specialist                   2        -         2        -          -       -          4
MIS/Data Bank                          -        2         -                   -       -          -         2
Technlcal Experts
- Combustion Controll
Retrofitting                 2        2         2        2          -        -         4         4
-  CogeneratIon                   2        2          2       2          -        2         4         6
-  Other                          _        _                             1        _         1
Total                     _       _          7        _4                 1         a            11
2.  Estimate Cost:                                                       For Rn    Local    Total
-------- US dollars-------
Fee                     $12,000 x 16 man-months               -     192,000          -   192,000
Per Diem                $60 x 480 days                        a            -   28,800    28,800
Travel                  $2,000 x 6 tLmes                      a      32.000         -    32 000
224.000   28.800   252.800
Local Consultants
Fee                     $2,000 x 11 man-months                a            -   22 000    22 000
Total Base Cost                                               a    224,000   50,800   274,800
Price Escalation                                                     22 400    5.080    27.480
Total Consulting Services to EMU                              a    246.400  5S880   302.280
B.  Arani Bank
1.  Requirements:   Six man-months of foreign consultants to train Agrani staff in the economic appraisal
of energy conservation projects.
2.  Estimated Cost:
Fee                        $12,000 x 6 nan-months             a      72,000         -    72,000
Per diem                   $60 x 180 days                     a            -   10,800    10,800
Travel                    $2,000 x 2 times              -              4.000        -      4.000
Total Base Cost                                                           76,000   10,800    86,800
Price Escalation (11)         8,360                                       8.360    1 190 9I550
Total ConsultLig Services to Agrani                                       84.360   11 990    96.350
C.  Total Consultinn Services                                            364 080   872910   451,990



Annex 4-2
-38-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
PROPOSED TRAININO PROGRAM
Number of Partic"'snts
Institution and        Course           Agr ni                     Estimated Cost s/
Name of Course              Location           Duration   EMU    Sank   Industry   Total  '000   row Tk
Utility and lndustry    TVA                    8 weeko      2      1     -             8     so        -
Energy Conservation     Tennessee, USA
LDC Energy Manager      UP/3EU                 6 weeks      4      1     8            18    130        -
Progrm/PRACTICOM         Phillippines
Industry Energy         9IDC, Bangladesh       2 weeks      4      2   109           17T6S/   -     526
Conservation - Level I
Industrial Energy       BMDC, Bangladesh  I/   1 week       a      2    52            69 d/   -     120
Conservatlon - Level It
Project Engineerlng      SU, Bangladesh !       2 weeks     7      2      -            7
Total:                             28     8   168           109    160     646
Total
--US '000 Equivalent--
ease Cost                 160.0   20.9   100.9
Price Esealotion (11w)    17.6    2.8    19.9
Total Coast             177R§  2E    20"
a/ Exeludes cost of consultants used as instructors Included In the cost of consulting services.
S/  26 participants per class moxiumt 8 classs given in Year 1, 2 and 2 In Year S.
c; Prerequisites: Level followed by 8 to 12 months experience as Energy Manager/Coordinator
a/ 15 psrtlclpant* per class maximum: 1 class given In Year 1, 2 In Year 2 and 1 In Year 3
/ To be conducted by foreign consultant(s)



ANNEX 5-1
-39-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFPICIEN PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost La
Local     Foreign    Total      8 of Total
--US$ million equivalent--      Base Cost
Energy Conservation Invetment 
Equipment, Materials & Spares          1.53         7.13     8.66        64.4
Freight, Insurance & Handling          0.54         0.17     0.71         5.2
Duties and Taxes                       0.55          -       0.55         4.1
Licensing & Engineering                1.23         0.67     1.90        14.1
Civil Works & Construction             0.95          -        .95         7.0
Subtotal                             4.80         712.77 L2 1Z
Technical Assistance
Training                               0.02         0.16     0.18         1.4
Consultancy                            0.08         0.33     0.41         3.0
Administrative Expenses                            -- - X.0.15            1.1
Subtotal                            Q50.49                07           5
Total Base Cost                     5.           8.46    13.51       100.0
Price Contingency                      0.56         0.93     1.49
Total Financing Required                  5.61        9.39    15.00
% of Total                               37.4         62.6    100.0
/a  Base cost estimate expressed in November 1987 prices.
tb Estimated on the basis of already identified subprojects.
L/ Includes local transport, office equipment, facilities and supplies, and
general and administrative expenses relating to technical assistance
component, estimated at about 25% of the costs for training and consultancy.



ANNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 3
-40-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Brief Description of Agrani Bank
1.       Agrani Bank is the third largest commercial bank in Bangladesh.
It was established in March 1972 through the merger of Habid Bank Ltd. and
Commerce Bank. It provides a wide range of commercial banking services
including deposit taking, lending to productive activities and foreign
exchange transactions. As of end 1986, it had total assets of Tk 26.4
billion (US$857 million equivalent) and a network of 827 branches. Among
nationalized commercial banks (NCBs), Agrani is the biggest lender to
private industry with outstanding advances as of December 1986 at Tk 15.2
billion (US$494 million equivalent), corresponding to about 75% of its
total loan portfolio. Term loans to small industries granted under the
IDA-financed Third Small Scale Industry Project (Credit 1065-BD) amounted
to TK 166.3 million (US$5.4 million equivalent).
2.       Agrani Bank is a relatively better performer among NCBs.  Its
total revenues in 1986 were Tk 2.3 billion (US$75 million equivalent) and
net income Tk 278 million (US$9.0 million equivalent). Its gross income
and profits grew at 31% p.a. and 32% p.a. respectively during 1981-86. Its
collection performance is also generally better than other NCBs; its annual
collection ratio improved from 38.8% in the fiscal year ended in June 1986
to 43.9% in FY87. Agrani has gained experience under the Third Small-Scale
Industry Project in using good appraisal standards and procedures. Income
statements and balance sheets of Agrani Bank for 1981-86 are presented in
Attachment 1 and 2.
3.       Agrani Bank has a total staff of about 11,196 including 3,951
officers, 4,897 clerical and 2,348 support staff as of December 31, 1986.
The Board of Directors is responsible for its policy formulation. The
Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, is accountable to the Board.
Under the proposed Project, Agrani Bank, as GOB's financial agent, will be
responsible for review, approval and supervision of energy conservation
subprojects. The Industrial Development and Finance Department (IDFD) at
the headquarters, which handles all industrial term lending operations with
18 officers, including 4 engineers and 12 financial analysts and
economists, will be responsible for such review/supervision. Its
capabilities in this area will be strengthened through training and
provision of foreign consultants (6 man-months). As part of the training
program, Agrani expects to send about 8 IDFD staff to foreign and local
training courses in energy conservation.



ANNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 3
-41-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PRO4E.
Agrani Bank - Income Statement (1981-86)
(million Taka)
1981      1982       1983      1984       1985       1986
Income
Interest Earned             465.7    571.2      771.8   1,169.0   1,730.2   2,058.0
Commissions Earned          120.3    104.0      136.8      145.4      203.2      185.6
Other Income                 10.5     14.1       22.7       41.1       72.4       85.4
Total Income          596.5    689.3       931.3   1.355.5   2,005.8   2,329.0
ExDenditures
Interest Expenses           306.2    385.4      546.9      875.0   1,235.8   1,529.4
Admin. Expenses             202.5    193.5      235.7      270.1      397.6      466.9
Other Expenses               19.7     21.4       29.9-I                ALI        54.8
Total Exuenditure      528.4    600.3       812.5   1.184.6   1.682.6   2.051.1
Net Profit before Tax        §8A       89.0     118.8      17Q.9      323.2      277.9
Net Profit/Income (%)        11.4     12.9       12.8       12.6       16.1        1.9



ANNEX 5-2
-42-                               Page 3 of 3
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Agrani Bank - Balance Sheets (1981-86)
(million Taka)
Assets
Cash and Deposits        921.7   1,164.4   1,167.9   2,087.2   2,402.1   1,918.1
Loans & Advances       7,036.7   7,546.2  10,681.7  16,780.0  18,474.8  18,368.1
Investments            1,150.2   1,273.6   2,293.4   3,126.5   3,406.1   4,735.1
Fixed Assets (Net)        47.8      46.4       47.2       91.3     118.8      131.4
Other Assets             352.0      368.9     515.6   1,000.1   1,360.2   1,267.2
total Assets        9.509.3  10.339.5  14.705.8  23.085.1  25.762.0  26.419.2
Liabilities & Equirt
'Liabilities:
Deposits             5,713.6   7,065.7  10,266.4  14,413.0  17,423.0  19,667.7
Borrowings             849.0     388.2      686.0   2,719.2   1,927.3   2,219.6
Other Liabilities   2.864.2   2.862.6   3,665.6   i§55_.l   6.275.5   4,439L9
Total Liabilities   9.426.8  10.316.5  14.618.0  22.988.1  25.625.8  26.318.2
Equity:
Paid-in Capital         30.0      30.0       30.0       35.0      35.0       35.0
Reserves                52.5       54.0      57.8       62.0     101.2       66.7
Total Eguity            82.        83.       8787.               136.2      101.7
Total Liabilities
and EgLty          9.509.3  10.399.5  l14705.8  23.085.1  25.'62.0  26.419.9



Annex 5-3
-43-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Proposed IDA Credit Allocation
Category                                  US$ million   Eligible Expenditures
A.  Institution Strengthening Component        0.10       1002 of consulting
services to Agrani
Bank
B.  Energy Conservation Investment            11.34      802 of the amounts
Component                                            disbursed by the
enterprises for
approved subprojects
Total Credit                         11.44
Estimated Disbursement Schedule For IDA Credit
Disbursement
During         Cumulative      Cumulative
Year                           Semester      Disbursements   Disbursments
-------- US$ million --------   --- (X) ----
1989
January -  June                    0.23             0.00               2
July - December                    0.23             0.46               4
1990   January -  June               0.68             1.14              10
July - December                    1.26             2.40              21
1991  January -  June                1.60             4.00              35
July - December                    1.83             5.83              51
1992   January -  June               1.72             7.55              66
July - December                    1.49             9.04              79
1993
January -  June                    1.03            10.07              88
July - December                    0.68            10.75              94
1994
January -  June                     .23            10.98              96
July - December                     .23            11.21              98
1994
January - June                     0.12            11.33              99
July - December                    0.11            11.44             100
Total                        11.44



ANNEX 7-1
-44-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Economic Analysis for tne Pro1ect
(in thousands of November 1986 USS)
19           19,9  1991    1992    1993    1994    1995   1996    1997
Incremental Benefits          -       -     353    1,852   4,499   6,969   8,292  8,821  8,821
Incremental Costs
Operating                   -       -      (29)    (152)   (370)   (572)   (681)  (725)  (725)
Capital                  5     (2.203) (3.888)  (3.629) (1.944)   (778)         -       -
Net denefits               (518) (2,203) (3,564)  (1,929)  2,185   5,619   7,611  8,097  8,097
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Incremental Benefits    8,821   8,821   8,821    8,468   6,969   4,322   1,852    529
lncremntal Costs
Operating                (725)   (725)   (725)    (696)   (572)   (355)   (152)   (43)
Capital                                                    _  
Net Benefits               8,097  8,097   8,097   7,773   6,396   3,967   1,700    486
Economic Rate of Return   -   42.61
Present Value of Net Benefits
Discounted
at 122                     -   US$16.9 million



ANMEX 7-2
-45-
BANGLADESH - INDUSTRIAL ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
Foreign Excohanse Savinas
(US$000 in November 1987 prices)
1989   1990   1991       1992    1993    1994       1995    1996      1t97
Outflows
Foreign Capital Expenditures          348   1,428   2,585   2,359   1,235        483        -        -
Debt Service on IDA Credit
Service Charges                    55       52      57       64      71       75       75      74       72
Prinnipal                           -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Total Outflows               402   1,481   2.642   2.423   1.307        558      75       74      72
Outflows
IDA Credit Disbursement               444   1,826   3,304   3,015   1,579        617        -        -       -
Energy SavLngs                        110      578   1,403   2,173   2,585   2,750   2,750   2,750   2,750
Total Inflows                554   2,403   4.706   5,187   4.164   3.367   2.750   2,750   2.750
Foreign Exchange Savings           152      922   2.064   2.764   2.857   2.809   2.675   2.676   2.678
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Outflows
Capital Expenditures               -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -
Debt Service on IDA Credit
Service Charges                    70       67      65       62      59       57       54      52
Principal                          94      184     18C      175     172      168      164   9.648
Total Outflows               164     251      244     237      231      224     218   9.700
Inflows
IDA Credit Disbursement                 -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -
Energy Savings                      2.750   L2750   2.750   2.640   2,173   1.348         578      165
Total Inflows             2.750   2,750   2.750   2.640   2.173   1.348         578      165
Net Foreign Exchange Savings            2,586   2.499   2.506   2.403   1.942   1.123        360  (9.535)
Present Value of Net Foreign
Exchange Savings, Discounted
12X                                   = US$11.1 Million



