                          Document of
                      The World Bank




                                                      Report No: 28241-PK

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                     (IDA-29920 TF-29219)

                             ON A

                            CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 22.8 MILLION (SDR 16.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO THE

               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                            FOR A

               NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT




                         March 22, 2004

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective June 1997 at appraisal and 30 September 2003 at closing)

                                 Currency Unit = PKR
                                    PKR 40.50 = US$ 1 (June 1997)
                                                    =
                                         US$ 1 = PKR 57.75 (September 2003)

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                          GOP Fiscal Year (FY)      July 1 - June 30

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEO       Assistant Education Officer
AIOU      Allama Iqbal Open University
AJK       Azad Jammu and Kashmir
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CoF       Co-financier
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DEO       District Education Officer
DFID      Department for International Development, United Kingdom
DOE       Department of Education
DPIEE     Directorate of Public Instruction, Elementary Education
EMIS      Education Management Information System
FBTD      Field-based Teacher Development
GER       Gross Enrollment Rates
GOP       Government of Pakistan
HRD       Human Resource Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
MoKANA    Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas Affairs
NA        Northern Areas
NAEP      Northern Areas Education Project
NBF       Non-Bank Financing
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NEP       Northern Education Project
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
NOC       No Objection Certificate
NRSP      National Rural Support Program
PKR       Pakistani Rupee
PTA       Parents-Teachers Association
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
SAP       Social Action Program
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SMC       School Management Committee
TA        Technical Assistance
UPE       Universal Primary Education

                 Vice President:  Praful C. Patel
              Country Director    John W. Wall
               Sector Manager     Charles C. Griffin (SD); Michelle Riboud (SM)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    S. Ameer Naqvi

                                          PAKISTAN
                                NORTHERN EDUCATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34
Annex 8. Borrower's Additional Comments                                          35

Project ID: P037834                                                  Project Name: NORTHERN EDUCATION
Team Leader: S. Ameer Naqvi                                          TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 26, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: NORTHERN EDUCATION                                       L/C/TF Number: IDA-29920; TF-29219
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (56%); Other social services (15%); Tertiary
                            education (15%); Sub-national government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/27/1995                                     Effective: 02/23/1998                02/23/1998
     Appraisal: 04/09/1996                                         MTR: 05/30/2000                  06/22/2000
      Approval: 10/30/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOP/ Islamic Republic of Pakistan/Directorate of Education Northern Areas and
                                           AJK
                      Other Partners:      Department for International Development (DFID), United Kingdom

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               John W. Wall                                   Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Director:                Charles C. Griffin                             Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:             S. Ameer Naqvi                                 Ana Maria Jeria
ICR Primary Author:             Mark LaPrairie


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Northern Education Project (NEP) was to support the program for the development of
the elementary school sector in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) and Northern Areas (NA) and, to that
end, to assist in: (a) improving the quality of education; (b) increasing equitable access to education; (c)
strengthening institutional capacity; and (d) promoting community participation. NEP was designed to
cover education from Katchi (kindergarten) to grade 8, with particular emphasis on the primary years and
girls' education.

The Social Action Program (SAP), initiated in 1994 prior to the inception of NEP, was the federal
Government's main funding and policy instrument for basic education. Broadly, SAP aimed to expand and
improve basic services, especially for women and girls, while the education component of SAP aimed to
effect policy and institutional change to increase the number of girls and female teachers in schools and
improve the quality of education overall. Within the overall context of SAP, the Government of Pakistan
(GOP) and its donor partners, including IDA, supported provincial-level education projects in all four of
Pakistan's provinces and in AJK and NA through NEP, which was seen as a means of complimenting the
broader education sector reform objectives of SAP. NEP's overarching-objectives were the same for AJK
and NA, although different emphases were placed on the specific areas of education system development
in-line with local needs.

The objectives of NEP were realistic insofar as they accurately reflected the status of education sector
development in AJK and NA. In both areas there were major issues related to: (i) physical infrastructure,
characterized by inadequate design of school facilities and a lack of on-going maintenance; (ii) teachers and
teaching practices, with the use of multi-grade teaching taking place in most schools due to an inadequate
number of teachers, particularly women, compounded by teachers' use of out-dated teaching methodologies
emphasizing rote learning, inadequate preparation of teachers with little or no on-going training
opportunities; and (iii) a management structure characterized by a shortage of technical and female staff,
and an overall lack of education system information for planning, monitoring and evaluation. Both areas
fell below national averages on key subject assessments and NA fell below national averages on enrollment,
particularly for girls. NA, in particular, had traditionally been among the most backward areas of Pakistan
in terms of education indicators. Enrollment at the primary level was just over half of all school-aged
children, and that of girls lagged much behind boys (35 and 74 percent, respectively). There were also
significant differences between the NA's five districts, with girls' enrollment only 14 percent at the time of
project preparation in one district. AJK was slightly better off with comparatively good primary enrollment
levels, although with consistently lower participation of girls overall.

The objectives reflected the priorities set forth in the statements of educational priorities and strategies
articulated by each region at the time of project preparation, and agreed formally at project negotiations.
They are assessed to have been appropriate for addressing the major problems and deficiencies in education
system functioning in both areas and largely responsive to the Borrower's circumstances and development
priorities. They were clear and well understood by the Borrower and administrations in each area.
Complexity of the project is assessed to have been adequate in terms of the range of institutional
improvements, the number of institutions involved, the number of project components, and the number of
donor partners participating through parallel financing. However, it may have been overly complex in terms
of its having two distinct geographic areas for implementation, as discussed in Section 7.2 of this report.

NEP's objectives were closely aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS of December 1995,
reviewed April 1997), particularly in its emphasis on improving conditions for rural women and girls, and



                                                       - 2 -

 to help complement, support and inform the work of SAP (CAS para. 44). Toward achieving poverty
 reduction, the CAS emphasized improving social sector performance, and primary education in particular,
 by enhancing the overall efficiency of social services (CAS para 45). A Quality at Entry review judged as
 'highly satisfactory' the extent to which the project was clearly linked to achieving a specific CAS objective.

 3.2 Revised Objective:
 The objectives of the project were not formally revised.

 3.3 Original Components:

   Component                               Appraisal estimate total cost (US$ million)
                        TOTAL                IDA               GOP                DFID           Community
                                                                                                Contribution
1. Improving the           8.6               5.5                1.2                1.9               0.0
quality of
education
2. Increasing              18.7              11.3               4.9                0.2               2.3
equitable access
3. Strengthening           4.7               2.6                1.5                0.6               0.0
institutional
capacity
4. Community               4.0               3.4                0.1                0.3               0.2
participation
                           36.0              22.8               7.7                3.0               2.5


 NEP had four components:

 1.       Improving the quality of education by: (a) changes in teacher recruitment and training; (b)
 curriculum and educational materials development; and (c) development of assessment capacity.

 2.       Increasing equitable access by: (a) reconstruction of dangerous schools and construction of new
 school buildings for shelterless schools; and (b) in NA, participatory construction of buildings for
 community schools.

 3.       Strengthening institutional capacity by: (a) strengthening the management capacity of the
 Directorates of Education through organizational changes, the provision of limited additional staff, training,
 and technical assistance; (b) improving the information base for planning and management decisions
 through the conduct of baseline studies, rationalizing information flows and developing information
 management systems at the local level; and (c) conducting regular monitoring and evaluation of the
 five-year program. Monitoring and evaluation impact studies were incorporated into the project's design.

 4.       Community participation through: (a) in AJK, the establishment of school committees in existing
 Government schools through an NGO-led pilot scheme in a single district; and (b) in NA, continued
 support to and improvement of the existing community schools program started by the Directorate of
 Education under SAP.

 The quality of design is rated satisfactory as it accurately reflected the Borrower's priorities and capacities,
 both at the time of project preparation and those anticipated over the implementation period. The



                                                       - 3 -

components, sub-components and activities targeted the major requirements of the education systems in
AJK and NA which lacked many of the fundamental features and apparatus for effective system
functioning. The inclusion of strong technical assistance (TA) for the development of core capacities and
functions in the education systems of AJK and NA accurately reflected the outcome of an institutional
assessment undertaken at the time of project preparation which showed a strong need for both institution
and human resource capacity building.

Project preparation benefited from lessons learned through sector work in education and project experience
elsewhere in Pakistan. Prominent lessons highlighted, among others, the importance of: (a) having a
regional focus to mitigate implementation delays by limiting bureaucratic layers; (b) educating girls to
impact the total fertility rate, infant and child mortality, child immunization rates, nutritional status and
children's school attendance; (c) establishing program management within the normal administrative
hierarchy of regional Directorates of Education; (d) the availability of a strong technical assistance
package, particularly for strengthening existing management and administrative systems; and (e)
community participation in school management for its positive effect on learning outcomes and
sustainability.

The competence of the implementing agencies at the time of project preparation was low. This was
addressed by the project's strong emphasis on institutional strengthening. While the project placed
considerable demands on the implementing agencies in a number of areas where they had limited capacity
and experience, such as planning, the design and running of training programs and monitoring and
evaluation, these demands are judged to have been appropriate toward achieving the goals of developing
capacities and establishing a track record in these and other areas.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components and activities of the project were not formally revised. However, the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) was amended on December 11, 2000 after mid-term review to incorporate new
procurement guidelines and also adding a category 2(c) in Schedule 1 to provide TA support to Northern
Areas in view of DFID's unilateral freeze. Additionally, Schedule 1 of the DCA was revised annually to
reallocate Credit amounts to various categories as the initial Schedule 1 only allocated amounts for Year
One. The bulk of the credit was kept in an 'unallocated' category in-line with attempts to follow a more
flexible program approach.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
A Quality at Entry (QER) review was conducted by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group at the time of
project preparation and appraisal. The QER gave the project an overall satisfactory rating, with marginally
satisfactory ratings for institutional capacity and readiness for implementation, and a highly satisfactory
rating for consistency with CAS objectives. Financial management aspects were not rated, and institutional
and administrative capacities were rated marginally satisfactory. There was a high degree of certainty that
lessons learned in other projects in Pakistan to support the development of systems of primary education
had been sufficiently accounted for in the design of NEP, evidenced by the strong emphasis on community
and NGO involvement. The ICR also rates quality at entry as satisfactory overall. Implementation
readiness on the part of the Borrower was seriously assessed at appraisal. A first-year procurement plan
was ready at appraisal and procurement and financial capacity assessment were undertaken. A social
assessment and an economic analysis were not conducted as part of project preparation. Additional
discussion of issues pertaining to the project's QER rating of marginally satisfactory for institutional
capacity and readiness for implementation is found in Sections 7.4 and 8 of this report.

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified and discussed a range of risks -- design, implementation,



                                                       - 4 -

financial and political -- yet deemed the high priority of improving education in these neglected areas as
sufficient justification for assuming them. The review also rated as satisfactory the project preparation
team's attention to various types of risks. Risks assessed in this review related primarily to project-related
risks, rather than an analysis of country risks.

There were no major safeguard issues (e.g. environmental, social) raised, nor were any safeguard
provisions invoked at the time of project preparation. Rather, some benefit was expected through lower
population pressure, an increasingly literate population, and the possible integration of environmental
themes into revised educational materials. No involuntary resettlement was envisioned nor took place. Land
for school construction was acquired through voluntary community contributions, verified through a
community consultation process.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory based on the discussion in the following paragraphs
and the encouraging status of outcome indicators as reported in Annex 1. Achievement of the outcomes
becomes more significant when assessed in the context of:
   ·    the stage of development of each of the two implementation areas at the time of project preparation;
   ·    the prevailing system of education throughout Pakistan characterized by a low proportion of girls in
        school and poor quality of education as reflected in widespread low achievement of children in
        primary school; and
   ·    (partially as a consequence of the above two factors) IDA's own operational strategy in education in
        Pakistan which, at the time of project preparation, had moved from discrete, input-oriented projects
        to an increased emphasis on policy reform, institutional development, management, governance
        issues, increasing the number of girls in school, and expansion of public sector support for
        communities and NGOs.

Specifically, NEP has been successful insofar as it has made important gains toward achieving its
outcomes and targets with respect to:
   a) increasing access to primary education;
   b) improving equity, including increased gender balance in enrollments as evidenced by increase in
        percentage of girls from 30% to around 44% in Northern Areas, and from 36% to 47% in AJK, and
        improvement in the education system management;
   c) developing learning inputs, such as teacher training, locally developed textbooks, and increasing
        learning achievement by developing learning competencies which has provided an important
        foundation to guide materials development and developing student assessment capacities;
   d) establishing baselines, end-of-project testing and introduction of continuous assessment concepts,
        the results of which have shown some incremental achievement in student learning. There is
        increased awareness among teachers and education administrators of the importance of
        non-examination-based assessment and periodic evaluation of learning competencies achievement;
   e) establishing a reasonably well functioning DoE in each area where there are 100% positions with
        job descriptions, with increasing trends for forward planning, preparation of annual plans,
        monitoring activities according to plans, on-time reporting of monitoring results and the undertaking
        of studies to monitor impacts;
   f) developing a reasonably effective and systematic educational management information system with
        increased use of its data by other government departments and development partners, and increased
        capacity among directorate staff to manage and regularly update the EMIS; and
   g) establishing partnerships with NGOs and communities for more effective functioning of primary



                                                      - 5 -

       schools, especially in NA.

While planned targets may not have been achieved in some areas (e.g. development of new textbooks,
teacher training at the middle school level, etc.), important gains have been made across all major aspects
of education system functioning compared to the levels of functioning prior to the project. In some
instances, project targets have been exceeded.

Important progress has been achieved in promoting greater gender balance through the strengthening of the
management, administrative and organizational capacities within the education directorates in both areas at
the central and district levels. There is currently 30% representation of women in managerial,
administrative and supervisory positions. The increased allocation of managerial positions to women is
considered to be of particular importance considering that prior to the project there were no women in
education system management positions in NA, and few in AJK.

In assessing NEP's progress in the context of the level of education system development in each area when
the project began, particularly in NA, one can conclude that the project has laid the essential groundwork
for a reasonably well-functioning system of education in each of the implementation areas.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component                                                                            Rating
IMPROVING EDUCATION QUALITY                                                          S
INCREASING EQUITABLE ACCESS                                                          S
STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                                                 S
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION                                                              S

Component 1: Improving Education Quality

The objective of this component is to support policy changes, strategies and inter-related activities designed
to improve educational quality, including: (a) changes in teacher recruitment and training; (b) curriculum
and educational materials development; and (c) the development of assessment capacity.

(a) Teacher development
This sub-component focused on meeting the basic training and certification needs of new teachers and an
enormous backlog of untrained teachers. It has also focused on longer-term investments to expand the
potential pool of teachers, particularly women.

In AJK, a key achievement has been the reform of policies governing teacher re-deployment and
recruitment whereby teacher appointments are mapped to schools rather than to teacher training colleges,
teachers are selected for teaching positions on the basis of merit, and teachers and other education staff are
required to remain in a posting for a minimum of two years before being considered for transfer. A
comprehensive and flexible system of in-service teacher refresher courses was introduced training more
than 11,000 teachers, 44% being female teachers (each teacher was trained three times over the project
period) and exceeded project targets in terms of the number of teachers trained. According to a study
conducted in AJK, 58% of the teachers were using materials prepared under the project as compared to a
zero base at project preparation.

In NA, since there were no issues of teachers' deployment and most teachers in community schools were
untrained, therefore focus of the program was on Field-based Teacher Development (FBTD) Program of
five-months duration for primary school teachers (mostly community school teachers), and nine months'



                                                      - 6 -

training for middle school teachers. Targets were exceeded at the primary level, although covering only a
portion of the total teaching force with approximately 20 percent of all government primary school teachers
still untrained.

  Type of           Type of program                            Project Target Targets Achieved
  teachers
  Government        For Primary Teachers                             1000      1057 (M = 628; F = 429)
 Government         CT for middle school teachers                     450      384 (M=326; F= 58)
  AKESP             For primary teachers                             720       728 (M = 329; F = 399)

According to the findings of the longitudinal study in NA, teachers trained through FBTD program were
making wide spread use of teaching materials.

The project has sought to expand professional, academic and training opportunities for women by
constructing, equipping and staffing two female elementary colleges of education in Gilgit and Skardu. In
Gilgit, an existing men's college was adapted to accommodate female trainees, which is sufficient to meet
the current needs of the trainees. In Skardu, a new facility was established under the project. A new college
building at Gilgit was not built under NEP as planned due to a conflict concerning land ownership; once
resolved, it was too late in the project period to complete this major civil works activity. Investments in
books, materials and training have been provided to colleges. The project also sought to achieve an
increased supply of female teachers through a Non-formal distance education program. Sixteen study
centers and two pilot centers were established in two districts giving 460 girls access to secondary
education. This has been successful in changing social attitudes towards the education of girls, even though
the number of girls trained fell below the anticipated target.

(b) Curriculum and educational materials development
A key achievement has been the development of learning competencies by grade-level. While the use of
these competencies needs to be incorporated more into teacher training programs, especially at the
pre-service level, they have provided an important foundation to guide materials development and
assessment activities. Considerable attention was given to the quality of textbooks, particularly to make
textbooks more interesting, current and practical for students. Provision of these materials has started
showing signs of impact on student learning achievements as discussed in part (c) below. In AJK,
construction and furnishing of a new building for the Directorate of Curriculum Research and Development
(DCRD) and Educational Extension Center (EEC) was completed, as was the provision of library books,
learning materials and furniture.

(c) Assessment
Assessment activities have focused on two main areas: (a) baseline and end-of-project achievement testing;
and (b) introduction of continuous assessment concepts and practices to teacher trainers, curriculum
developers and teachers.

Criterion-referenced achievement tests were developed and administered to a sample of fourth grade pupils
in 2003. The objective was to determine if there had been any measurable improvements in learning
achievement of pupils since baseline achievement studies were conducted in 1999/2000. Tests found that
pupils performed somewhat better than in their pre-tests in Urdu, science and mathematics (1-4 percent
increase except in language for NA), although overall achievement levels were still rated between 'fair' and
'poor'. It is difficult to determine if activities carried out under NEP may have helped improve pupil
achievement as a longer period of time is needed to determine learning impact. Nonetheless, an important
achievement has been the development of capacity within the Directorates to carry out criterion-referenced



                                                          - 7 -

assessments. The systems of assessment of educational progress are expected to be further reinforced by a
national IDA-funded project covering all of Pakistan, and through the establishment of a new center for
national assessment of educational achievement in AJK.

Teacher guides on continuous assessment have been completed and distributed to teacher trainers,
curriculum developers and teachers. A simplified version of continuous assessment has been introduced as
a starting point for teachers, which mostly involves regular testing. Other accomplishments include the
establishment of district assessment cells with core teams, the integration of assessment activities with
EMIS data (a first in Pakistan), training with associated guides and materials, and awareness of learning
competencies and new assessment methods created at the school level.

Component 2: Increasing Equitable Access

The objective of this component was to improve the quantity, physical quality and gender balance of
elementary schools through the reconstruction of schools with dangerous buildings and the construction of
new school buildings for currently shelterless schools.

In AJK, buildings for 455 schools were completed with land mutated, exceeding a target of 350. Furniture
was supplied to 337 schools constructed during earlier phases. In NA, the construction of community
schools through the involvement of communities resulted in a large number of schools being completed; a
total of 436 schools were identified for construction and repair, of which 381 schools were
constructed/rehabilitated with mutated land. Constraints to this component in NA were: (a) the first two
years of the project were utilized in preparatory works which were necessary for the start of project
execution; (b) financial planning of the Directorate was not synchronized with the actual execution of
works; (c) yearly planning for targets was nonexistent, and there was no periodic monitoring of targets; and
(d) the performance of the Top Supervision Consultant (TSC) was not properly monitored. However, when
targets were defined for the last phases of work, achievement was very high, substantiating the potential
capacities of the Directorate and engineering cell. Construction of the remaining 55 schools in NA could
not be carried out due to conflict in the border regions and the unavailability of land in some areas.

Communities in NA showed a high degree of ownership and responsibility for managing schools, and
benefits from the community construction program were found in the areas of cost, quality and duration of
construction. The quality of construction has been good overall, with both the quality and quantity of labor
and materials controlled by communities through full-time supervision.

Enrollment:
NA: At the primary level, there was an overall enrollment increase of 59.3 percent from the baseline
enrollment figure of 74,087 to a total figure of 118,032 in 2002/03, exceeding the target of 102,150. (It
should be noted that enrollment is inclusive of 'un-admitted' (usually under-age but attending school, often
with an older sibling) and Aga Khan Educational Support Program (AKESP) schools as the SAR included
both in the baseline; thus, for the purposes of comparison, enrollment in AKESP schools and under-age
children (un-admitted and Katchi) are included in total enrollment for 2002-03.) The percentage of girls in
total enrollment increased from a baseline of 30 percent to a total of 43.6 percent, somewhat below the
project target of 50 percent. Important gains were achieved in gross enrollment rates (GER). Against a
baseline of 74 percent for boys and 35 percent for girls, there were increases to 79 percent and 65.5 percent
respectively (no specific target was set and nor is GER among the project monitoring indicators). If
enrollment in private sector and NGO schools is included, the GER rates are 104 percent for boys and 77.4
percent for girls. In community schools, the enrollment increase over seven years has been 112.3 percent
overall, broken down into 122.5 percent for boys and 105.6 percent for girls.


                                                      - 8 -

At the middle school level, there was an enrollment increase of 48 percent from a baseline enrollment figure
of 20,821 to a total figure of 30,814 in 2002/03, exceeding the target of 25,600. For GER, there was a
slight decrease for boys to 45.5 percent from 54 percent, but an important increase for girls from 18
percent to 29 percent. If enrollment in private and NGO schools is included, the GER is 49.1 percent for
boys and 30.2 percent for girls.

AJK: At the primary level, there was an overall enrollment decrease of 7.9 percent from a baseline of
423,061 to a total of 389,532 in 2002/03 against a project target of 535,300. It should be noted that
enrollment has shown both increases and decreases during this reporting period (e.g. increased from
1995/96 to 1997/98, decreased in 1998/99, and again increased in 1999-00, decreased in 200-01 and again
increased in 2001-02). These apparent fluctuations suggest a data collection problem attributed to frequent
changes in the data collection agency until after 1998 when the EMIS was introduced. Another reason
could be a shift to private schools as reflected in GER data which includes private schools. GER for
government schools decreased from a baseline of 101 percent for boys and 87 percent for girls to 79
percent and 74 percent, respectively. However, if enrollment in private and NGO schools is included, the
GER is 112 percent for boys and 99 percent for girls. These are higher than the baselines, and indicate a
trend toward taking children out of government schools and enrolling them in private schools. The
percentage of girls in total enrollment increased from a baseline of 36 percent to a total of 47 percent,
slightly below the project target of 50 percent. Future projects should also consider supporting private
sector in provision of quality education, especially where there is an increasing trend throughout the
country among the parents to send their children to private schools.

At the middle school level, there was an enrollment increase of 7 percent from a baseline enrollment figure
of 116,918 to 124,969 in 2002/03, falling somewhat short of the target of 148,000. For GER (including
private schools), there was decrease for boys from 75 percent to 58 percent, but a marginal increase for
girls from 44 percent to 46 percent. The decrease for boys and only marginal increase for girls may be
attributed to high drop-outs rates as a function of lack of access to middle schools in rural areas. The
establishment of middle schools was not included under NEP.

Completion
While enrollment rates provide important information pertaining to increased access of children to school, a
more meaningful understanding of the extent to which NEP has been able to move toward achievement of
its overall development objectives is revealed through examination of the number of children who
completed the full primary cycle to the end of grade 5.

Analyses were carried for two cohorts in both AJK and NA to determine completion rates. Cohorts were
followed from grade 1 to grade 5, from 1999 to 2003. The results of these analysis are presented in the
following table:

      AJK           Boys       Girls                    NA                      Boys     Girls
 Cohort 1          77%         75%      Cohort 1                               84%       82%
 Cohort 2          80%         82%      Corhort 2 (Community Schools           49%       57%

Progression rates at primary level are also improving. NA is close to attaining universal primary education
(UPE), expected by about 2006-07 if private sector enrollment is taken into account. AJK presents a more
complicated scenario with enrollment increases less than population growth rates. However, with private
sector participation it is estimated that AJK may attain UPE by 2015.



                                                      - 9 -

Component 3: Strengthening Institutional Capacity

The objective of this component was to support ongoing and planned efforts to: (a) strengthen the
management capacity of the Directorates through organization changes, the provision of limited additional
staff, training and technical assistance; (b) improve the information base for planning and management
decisions through baseline studies, rationalizing information flows and developing information management
systems at the local level; and (c) conduct regular monitoring and evaluation of the project.

(a) Strengthening the Education Directorates
Key aims of this sub-component were to bring about greater rationalization of staffing and closely align
staffing with tasks and functions introduced under the project, e.g. EMIS, school supervision, etc. All
staffing targets were met, with the exception of a limited number of AEOs. Job descriptions were developed
for all positions and the distribution of tasks between units and individuals has been largely equitable.

NEP has paid special attention to the training of managers. At the central level, all Directorate management
staff have received training in basic management. At the district and sub-district levels, district-based
education officers (DEOs, AEOs) have received training in financial management, planning, procurement,
community mobilization, and school supervision. Approximately 30 percent of all Directorate management
posts at the central and district levels are allocated to women, although current staffing levels remain below
this target at some levels of administration. Overall, however, greater gender balance has been an important
achievement, particularly in NA where prior to NEP there were no women at all in management positions
at the central or district levels.

A DFID-sponsored external review of education management in NA was carried out in June 2003. The
review concluded that the project has largely achieved its objectives, particularly in the areas of: (a)
staffing and organization at the central and district levels; (b) establishment of community schools; and (c)
community participation. Overall, staffing measures under the project have yielded increased professional
capacities in the Directorates and can be rated 'satisfactory' as an end-of-project outcome. The Directorate
and district level functionaries are preparing annual plans, monitoring their plans, and conducting studies to
measure impact of the inputs made through the program. This is in large measure attributable to the
considerable amount of high quality technical assistance and training. Sustainability of these inputs will
depend largely on the extent to which posts and HRD activities introduced under the project are included in
the recurrent budget.

(b) Improving Education Management Information Systems (EMIS)
This sub-component placed emphasis on strengthening staffing, improving data collection and verification
procedures, establishing understanding and incentives for information reporting and use, and the
establishment of a area-specific education information databases. The Directorates have issued annual
education statistics from 1998 to 2003. While there remain gaps in the databases, with incomplete
reporting from some schools, sufficient capacity has been developed for the gathering and processing of
education data. Education staff at the central, district and school levels show increased awareness and
understanding of the importance of using education data for planning and monitoring. EMIS data are also
now increasingly being used by other government departments and development partners.

An external review of this sub-component conducted in NA in June 2003 found that the establishment of an
EMIS has provided decision-makers with ready access to a broad range of indicators on school academic
achievement, school facilities, enrollment, staff, assets and school and settlement locations. Significant
achievements considered technically sustainable are: (i) electronic databases now are available on school


                                                       - 10 -

management, geographic distribution of education services (based on school mapping), personnel,
inventory, financial management, documentation warehousing, and testing and assessment; and (ii)
software systems in the EMIS are robust, integrated and suitable for further decentralization. The review
also pointed out the following weaknesses: (a) gender desegregation of some data is inadequate (e.g. gender
details of School Management Committees, or SMCs); (b) EMIS reports are not being distributed to
schools which, as a result, are not aware of their progress against performance indicators nor their status in
relation to other schools in the area; and (c) over-dependence on key technical staff. Overall, however, the
EMIS systems are capable of producing timely outputs of adequate quality and are considered one of the
most significant achievements of the project, especially starting with a zero base where no such system
existed.

(c) Strengthening monitoring and evaluation
The project design called for four main areas for monitoring and evaluation: (a) systemic monitoring by
educational management staff; (b) annual, mid-term and final reviews; (c) special studies/reviews for
specific project components; and (d) baseline and end-of project sample-based surveys of student
achievement. Technical assistance was provided at various stages during the project for implementing
monitoring and evaluation activities. Tools for carrying out systemic and regular monitoring and evaluation
of project activities included the EMIS, inspection reports from AEOs and DEOs, annual school results,
progress reports and minutes of meetings of coordination and monitoring bodies. To guide project
implementation and ensure continual monitoring of project progress, Implementation and Steering
Committees were established. Over the life of the project, both committees performed satisfactorily, thus
contributing positively to sound management and monitoring of the project (although in NA, the Steering
Committee did not meet as regularly as planned). Quarterly reports were prepared by the Directorates and
forwarded to IDA for review and feedback. The Directorates provided updated and timely progress reports
in advance of most IDA supervision missions. Final Project Completion Reports were provided to the ICR
mission. In NA, annual questionnaires, revised and updated annually since 1998, were provided to schools.
Other monitoring and evaluation tools included: (a) an annual longitudinal study of 25 schools for
information on many of the project's performance indicators (e.g. enrollment, impact of teacher training,
classroom practice, teachers' attitudes, physical facilities and school environment etc.); (b) identification of
draft quality indicators for schools; and (c) the establishment of baselines for indicators agreed during
project preparation.

A number of special studies were carried out, including: (a) Evaluation on Quality and Capacity Building
in AJK; (b) Budget and Expenditure Reviews; (c) Interim Evaluation Report on Education Management in
NA; (d) End of Project Review (external) in NA; (e) Interim Evaluation Report on EMIS in NA; (f)
Evaluation of FBTD in NA; (g) Community Participation in NA; and (h) Classroom Practices; (i) National
Assessments of Educational Progress/Post-Test Achievements of Fourth Graders and Changes Over Time
in Urdu, Science and Mathematics; (j) NRSP Report on Pilot Community Participation in AJK; and (k)
Research in Classroom Practices (see section 4.1). Overall, the quality of these reports is judged to be
satisfactory, and they have contributed importantly to the ICR's task of assessing achievement in specific
project areas. The monitoring and evaluation systems are judged to be sustainable.

Component 4: Community Participation

The objective of this component in AJK was to undertake a pilot activity as a first step in the establishment
of school committees in all existing government schools; in NA it was to increase community participation
by improving the existing community schools program as a central feature of Government's strategy to
increase education quality and access. Both represented an important first steps toward empowering
communities to manage their own affairs and improve the quality of education one school at a time.


                                                      - 11 -

In AJK, an NGO was engaged to train field staff in community mobilization and establish and train
Parent/Teacher Associations (PTAs)/School Management Committees (SMCs) in all schools. Targets were
exceeded with the formation of 160 SMCs, the training of 642 members and 160 chairpersons of SMCs,
and 106 Directorate officials. The Directorate has since sought to establish SMCs elsewhere, including
4,300 primary schools and 1,994 middle schools, and has provided training to approximately 600 SMCs.
Guidelines for the functioning of SMCs were printed and distributed to most schools in AJK. An 2001
evaluation of this pilot showed that SMCs formed using the established criteria were more effective than
those formed without such support; the latter often characterized by an irregular number and the
non-representative selection of SMC members, a lack of regular SMC meetings and weak capacity to
generate community interest support for schools. SMCs formed through NGO support were not only
focusing on enrollment increase, but also providing additional facilities to the schools in the form of
boundary walls, latrines, and in a few cases, furniture.

In NA, achievements under this component are impressive: (a) the establishment of 1,465 SMCs/PTAs
(target was 800); (b) provision to schools of guidelines for the functioning of SMCs; (c) cluster training of
18,771 SMCs members in financial management, planning and supervision, 68 AEOs in community
mobilization and 18 resource persons in school improvement planning; (d) production and distribution of
newsletters; (e) formulation of a school improvement policy and quality indicators for monitoring and
supporting schools; (f) study visits for AEOs; (g) increased involvement of mothers; (h) grants to NGO
schools and scholarships to 1,080 talented students to encourage private sector development initiatives; (i)
reduction in dropout and absenteeism; and (j) increased coordination between communities and government
institutions. Financial support was given to 543 eligible community schools via a monthly per child subsidy
of Rs. 60 per month. This has enabled schools to pay teachers' salaries, purchase school supplies and
learning materials, and carry out facilities maintenance. All the school buildings in NA were constructed by
the communities who now show a greater sense of ownership to the schools and the need to improved
management.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An analysis of the benefits and costs of the NEP was carried out, reveling that the project generated an
internal rate of return of 22%, assuming 5% unemployment, and 16% assuming 10% unemployment. The
streams of costs and benefits were calculated over a 15-year period, starting from 1997/98, when the
program began. The time period of 15 years was chosen assuming that the costs and benefits of the
program would persist throughout the life of the capital investments, and thus beyond the length of the
program itself. Benefits were calculated as the net present value of the incremental increase in
wages earned by students who completed primary or middle school as a result of the project.
Costs included total project costs, estimated operational costs beyond the life of the project, direct
costs to parents of sending a child to school, and the opportunity cost of attending school, namely
foregone wages.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As this was the first World Bank-funded project for education for either of these areas in Pakistan, the
institutional development impact was high. This was particularly the case in NA and at the district and
school levels in both areas, measured against the levels of institutional capacity at the start of the project.
Overall, increased institutional capacity is a major achievement under the project, and is a key reason for
the satisfactory rating of achievement of development objectives.



                                                     - 12 -

Institutional development was achieved through individual units in both directorates having primary
responsibility for implementing project activities, as well as through the input of technical assistance
leading to skills and knowledge transfer to government counterparts. Important gains were made in
institutional development at the decentralized levels of education system functioning by assigning
responsibility and strengthening local capacity in districts and schools, particularly among AEOs and
school heads, respectively. Capacities were built up at the district and school levels for school construction
and rehabilitation, school mapping, and district-level teacher and education staff development activities.
Staffing measures carried out under the project have yielded increased professional capacities. This is in
large measure attributable to the considerable amount of high quality technical assistance provided through
DFID funding in NA, through IDA funded technical assistance in AJK, and other training programs under
the project.

The strongest evidence of increased capacity at the central level is that a number of activities are now
carried out on a regular basis which were not part of the normal functioning of the system prior to the
project, including the capacity to run an EMIS. Other evidence is the number of posts established for
specific functions using new skill sets, strengthened planning and coordination, and better collaboration
with NGOs and school management committees. Far-reaching changes were also achieved in terms of the
capacity to set policy, largely as a result of exposure through TA which brought, for the first time in these
areas, the application of international good practice. However, at the district level, institutional
development to support quality improvement was less assured because the capacity of AEOs to provide
meaningful supervision and support to teachers remains weak.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementation was often slow because of difficulties in reaching remote school and district education
offices. At various times over the life of the project, access was impeded by bad weather, and in NA a
major earthquake and heavy rains seriously limited access to schools and district education offices.
Following the nuclear tests carried out by both India and Pakistan in May 1998, funding from the British
Government through DFID was suspended for more than a year. This had a major impact on project
implementation in NA, as almost all technical assistance for NA under the project was funded by DFID.
The Directorate of Education's program design, and the Bank's investment in it rested almost entirely on the
provision of technical assistance by DFID, particularly for carrying out the training and capacity
development activities. Construction was delayed as a result of the DFID suspension as all site engineers
were to have received training and salaries through DFID support. The suspension also had a strong impact
on assessment and testing activities which were particularly dependent on the timely availability of external
TA. Following the terrorist attacks in the United States in September 2001, all expatriate consultants were
pulled out of Pakistan. For a period of several months, international experts could only provide assistance
through email and telephone, with the exception of a very limited number of brief field visits. Tensions
between India and Pakistan in the Kashmir region impeded project activities in parts of AJK and NA
located near to the disputed Line of Control. Supervision missions were unable to visit these areas, and
GoAJK consistently cited insecurity as a reason for not being able to implement certain activities in areas
adjacent to the conflict zone.

Prevailing cultural and societal norms governing gender relations and the role and status of women can also
be understood to have impeded project implementation. While this issue does not neatly fit into the category
of 'factors beyond the control of government or implementing agency', as there are actions that can be taken
at the institutional and/or individual levels to support increased gender equity and balance, the very strong



                                                      - 13 -

cultural and social pressures governing the role of women and, in particular, women's integration into the
world of work, can be considered to be factors influencing the implementation of activities under NEP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Two major factors which impeded implementation and were largely under the control of the Government of
Pakistan and/or Government of AJK and the NA administration were: (i) divergent IDA and GoP rules for
procurement, particularly concerning the purchase of vehicles, and (ii) numerous transfers of Directors of
Education and other changes in Government. There were serious delays in vehicle procurement as
approvals from the Federal Government were stalled pending NOC to waive import restriction and because
of questions as to the real need to purchase vehicles. The continual transfer of key personnel was
particularly problematic in AJK, which had two project directors and five secretaries of education in five
years. Similarly, in NA the federal Ministry of Kashmir Affairs was unable to complete the appointment of
a Director-General of Education at any time during the project implementation period. This issue was
raised during nearly all supervision missions in the middle and latter years of the project, but remained
unresolved up to project closure, with the federal ministry stating that the position would be established
after the project closed in order that it can be supported under the recurrent budget.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The start up of implementation following project effectiveness was slow. There were initial lengthy delays
in the development and clearance of procedures and documentation pertaining to the community
construction of schools. There were also delays in the processing of withdrawal applications due, in part, to
slow responses on behalf of the World Bank. In AJK, the staffing arrangements for accounting officers
were not followed in the early part of the project, there were some internal accounting control lapses, and in
the initial years of the project, there was high turnover of accounting staff. There was a delay in the
mobilization of consultants and the desired outputs were not available until near the end of the project. In
NA, audit issues consistently called attention to the need for increased involvement of senior management
in addressing financial management issues. A financial management manual prepared for the project did
not comprehensively cover the financial management procedures for community school construction/civil
works. This required the keeping of manual registers which could not be properly maintained and made it
difficult to verify information.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost was estimated to be US$36 million of which IDA committed US$22.8 million
equivalent in financing. Due to SDR vs. USD exchange rate fluctuation, the dollar equivalent came down to
US$22.20 million at closure. Close to US$4.183 million (SDR 3.10 million equivalent) of the credit
amount was cancelled in two cancellations in (a) November 1999 (US$ 0.088 million) for misprocurement
because the Government of AJK cancelled a bid for three jeeps due to import restrictions, which had
previously been approved by the Bank, and in (b) January 2003 (US$ 4.095 million) at the request of GoP
as a result of low disbursement levels, higher exchange rate of Pakistani Rupee against dollar and revised
expenditure projections. At project closure, there was an unused credit balance of US$0.9 million and an
amount of US$ 17.13 million has been disbursed from the Credit. While expenditures were lower than
originally envisioned, most activities were achieved. A single high value item -- construction of the female
teachers' training facility in Gilgit -- was not completed, lowering the amount expected to be utilized from
the Credit. Another cause of under-expenditure was the lower construction target achieved under
community construction -- 381 buildings completed instead of the planned target of 490 (an additional 68
buildings were constructed with Government financing).

Component                                                            Cost*




                                                      - 14 -

IMPROVING EDUCATION QUALITY                                           US$ 8,600,000
INCREASING EQUITABLE ACCESS                                           US$18,700,000
STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY                                           US$ 4,700,000
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION                                               US$ 4,000,000
* includes physical and price contingencies

Disbursements were slow during the first two years of project implementation due to: (i) lengthy delays in
the development of procedures and documentation pertaining to the community construction of schools, and
the processing of withdrawal applications; (ii) divergent IDA and GoP rules for procurement, particularly
concerning the purchase of vehicles; and (iii) numerous transfers of Directors of Education and other
changes in Government. Prior to the Mid-Term Review in June 2000, additional delays were encountered
as a result of the temporary suspension of DFID-funded technical assistance in response to regional
geo-political tensions. At the end of the project period, unforeseen natural occurrences in NA in November
2002 limited access to more remote parts of the region. Additionally, depreciation of the Pakistani Rupee
against the US Dollar by over 40 percent over the life of the project (from Rs.40 to Rs.57 to the Dollar)
partially explains the existing non-utilized proceeds from the Credit.

During the initial years of the project, audit reports were received incomplete and late. Bank remedial
measures were exercised when audit reports were not received. Ineligible expenditures were reported in the
FY00 audit report for which an equivalent amount was recovered. In the latter years of the project, audit
reports were received complete and in a timely manner.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as likely. There are six main reasons for this rating:
    1. regional, district and school education management was strengthened by the methodologies,
         expertise and products developed under the project for a number of key education sector functions,
         including: (a) school mapping and EMIS; (b) school construction and rehabilitation; (c) central
         level planning and coordination; (d) decentralized in-service teacher training; and (e) student
         evaluation;
    2. implementation agencies in both areas showed considerable capacity, political will and enthusiasm
         to achieve a significant number of targets in the latter part of the project, suggesting that both the
         will and the capacity exists, given the right circumstances, to carryout education system
         development measures;
    3. all posts created under the project have been moved onto the recurrent budget;
    4. communities have demonstrated a keen interest to support local schools through a variety of means,
         including support to teachers' salaries and school construction/rehabilitation;
    5. even though considerable TA was needed to support institutional capacity strengthening and TA
         was disrupted severely during key implementation periods, that which was carried out appears to
         have effectively transferred knowledge and skill to local counterparts; and
    6. parents now place increasing importance on educating their children, including girls.

However, gains made under the project could be diminished or lost if appropriate measures are not taken to
ensure their sustainability: (a) in NA, the continued capacity of communities to support their schools,
including the provision of salary payments to teachers and the regular maintenance of facilities, provided
for during the project under the per child subsidy scheme; (b) in NA, opportunities for girls to gain high
school education, provided under the project through the AIOU distance learning program; (c) in both
areas, training for DOE/DPIEE staff at all levels; and (d) in both areas, the on-going provision of quality
textbooks and teachers' guides in sufficient numbers.


                                                      - 15 -

A calculation of government spending required to maintain the benefits of the project now in place, and
given projected enrollment and population growth, reveals that sustained increases in expenditures will be
required beyond those attributed to economic growth. Assuming per student recurrent costs remain at the
level of 2001/02, recurrent expenditures will have to increase by about 4.5 percent per year. This is in-line
with estimated average GDP growth (around 5 percent) over the next several years. If recurrent costs rise
by 3 percent annually -- approximately half the rate of increase over the course of the project -- government
expenditures will have to increase by an average of 8 percent per year. Assuming GDP growth averages 5
percent, government spending as a percentage of GDP will have to continue to rise.

The current expenditure in both areas is affordable except that present arrangements for supporting
community schools in NA through endowment funds are inadequate due to very low profit rates offered by
commercial banks. However, the government is committed to sustain these community schools for which
MoKANA is considering various options including support through regular recurrent budget.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
During the final year of the project the Directorates were encouraged to assess sustainability and propose
sustainability strategies for each activity. Most project activities have been integrated into the regular
functioning of the Directorates in both areas. Planning and coordination functions are well entrenched, and
there is an expectation on the part of staff at all levels (central, district and school) for continued
professional development opportunities through regular training. This has been an important shift in
mindset and professional attitude brought about largely through the project's HRD inputs. The fact that
most project activities were carried out through the regular units of each Directorate, rather than by a
Project Implementation Unit, has contributed to a smooth transition from project to non-project phases.
GoP has provided assurances that funds will be available to sustain on-going activities and build upon
gains made across project components.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The lending process was carried out in a satisfactory manner on the part of the World Bank. The concept
paper, reviewed in March 1995, clearly presented a sound justification for a project in AJK and NA,
emphasizing that these areas are among the poorest and, in the case of NA, most under-served in Pakistan.
It also emphasized that IDA would be a true lender of last resort, as there were virtually no other donors
able to operate in these areas. The initial project design aimed to maximize the involvement of NGOs and
communities, and sought to benefit from the efforts being made at the time under SAP. The Bank showed
patience and commitment to the cause of such neglected, backward and disadvantaged areas, and focused
not only on deliverables, but on outcomes and on helping the Directorates get ready to implement the
project. Project appraisal was undertaken from February to March 1996. As this was the first Bank-funded
project supporting education in these areas, particular attention was paid to implementation capacities,
including procurement and disbursement arrangements. In hindsight, however, it appears that even more
support was required for increased implementation readiness in order to avoid the delays which were
eventually encountered.

At the time of project concept development and review, a Government of Japan-funded PHRD grant,
totaling USD 254,000 (after a cancellation of USD 174,000), had been secured for project preparation,
covering the cost of consultant services, equipment and limited operating expenses. The grant supported a
number of studies and working papers on key issues to be addressed through project components, as well as
development of a project preparation report and draft project implementation plan. Staffing of the project



                                                       - 16 -

identification, preparation and appraisal missions was carried out in such a way as to ensure a strong mix
of skills and experience, both on the part of the IDA team and other development partners. Project
preparation included two NEP preparation workshops organized by education authorities in AJK and NA
which resulted in the establishment of a number of committees charged with preparing papers on key
themes.

The risks identified during preparation pertained to: (i) design; (ii) implementation; (iii) financing; and (iv)
political factors. These proved to be accurate. For example, the risk that heavy emphasis on community
participation in construction may mean that this activity would move more slowly proved to be real, as
during implementation there was considerable difficulty in developing and agreeing guidelines for
community construction. Similarly, the risk that executing agencies' relatively weak institutional capacity,
lack of experience with Bank requirements, heavy internal bureaucracy and high turnover of key managers
and staff also proved to be problematic during implementation, particularly the high turnover of key
managers and staff in AJK. However, efforts to establish sufficient ownership of the project within each
government were undertaken as a means of partially mitigating institutional capacity risks.

7.2 Supervision:
The ICR rates Bank supervision satisfactory. A QAG supervision review conducted during project
implementation also judged the quality of supervision satisfactory in terms of fiduciary aspects, adequacy
of supervision inputs and processes, and realism of project ratings. The Bank carried out a total of ten
supervision missions from May 1998 to March 2003, approximately two per year. A Mid-Term Review of
the project was carried out in June 2000. Only two task managers were responsible for the entire lending
operation and supervision, with the second task manager taking over early on (mid-1999), resulting in good
continuity of task leadership throughout the full implementation period. Supervision teams were comprised
of a solid mix of appropriate Bank staff and external consultants. AJK's relatively close proximity to the
World Bank Country Office in Islamabad allowed for occasional informal supervision support to be
provided in between full supervision missions. Bank supervision missions were largely effective in
identifying problems and issues as they arose, and providing feasible solutions to address them. For
example, after experiencing unilateral one-year freeze of DFID support in Northern Areas, a sub-category
2-C was included in the DCA through an amendment of December 11, 2000 after mid-term review to
support TA. However, the project may have benefited at the time of Mid-Term Review from revised
indicators which included more quantitative indicators and analyses as a means of shifting the focus of
implementation and supervision to more qualitative outcomes.

There were, nonetheless, three areas of difficulty in supervising this project:
    1. Lengthy delays in the development and clearance of procedures and documentation pertaining to
         the community construction of schools, and the processing of withdrawal applications by the Bank
         caused significant delays in the early years of the project;
    2. There were two distinct geographic areas for implementation. Each supervision mission was, in
         effect, two missions requiring two sets of discussions and wrap-up meetings with Government, two
         sets of field visits and consultations with communities and NGOs, separate aide-memoires for AJK
         and NA, plus a third consolidated aide-memoire for MoKANA; and
    3. Frequent lack of easy access to NA because of strict limitations on the operation of aircraft to
         Gilgit due to the mountainous terrain and unpredictable weather often resulted in long delays and
         limited time for carrying out supervision missions.

There is some inconsistency in the reporting of dates for supervision missions as documented in PSRs and
aide-memoires. Some lacked comments from Bank management. Nonetheless, each supervision mission
ended with a well-documented (if at times overly lengthy) aide-memoire, including current status of activity



                                                      - 17 -

implementation, issues to be addressed and recommendations. Findings were summarized and
communicated to the Borrower through regular management letters. The project was at no time a problem
project despite numerous unforeseen events, including the nuclear tests, September 11, earthquakes,
torrential rains and continuous fighting in the border areas.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating for the Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. The primary factors for this rating are
the consistency in task team leadership throughout the life of the project, as well as recognition on the part
of the task teams that, as the first IDA-funded education project in either of the implementation areas,
considerable attention to the on-going needs of the Borrower was necessary as each Directorate became
familiar with the Bank's rigorous requirements. While there were delays at the start of the project
attributed, in part, to slowness on the part of the Bank, on balance, preparation and supervision were
well-planned and executed and carried out with an strong level of client support.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's contribution to project preparation is rated satisfactory. Bank missions acknowledged
Government's full engagement and participation during the preparation phase, and in particular,
Government's recognition of the importance of fully engaging both NGOs and communities in the design
and implementation of activities to support both increased access and quality improvement. It was agreed
from the start that a central element of NEP would be the development of partnerships between
Government, NGOs and communities, and that NGOs would play a technical assistance and training role.
It was understood that Government and NGOs already had a strong working relationship and that some
NGOs had extensive experience in providing a range of education services in the region. NEP built upon
existing levels of trust, familiarity and operational know-how between communities and NGOs.
Governments in both areas prepared complete sets of terms of reference for the special studies and other
documentation needed as part of the preparation phase, including a project preparation report and project
implementation plan. Each Directorate established a Project Preparation Working Group to carry out
analysis of key education themes.

It took a total of two years and seven months for preparation to move from concept review to Board
approval. Effectiveness took place in February of 1998. At appraisal, the Board presentation was estimated
for December 1996. However, Board approval only took place in October 1997. This delay was
attributable to the fact that being the first Bank or donor project of this nature and magnitude in these
areas, local officials were unfamiliar with how Bank works and, consequently, took a long time to deliver
on prerequisites (e.g. preparation of an education strategy, draft job descriptions, etc). These processes
were further slowed by the fact that there was only one Deputy Director assisted by two to three Assistant
Directors with a few clerks, particularly in Directorate of Education NA, responsible for primary to college
education. The original project was reduced by 40-45% because the GoP Planning Commission and
Ministry of Finance did not agree to allocations for NA and AJK; this re-scaling took place after appraisal,
leading to a `re-appraisal' of sorts. Finally, clearances from legal, finance and other relevant GoP ministries
took a long time.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, implementation performance of the three Governments involved in the project (AJK, NA and
Federal) is rated satisfactory. The performance of the two regional Governments is to be judged in the
context of this being the first IDA operation to take place in the education sector in each area. One
disconcerting matter, however, concerned the appointment of a Director-General of Education for NA.
While successive supervision missions were assured that this would be undertaken in the near future, it



                                                      - 18 -

appears there was little intention to do so until project closure when the position could fall under the
recurrent budget.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
On balance, and accounting for the factors outlined in section 5.3 of this report, the implementation
agencies' performance is rated satisfactory, even though on some occasions, particularly in the early years
of the project, some issues were flagged in a timely manner by Bank supervision teams and the
implementing agency did not respond accordingly. Steering and implementation committees were
established in each area, and despite some early lapses in their functioning, they served the project well.
The frequent transfer of the Education Secretary in AJK was disruptive, but overall consistency in the
project manager and component heads largely offset this. In NA, the suspension of DFID-funded technical
assistance was disruptive, but clearly out of the control of the Directorate which made its best effort to
ensure continuity in activities, even though implementation (particularly training and HRD activities) were
seriously curtailed and led to unavoidable delays in the implementation schedule which were never
regained. For this reason, the Bank granted two extensions of the project Closing Date, totaling one year
and three months beyond the Closing Date agreed at negotiations. In order to avail of available Credit just
prior to project closing, exceptional efforts were made by both Directorates in the final months and weeks
of the project, thus allowing for the majority of targets to be met.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The ICR rates Borrower overall performance satisfactory. The Directorates of Education in both areas
demonstrated strong commitment to the project overall, and a consistent willingness to work toward the
achievement of its targets.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons for Preparation
Need for more clearly defined priorities for action: As this was the first IDA-supported education
operation in these areas, a more modest set of targets may have helped bring sharper focus and attention to
a more doable set of activities to be implemented under the project. While a wider range of issues were
addressed under the project, the skill and personnel capacity limitations of the Directorates, particularly in
NA, appears to have yielded the more modest gains found in the areas of decentralized monitoring and
support to schools through AEOs, and improvements in learning achievement as a function of inputs for
improved in-service training of teachers and curriculum/textbook reform.

Need for more accurate assessment of financial and time requirements: A more careful analysis of
priorities and 'doable' actions would have allowed for a more appropriate allocation of resources (less
money was required in NEP) and estimate of the period required for implementation (more time was
required in NEP). The Borrower and the Bank were overly optimistic during project design by allowing an
implementation period of only 4.67 and 4.33 years from the time of Board approval and date of
effectiveness for such a complex project. The task team and Government should be commended, however,
for the foresight and judgement to decide upon both extensions and cancellations when it became apparent
they were required.

Need for more accurate assessment of institutional capacities: There is an important distinction between
the capacity of an implementation agency prior to implementation -- that which is required from the outset
in order for the borrower to begin implementing the project -- and the capacities to be built through the
project. In NEP, more attention should have been paid to the readiness of the implementation agencies and
implementation readiness should have been completed prior to effectiveness. For example, if guidelines for



                                                      - 19 -

community construction of schools had been prepared and agreed prior to effectiveness, more effective use
of both time and resources may have been possible, even if that caused a delay in effectiveness.

The challenges of two implementation areas: While AJK and NA shared the same development objective
and components, different activities were implemented in each. Preparation and supervision activities were
carried out separately for each, requiring two sets of field visits, aide-memoires and wrap-up meetings, in
addition to a final, consolidated aide-memoire and wrap-up meeting with federal authorities in Islamabad.
Authorities in each area expressed their belief that their area is sufficiently distinct from the other that it
would have been better to have had separate operations, particularly in AJK which was more experienced
in education system development than NA at the start of the project. Separate operations for AJK and NA
for any possible subsequent operations may bring sharper focus to the specific requirements of each area,
and make preparation and supervision more effective.

Need for adequate back-up provisions when inputs are contingent on each other: The project was
seriously handicapped in NA by placing all technical assistance under DFID sponsorship without any
back-up provisions. The unilateral one-year freeze of DFID support hampered implementation of a number
of activities contingent on technical assistance and training. A more formalized back-up strategy may have
helped to reduce the negative impact of the DFID suspension on the project. However, after experiencing
this problem, a sub-category 2-C was included in the DCA through an amendment to support TA in case it
could not be provided by DFID.

The need for recognition of collective reinforcement of community development: NEP represents an
important step in the empowerment of communities to manage their own school affairs -- a result not just of
work carried out under NEP, but of numerous rural community development initiatives over many years.
Lessons learned from other successful community practices should be disseminated and, where possible,
new community school mobilization activities should be undertaken where there is the presence of other
reinforcing community mobilization programs and include the participation of those having a successful
track record.

Lessons for Implementation
The challenge of changing teacher practices in classrooms: Changing teachers' practices from
methodologies using rote learning and 'chalk and talk' approaches to more child-centered, activity-based
teaching-learning styles is difficult. Measures to improve teaching methodologies should include support
for teachers in their own classrooms. This can be achieved through a network of resource teachers who
undertake regular school visits to support and guide teachers in their own schools and classrooms.

The importance of engaging communities to support schools in underserved area: In NA, the model of
community schools is arguably one of the most advanced in the region. Communities have given land
(scarce in this area) and labor to build schools under the supervision of the Engineering Department of
Directorate. The community contributes to the cost of materials for construction, the quality of which is
good. The community receives a subsidy proportional to enrolment, the proceeds of which are used to hire
local female teachers. These schools benefit from strong commitment from and interest of the community.
The benefits of community involvement in support of schools is evident -- the number of community
schools has increased significantly and children, who otherwise would have had no access to schooling, are
learning.

Need to ensure good planning and coordination: The Steering and Coordination Committees established
in each area provided effective guidance and oversight, mainly during the middle and latter years of the
project. However, the work of these committees was less effective in the earlier years, particularly in NA.


                                                     - 20 -

While the establishment and functioning of these committees was included as a legal covenant, more
support from the Bank to ensure compliance would have contributed to more effective and timely
implementation at the project's outset.

The need for gradual phasing of new educational concepts: The introduction of new educational
concepts to teachers and education officials requires a realistic assessment of what the final outcomes
should be over time, and an understanding of when to introduce different aspects of each new concept. This
approach was lacking in the introduction of continuous assessment under NEP. Teachers in areas where a
simplified version of the concept was introduced found it easier to use. Where too many requirements were
placed too quickly on teachers, they were more inclined to reject the concept as too difficult.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
From NA
NEP has been a successful educational development program because of its innovative and
specially-designed strategies for increasing the level of education access, quality, equity and gender
sensitization, and for strengthening capacity development and community participation in NA. No doubt
NEP has achieved exemplary success of its targets envisaged under four main components with 21
sub-components

The main impacts which reflect in quantitative and qualitative terms are 100 percent increase in primary
level of institutions, 62 percent over all increase in enrollment with 108 percent increase in girls'
enrollment, enhanced level of literacy, which ultimately improved economic productivity and income
earning potential for both sexes, improved learning achievement through better trained teachers, more
appropriate materials, low/no cost teaching materials, improved lesson delivery, attractive learning
environment, reduced teacher absenteeism/dropout, improved school management, assured resources for
end uses, created job opportunities to thousands of communities which resulted in poverty reduction,
reduced cost and time in construction with ensuring quality by involving communities, which created sense
of ownership amongst them and increased enrollments.

The achievements/impacts of the project based on the reports and studies of external evaluators,
independent organizations and international/national consultants, suggest that the project over all has been
a great success although it has run into difficulties due to an unstable international environment, natural
climate specific to the geographical condition of the NA, the DFID suspension of funds due to nuclear
issue, disturbances due to Afghan and Kargil conflicts, delay in preparation of guidelines and criteria for
construction and grant, lengthy NOC procedures, delay in disbursement, disruption in flow of funds,
especially in the last one-and-half years, and late start of construction work i.e. in March 2001, which was
50 percent of the total Project base cost. The NA Administration as well as donors feel that the good work
done by the Project with foreign assistance should not stop here. These good practices need to be continued,
consolidated, and replicated. The challenge now is how achievement made under NEP/NAEP can be
sustained and identify possible sources of funding to support these activities to carry out leftover activities
for the benefit of the millions of deprived children of NA. It is important that activities continue at primary
level, need to be expanded to higher secondary level and also ensure sustainability of the 541 community
schools and 18 study centers which were not taken into account in the Project life. In order to fully address
the above issue, it is highly desirable to conceive and implement follow on phase of NEP/NAEP.

From AJK: NEP has supported the AJK program for development of elementary education. The project has
been implemented successfully to achieve the target set for the improving quality of education. The project



                                                       - 21 -

has been an innovative program for increasing the level of access, quality, equality and community
participation in AJK. Education studies conducted during and end of the project period reflect positive
impact on increasing enrolment and retention rate at elementary level, enhancing professional capabilities of
teaching staff, increasing access and balancing equity, improving management and supervision system and
strengthening institutional capacity.

The achievement made through the project has been appreciated by different quarters because in some
areas the achievement level exceeded even 100%. This is due to better coordination between AJK
administration and the World Bank Resident Mission in Islamabad. Like other projects, NEP has also faced
hurdles and difficulties during implementation. Particularly disturbance prevailed on Line Of Control,
which delayed the program of construction work. Other factors such as procedural conflict in procurement
of schools and services, delay in disbursement of funds and approval from the Bank also sometimes delayed
program implementation. However, issues were solved with patience and activities continued and the
project ended with significant success. Now the question is sustainability of NEP activities to obtain full
benefits of inputs. AJK administration feels that level of support should be extended to secondary level and
a follow-on project be designed and implemented for bridging the gaps left over during implementation of
NEP.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The achievements of the NA government, with the support of NEP (funded by the World Bank) and the
Northern Areas Education Project (NAEP ­ funded by DFID) have been significant. The project has, to a
large extent, achieved its objectives. There has been good progress in decentralized district management
system. The project has paid special attention to training of managers. District Based Management
Training Program (DBMT) was launched and delivered to all districts. The Education Management
Information System (EMIS) was established in the NA for the purpose of providing a planning and
monitoring tool to the Department of Education. Innovations for teaching, curriculum and assessment have
contributed to raising the quality of education in NA. These include a field-based teacher development
program, teachers resource centers, teacher training colleges for women teachers, teachers' guides and new
text books (together with the desktop publishing facilities to continually upgrade these materials), texts for
English language teaching in primary schools, libraries for school clusters and a school improvement
program. Community participation in education has been particularly successful, including school
construction, school development planning and management. At the end of the project, there has been
significant increase in GER for boys and girls at the elementary level. Gender has been a focal area of the
program with special attention given to supporting new female staff.

The key sustainability issues arising from the NEP and the NAEP are:
1. Leadership: There is a need to fill the key position of Director General (DG) for education.
2. Staffing: Staff need to be recruited and placed on the regular payroll for the cluster-based training
    program.
3. Community Schools: Policy decisions need to be taken to address the following key areas for
    community schools: Given the fall in interest rates, what alternative to the endowment mechanism can
    be used to ensure adequate long term funding for these schools? How should these schools be
    constituted so they retain a degree of autonomy? Should the community schools program be extended;
    if so, how?

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 22 -

Not applicable




                  - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Student achievement scores, grade four (in   Not fixed. Expected increase was 1-2% as      NAs: Lang=48%; Math=39% (increased by
first and last years of project)             all inputs could not reach schools before the 2% but language showed a decrease)
                                             last year of the project.                     AJK: Lang=37%; Math=37%; and Sci=40%
                                                                                           In AJK, scores increased: from 8.47 to 9.15
                                                                                           in Urdu (8% increase); from 7.64 to 7.97 in
                                                                                           science (4.3%) and from 8.56 to 9.50 in math
                                                                                           (10.9%).

For access and equity:
number of children enrolled in elementary    NAs: 102,150 (primary); 25,000 (middle)       NAs: 118,032 (primary); 30,814 (middle)
education                                    AJK: 535,300 (primary); 148,000 (middle)      AJK: 389,532 (primary); 124,969 (middle);
                                                                                           *NB: data was incomplete as a number of
                                                                                           schools in AJK had not reported enrollment
% of girls in elementary enrollment          NAs: 50%                                      NAs: 43.6%
                                             AJK: 50%                                      AJK: 47%
Class-wise progression rates by gender       25% increase by year five                     19% increase (enrollment figures as proxy)

It should be noted that indicators in the SAR are not delineated between outcomes and outputs. All
reporting of indicators in the 15 PSRs prepared during project implementation were reported only as
outcome indicators. The presentation of indicators in this ICR delineates between outcomes and outputs.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of teachers with credentials      95% (primary); 90% (middle)                   NA: 80% (primary); 100% (middle) including
                                                                                           trained through FBTD Program
                                                                                           AJK: 93 (primary); 93% (middle)
Percentage of teachers receiving             100%                                          NAs: 100%
FBTD/INSET                                                                                 AJK:100%
Timely completion of procurement             100% annually                                 Most procurement completed, but late.
Timely creation of annual plans              100% annually                                 100%
Percentage of activities implemented         100% annually                                 Most activities implemented, but with delays.
according to plan
Percentage of observed lessons using         No end-of-project targets established.        NAs: Longitudinal study: widespread use of
materials                                                                                  teaching aids by FBTD teachers.
                                                                                           AJK: Approximately 58% of teachers using
                                                                                           teaching aids.
Percentage of observed lessons using         No end-of-project targets established.        NAs: Longitudinal study: widespread use of
continuous assessment and multi-grade        Teachers trained in continuous and            by FBTD teachers.
materials                                    multi-grade materials.                        AJK: 85%
Percentage posts with job description        100%                                          100%
Request for EMIS data                        Request from all levels of management,        Widespread use by government departments
                                             evidence of use.                              and development partners. Some example
                                                                                           include use in site selection, per-child
                                                                                           subsidy, school clustering etc.
Timely completion of M&E functions           100% annually                                 AJK/NA: On-time reports and annual plans.
                                                                                           Evaluation studies and surveys conducted
                                                                                           (during and at close).
Amount raised by communities for             Some funds from communities; Used for         SMC targets exceeded (160 established,
expenditure on repair and learning materials learning materials                            target 150). Few SMCs raised funds for
in AJK                                                                                     learning materials (govt provided). Funds for
                                                                                           construction and teachers pay.

1 End of project




                                                                - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                               Estimate        Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                              US$ million    US$ million
Improving Quality of Education                                    8.30               6.63             79.8
Increasing Equitable Access and Support to Community             16.30             15.44              94.7
Schools
Strengthening Institutional Capacity                              4.40               6.74            153.2
Community Participation                                           3.80               3.08               81

Total Baseline Cost                                              32.80             31.89
 Physical Contingencies                                           1.20
 Price Contingencies                                              2.00
                          Total Project Costs                    36.00             31.89
                   Total Financing Required                      36.00             31.89
Note: US$ 4. 18 million (SDR 3.06 million) were cancelled during currency of the project and US$ 0.89
million are being cancelled at the close of the project.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB                2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                               0.00             10.40         4.50            2.30          17.20
                                      (0.00)            (7.00)      (3.00)           (0.00)         (10.00)
2. Goods                               1.20              2.90         0.90            0.12           5.12
                                      (1.10)            (2.50)      (0.90)           (0.00)         (4.50)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00         3.70            2.90           6.60
Institutional Development             (0.00)            (0.00)      (3.20)           (0.00)         (3.20)
and Training
4. Grants-Community                    0.00              0.00         3.10            0.00           3.10
Support & NGOs
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)      (3.00)           (0.00)         (3.00)
5. Incremental Salaries                0.00              0.00         2.20            0.00           2.20
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.60)           (0.00)         (1.60)
6. Operating costs and                 0.00              0.00         1.60            0.20           1.80
Travel and Daily                      (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.40)           (0.00)         (0.40)
Allowances
    Total                              1.20             13.30        16.00            5.52          36.02
                                      (1.10)            (9.50)      (12.10)          (0.00)         (22.70)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                               0.00             7.87         5.83            0.49           14.19
                                      (0.00)            (4.75)      (4.35)          (0.00)         (9.10)
2. Goods                               0.47             1.77         0.38            0.00           2.62

                                                     - 25 -

                                          (0.45)              (1.59)             (0.11)            (0.00)           (2.15)
   3. Services                             1.35                0.27              1.15              7.01             9.78
   Institutional Development              (1.28)              (0.26)             (1.09)            (0.00)           (2.63)
   and Training
   4. Grants-Community                     0.00                0.00              2.12              0.00             2.12
   Support & NGOs
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)             (2.12)            (0.00)           (2.12)
   5. Incremental Salaries                 0.00                0.00              2.35              0.00             2.35
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.92)            (0.00)           (0.92)
   6. Operating costs and                  0.00                0.00              0.83              0.00             0.83
   Travel and Daily                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.21)            (0.00)           (0.21)
   Allowances
       Total                               1.82                9.91              12.66             7.50             31.89
                                          (1.73)              (6.60)             (8.80)            (0.00)          (17.13)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works (including community construction in Northern Areas) and goods to be procured through national
      shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
      services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
      government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.          IDA          Govt.       CoF.       IDA      Govt.    CoF.
Improving Quality of           5.50        1.20         1.90          1.45         0.58         4.60      26.4     48.3     242.1
Education
Increasing Equitable          11.30        4.90         2.50          10.07        4.88         0.49      89.1     99.6      19.6
Access and Support to
Community Schools
Strengthening Institutional    2.60        1.50         0.60          3.50         1.79         1.45     134.6     119.3    241.7
Capacity
Community Participation        3.40        0.10         0.60          2.11         0.01         0.96      62.1     10.0     160.0




                                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Internal Rate of Return

An analysis of the benefits and costs of the NEP was carried out, revealing that the project generated an
internal rate of return of 22% (assuming 5% unemployment), and 16% (assuming 10% unemployment).
The streams of costs and benefits were calculated over a 15-year period, starting from 1997/98, when the
program began. The time period of 15 years was chosen assuming that the costs and benefits of the
program would persist throughout the life of the capital investments, and thus beyond the length of the
program itself. It is likely that the life of the capital investments is longer than 15 years, thus the estimates
can be considered conservative in this sense. The following assumptions were used in the calculation.

Benefits from the program:

The stream of benefits is derived from the higher wages earned by the increased number of primary and
middle school graduates. The incremental changes in enrollment in the 5th and 8th grades for primary and
middle school, respectively, were taken as the incremental number of graduates attributable to the program.
(Data on dropout rates were unavailable, however, dropout rates for the final year of schooling are
typically very low.) The difference between the average wage of someone with no schooling and the
average wage of a primary school graduate is taken as the wage differential attributed to completing
primary education. Similarly, the difference between the average wage of a primary school graduate and
that of a secondary school graduate is taken as the differential attributed to completing secondary school.
Average wages by educational attainment were calculated by Jamal, Toor, and Khan (2003) using data
from the 2001-02 Pakistan Integrated Household Survey. The data report average wages for Pakistan as a
whole, not only NA and AJK. Wage data for NA and AJK were not available.


        Average wage of worker with no education (PKR/month)                                    1738
        Average wage of worker with primary education (PKR/month)                               2135
        Average wage of worker with middle education (PKR/month)                                2809

        NPV of earnings differential; primary graduate (PKR)                                    34,015.2
        NPV of earnings differential; middle graduate (PKR)                                     32,249.9


The stream of benefits were calculated based on these differentials and the pattern of wage growth over the
working life in Pakistan (also based on data from the 2001-02 PIHS). The net present value of this stream
taken over 40 years was then calculated using a discount rate of 12%. Two scenarios were estimated: one
in which unemployment is assumed to be 5% and one in which unemployment is assumed to be 10%.

The incremental number of graduates beyond 2003 (the last year of the project) was estimated based on the
growth rate of enrollment during the project (calculated individually for NA and AJK and for primary and
middle school) and the estimated population growth rate of 2.6% in AJK and 2.3% in NA (taken from the
1998 census). Because of the uncertainty of some of the enrollment figures in the early years of the
program, particularly in AJK, growth rates in some cases were calculated using 1997/98 as the base year.
It is assumed that benefits to the project do not start accruing until one full year after the program began.
Thus, the first benefits cited are those earned by new graduates in 1998/99; benefits to them begin accruing
in 1999/00. As NA is expected to reach UPE by 2006, taking into account enrollment in non-public



                                                         - 27 -

schools, the enrollment growth rate for primary school in NA beyond 2006 is assumed to equal the
population growth rate. It is estimated that UPE in AJK will not be reached until 2015.

The stream of benefits arising from the project were then calculated by multiplying the incremental number
of graduates attributable to the project by the NPV of increased earnings over their working life.

Note that this analysis captures only the direct monetary returns to increasing educational attainment. The
benefits of education, however, have been shown to extend beyond monetary gains. Research has
demonstrated that educating girls in particular reduces fertility rates, improves nutrition, increases the
probability that future generations will be educated, and so on. It was not possible to quantify these effects
for the purpose of this report, however.

Costs of the program:

The stream of costs estimated include the direct program costs, operational costs beyond the end of the
program, direct costs to parents of sending their children to school, and the opportunity cost of attending
school. Total costs of the program over 1998-2003 were US$32 million. Annual projected costs after 2003
included 3% of total capital costs (US$14.2 million) for needed maintenance and upkeep, and operating
costs, calculated as the recurrent cost per student multiplied by the incremental number of students
attending school as a result of the project. The recurrent cost per student was calculated as 2050.5 rupees
in 2002. This figure is estimated to grow by 3% per year. The opportunity cost of attending school for
primary students is estimated at one-half the average wage of a worker with no education. It is assumed
that 20% of enrolled primary students would otherwise be employed for wages. The opportunity cost of
attending school for secondary students is assumed to be one-half the average wage of a worker with a
primary school education. It is assumed that 50% of enrolled secondary school students would otherwise be
employed for wages.

The direct cost to parents of sending a student to elementary school is cited in the SAR as 600 rupees per
year in 1996. It is assumed that the cost for secondary school was 800 rupees per year, and that both of
these costs would grow by 3% per year.

Fiscal Sustainability

This estimation attempts to determine the level of recurrent spending that must be achieved to maintain
improvements that have been introduced into the education systems in AJK and NA as a result of NEP. To
do this, a rough calculation of required funding was made using projections of enrollment and population
growth, as well as current and past levels of per student recurrent expenditure.

Projected enrollment of the student-age population over the next 10 years is as follows:

Enrolment Projects for NA:
   NA               2003/04 2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10        2010/11 2011/12 2012/13
Primary     Male    63188    66979   70998     75258   76763    78298     79864    81462     83091   84753
enrollment
            Female  47819    52123   56814     61927   63166    64429     65717    67032     68372   69740
           Total    111007  119102   127812    137185  139929 142727      145582   148493    151463  154492

Middle      Male    16862   17536    18238     18967   19726    20515     21336    22189     23077   24000
enrollment
            Female 6796     7340     7927      8561    9246     9986      10784    11647     12579   13585



                                                     - 28 -

           Total    23658     24876   26165   27528     28972   30501    32120      33836   35656    37585


Enrolment projections for AJK
AJK                 2003/04    2004/05 2005/06  2006/07  2007/08 2008/09  2009/10  2010/11 2011/12 2012/13
Primary     Male    207898     216214  224862   233857   243211  252940   263057   273580  284523  295904
enrollment
            Female  187348     196715  206551   216879   227723  239109   251064   263617  276798  290638
           Total    395246     412929  431414   450736   470934  492049   514122   537197  561321  586542

Middle      Male    86566      90029   93630    97375    101270  105321   109534   113915  118472  123210
enrollment
            Female  64001      67201   70561    74089    77794   81683    85767    90056   94559   99287
           Total    150567     157230  164191   171464   179064  187004   195301   203971  213030  222497


For AJK, these projections are based on a population growth rate of 2.6 percent annually (source: 1998
Population Census), and the average enrolment growth rate over the past three years. For NA, the projected
population growth rate is 2.3 percent (source: 1998 Population Census), and enrolment growth rates are the
average over the past six years.


                           Total enrolment Total enrolment      Total recurrent        Recurrent cost per
                           in NA           in AJK               expenditures (million student
           Year                                                 Rs.)                   (Rs.)
           1996/97              72008            552101                 755.1                 1209.8
          1997/98               85434            574189                 846.8                 1283.8
          1998/99              107395            496911                 928.5                  1536.5
          1999/00              110991            506908                1004.1                  1625.0
          2000/01              116086            469479                1092.9                  1866.4
           2001/02             120816           475246                 1222.2                 2050.5

A rough calculation of recurrent cost per student, taking enrollment figures from the EMIS and actual
program expenditure figures (source: Akbar study), show a steady increase in the recurrent cost per student
from Rs1209.8 in the base year to Rs2050.5 in 2001-02. The issue raised in the main text of the ICR
concerning reported enrolment rates in AJK, which appear do decline between 1996-97 and 2001/02,
applies here. Note that these figures include both community schools, for which the per student recurrent
cost to Government is presumably lower, and Government schools. These figures are also not adjusted for
inflation, which averaged around 4 percent annually over the past five years. The Directorate of Education
of the NA cites the recurrent cost per student per year at Rs1098 for Government schools, and Rs818 for
community schools. These figures appear to be low, particularly given that the SAR cited a figure of
Rs1277 per student per year in the NA for 1992-93. It seems unlikely that this figure would have declined
over the course of the project. An outside evaluation of the project conducted by an independent consultant
calculates the recurrent cost per student for primary school in the NA at Rs1855 (in 2001-02), rising more
than 51 percent since 1998-99. This figure seems in line with those given above, which include both
primary and middle school students, the per-student cost of the latter is likely to be higher. The overall
increase in cost is presumably due to the increase in teacher training, quality improvements, new materials,
and other inputs introduced under the project.

The SAR points out that the level of recurrent resources needed to sustain quality improvement,
institutional development and infrastructure investments is likely to be low, particularly given the increased
involvement of communities in the maintenance of school buildings. It is likely, however, that spending on
improving educational quality (teacher training, etc.) will have to be maintained at current levels, as well as


                                                      - 29 -

some of the spending on institutional development. Further, given that salaries make up about 90 percent of
recurrent costs, it is not likely that the level of recurrent costs needed to sustain the program improvements
will fall. However, the rate of increase, an average of about 11 percent annually, may slow.

The level of recurrent spending needed to sustain current operations and to accommodate increased
enrollment are given below, assuming, first, that the level of per student recurrent cost remains the same as
in 2001/02 and second, that the cost rises by 5 percent annually. Drop out and repetition rates for 2001/02
are assumed to remain constant.

Projected recurrent costs required to sustain program benefits (million Rs.)

                 2003/   2004/5    2005/    2006     2007      2008/      2009/      2010/     2011/    2012/
                 04                06       /07      /08       09         10         11        12       13
     Total       1929.6  2015.8    2105.8   2200.1   2298.5    2401.3     2508.9     2621.3    2738.8   2861.6
     recur. cost
     (Constant)
     Total       1987.5  2138.6    2301.2   2476.2   2664.3    2867.3     3085.6     3320.6    3573.5   3845.8
     recur.
     Cost (3%
     incr.)




Recurrent costs will need to increase by an average of about 8 percent annually, assuming that recurrent
costs will increase by 3 percent annually in order to maintain program benefits, and by an average of about
4.5 percent annually if costs remain at current levels. It is unlikely that GDP growth alone will account for
this increase, particularly in the former case. Annual GDP growth since 1996 has averaged around 3
percent; projections through 2005 put average real GDP growth at 5 percent annually. Thus, in order to
maintain program benefits, it is likely that Government will have to continue to increase recurrent spending
as a percentage of GDP in the foreseeable future. Government budgetary projections were unavailable for
comparison.




                                                        - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/1995                   8    EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST/TTL (5)
                                             OPERATIONS SPECIALIST (1)
                                             PHYSICAL PLANNER (1) FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/1996                   5    EDUCATION
                                             SPECIALIST/TTL (2) FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1), Financial
                                             Analyst (1)


 Supervision

              05/1998                   4    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             HUMAN RESOURCE SPECIAL
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              11/1998                   3    MISSION LEADER (1); TEAM         S               S
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              06/1999                   3    EDU.SP./TSK LEADER (1);          S               S
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/ARCHITECT
                                             (1)
              12/1999                   8    EDU. SP./TEAM LEADER (1);        S               S
                                             CONSULTANT/ENGINEER (1);
                                             LEAD EDU. SP. (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SP. (1); FIN.
                                             MANAGEMENT SP. (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ANALYST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT
                                             PROCUREMENT (1)
              06/2000                   8    EDU. SP./TASK LEADER (2);        S               U
                                             FIN. MGT. SP. (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1); ENGINEER/CONSULTANT
                                             (1);PROCUREMENT SP. (1);



                                              - 31 -

                                            FIN. MANAGEMENT SP.
                                            (1);OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               12/2000                 2    EDU. SP./TASK LEADER (1);          S    S
                                            ENGINEER/CONSULTANT (1)
               06/2001                 4    EDU. SP./TASK LEADER (1);          S    S
                                            FIN. MGT. SP. (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                            (1); ENGINEER/CONSULTANT
                                            (1)
               12/2001                 4    SREDU. SP./TASK LEADER             S    S
                                            (1); FIN. MGT. SP. (1);
                                            ENGINEER/CONSULTANT (1);
                                            DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)
               6/2002                  1    SREDU SPL./TASK LEADER             S    S
               11/2002                 2    SREDU SPL./TASK LEADER             S    S
                                            (1); CONSULTANT ENGINEER
                                            (1)
               6/2003                  5    SREDU SPL./TASK LEADER             S    S
                                            (1); CONSULTANT ENGINEER
                                            (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                            ANALYST (1); SR. FMS (1);
                                            CONSULTANT
                                            PROCUREMENT (1)

 ICR
               09/2003                      SREDU. SP./TASK                    S    S
                                            LEADER (3);
                                            DISBURSEMENT
                                            ASSISTANT (1);
                                            ENGINEER/CONSULTAN
                                            T (1); PROCUREMENT SP.
                                            (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                            ANALYST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               41                           149
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    91                           184
  Supervision                            189                            318
  ICR                                      25                            65
  Total                                  346                            716




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Akbar, M., Northern Education Project, Budget and Expenditure Review (1997-98 to 2002-03). June
2003.

Ashraf, M.A., Northern Areas Education Project, Interim Evaluation Report on Education Management,
June 30, 2003.

Bokhari, S.I.H., Northern Education Project, Evaluation Report on Quality and Capacity Building
Component of NEP, June 30, 2003.

British Council, Northern Areas Education Project, Interim Evaluation Report on EMIS, June 2003.

Government of Pakistan, Department of Education, NA, Encyclopedia/Progress Report on Northern
Education Project for World Bank ICR Mission. August 27, 2003.

Government of Pakistan, Directorate of Public Instruction, AJK, Northern Education Project, Project
Completion Document. August 15, 2003.

Government of Pakistan, Education Department, Monitoring Cell, NA, Component-wise
Progress/Achievements of the NEP. August 15, 2003.

World Bank, Aide-Memoires from Supervision Missions, 1998-2003.

World Bank, Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2992 PAK, November 5, 1997.

World Bank, Environment Data Sheet, January 20, 1995

World Bank, Final Executive Project Summary, Pakistan Northern Education Project, February 26,
1996.

World Bank, Implementation Completion Report for the Balochistan Primary Education Project, May
30, 2000.

World Bank, Identification, Preparation and Appraisal Missions Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoires,
Back-to-Office Reports, 1998-2003.

World Bank, Project Status Reports, 1998-2003.

World Bank, Quality at Entry Assessment, Year QEA1.

World Bank, Quality of Supervision Assessment, QSA Year: QSA3.

World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Pakistan, Northern Education Project, Report No. 15830-PK,
September 30, 1997.

World Bank, Summary of Negotiations, August 5, 1997.




                                                  - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Report from Northern Areas (Borrower's Comments)

Introduction

A decade ago, primary education in the Northern Areas was at its lowest ebb in general, but girls'
education, in particular, was negligible. Despite its strategic importance and international
attraction, the Northern Areas has been the most marginalized and backward region of the
country.    The education system (which is the engine of progress) suffered from several
constraints, including: lack of appropriate facilities, weak management capacity, and inequitable
access which consequently resulted in low standards and inequitable/inadequate coverage.

It was for the first time in over fifty years of development that an IDA project was offered for
Northern Areas to bring about suitable changes in the educational system with particular reference
to primary education. The Northern Education Project (NEP) was a development intervention
financed by the GOP, IDA, DFID and Local Communities to improve: (a) quality of education;
(b) provide equitable access; (c) strengthen institutional capacity, and (d) mobilize community
participation. The total Project cost was Rs. 950.000 million, out of which the local cost was Rs.
190.000 million, and the foreign aid cost was Rs. 760.000 million. The project aimed at providing
technical and financial support to the Northern Areas Education Department through active
involvement of local communities.

The Northern Education Project (NEP) (1998-2003) was launched in February 1998 for
improvement and expansion of elementary education (especially for girls) through multi
dimensional intervention to:

i)      Improve Quality of Education
ii)     Provide Equitable Access of Education
iii)    Strengthen Institutional Capacity
iv)     Strengthen Community Participation/Mobilization

The Department of Education has ensured a lot of improvements through the Northern Education
Project. Progress of work and achievements made has been the highest when compared with other
foreign assisted projects of the country. Despite this, 100% achievement of targets was not
possible due to uncontrollable constraints, i.e., late implementation of the project, suspension of
DFID, earth quake, procedural delays and formulation/approval of new rules and regulation. The
achievements of the Project have been laudable and impressive, some of which are mentioned
below:

Achievements

A.      Improving Quality of Education

·       Established two female Elementary Colleges at Gilgit & Skardu.
·       Provided support in the shape of teaching material, laboratory supplies, vehicles, teaching
        kits, library books and AV Aids to the 03 elementary colleges.



                                               - 36 -

·   Constructed one Teacher Female Training College with hostel and lab school at Skardu
    and provided furniture and kitchen equipment, whereas GCET at Skardu could not have
    been constructed due to time constraint and land dispute.
·   Trained Instructors of 3 Teacher Training Colleges and also sent on foreign study tours.
·   20 Local Authors trained, developed cultural friendly Textbooks and Teachers Guide
    (Class 1-V).
·   Trained 3000 primary school teachers in teaching in My 1st & 2nd English Book.
·   Trained 80 teachers, 140 teachers, 30 teachers in FBTT, language and author of books.
·   Trained 334 teachers, 52 AEOs and 34 DACTM in assessment.
·   Established eighteen(18) girls study centers in remote and culturally sensitive areas of
    Diamer and Ghanche Districts through AIOU where 480 girls enrolled and more than 300
    passed matriculation and few of them joined as teachers in their areas.
·   2169 Teachers out of 2170 were Trained through Field Based Teacher Training
    (Government + AKES) with a unit cost of 0.014 per trainee under FBTT (Govt.).
·   Established computerized item analysis, testing and assessment system.
·   Established fully equipped DTPU, EMIS Cells at central/district, M&E, Technical Cell and
    Academic Cell.
·   Developed competencies list and introduced Testing & Assessment System for the first
    time in N.As.

B. Increasing Equitable Access

·   Constructed 381 out of 490 community/shelterless/dangerous school buildings (78%); 295
    out of 265 boundary walls (111%); and 295 out of 275 sanitary units (107%) through
    communities, and provided quality furniture.
·   Low construction costs as compared to other construction agencies and improved quality
    with sense of ownership (cost comparison i.e. by PWD 650 per cft. by AKES 700 per cft.
    And through communities by NEP 430 per cft.), which is 21% and 39% less than others.
·   Trained 1905 artisans against 900 during construction (mason, electrician, carpenter &
    plumber).
·   Transfer of technology to local communities as well as to Management in record keeping,
    procurement, FMS etc.
·   Created job opportunities to thousand of communities, which resulted in poverty
    reduction.
·   Fully equipped engineering cell established and staff trained in local construction
    techniques, maintenance, insulations of buildings and training in financial management etc.

C. Strengthening of Institutional Capacity

·   402 new posts operationalized.
·   Developed capacity of more than 750 Directorate and District Education Officers in the
    use of Management, Planning & Financial Tools with 18% of female participation.
·   Developed GIS, M&E, FMS, Guidelines for Community, Construction, Per Child
    Subsidy, General Planner, Distribution Booklet, Profile & News letters etc.



                                           - 37 -

·      30% management positions allocated to females creating gender balance.
·      Established an electronic Information resource system and decentralized to the district
       level.
·      Established Monitoring & Evaluation system.
·      Developed financial management system, job descriptions, guide lines and manuals for
       construction and teacher training.
·      Support provided in the shape of equipment, furniture, vehicles and AV Aids upto grass
       root level.
·      More than 30 management employees of central and districts enjoyed foreign study tours
       by DFID.
·      All technical assistance, 119 training & workshops, 5 study visits abroad and equipment
       support provided by DFID.
·      The specialist of the World Bank on visit to various areas during their supervision mission
       played a vital role in shape of transfer of technology to the management of DoE, which
       improved their management skills in planning, procurement, disbursement, audit &
       accounting and FMS.
·      The training of management extended by DFID consultants also played a vital role in
       transfer of technology and new techniques with international vision.

D.     Community Mobilization

·      68 AEOs trained in community mobilization.
·      1465 SMCs/PTAs established and guide lines prepared and distributed.
·      18771 SMCs/PTA members trained during project cycle in FMS, Planning, Procurement,
       Record Keeping, Supervision & Monitoring etc.
·      School Development Planning by SMCs.
·      Provided grant for 213 NGO schools (Rs. 11.283 m) scholarship to 1080 talented students
       (Rs. 1.029 m) of NGO schools during project implementation from regular budget.
·      Provided support in shape of per child subsidy to 543 community schools upto 30th Sept.
       2003 (122.529 m).
·      Developed School Improvement Policy and quality indicators for monitoring and
       supporting schools, 18 resource persons trained in SIP.
·      126 schools clusters formed, library books provided and 303 schools were targeted.

The Northern Education Project (NEP) IDA Credit No. 2992-PAK closed on September 30,
2003. Where this project has met a large number of educational needs of the Northern Areas, it
has also laid down a sound basis for further consolidation and development of the education
system in the areas.

There is a need for consolidation of gains made under the project, and to also properly address the
unmet needs in several areas of educational development. The Northern Education Project
focused only on primary education. However, the needs of primary education in the Northern
Areas could not be met through one project alone.




                                                - 38 -

As mentioned earlier, the focus of the NEP was to: (a) Improve Quality Education, (b) Equitable
Access, (c)    Management & Governance, and (d) Increase Community Participation at the
primary level alone.

As it was the first time that the Northern Areas was going to work with donors, there were
several apprehensions about the capacity of the implementing agencies. Therefore, the focus of
NEP in Northern Areas particularly, was only on primary education.             Even within primary
education, it was not possible for one project to meet all their needs.

The project has made several gains, which need to be consolidated, and at the same time it has
identified gaps in improving quality access, management and strengthening public participation. It
has also created demand for education of children at the middle and high school level.
Communities are demanding facilities for middle and secondary education levels.

Impacts

·       Increased access in primary level institutions.
·       62% overall increase in enrolment with 108% increase in girls enrolment.
·       Professionally trained teachers are using current techniques to achieve quality.
·       Establishment of academic cell for text book development.
·       Local authors trained and developed textbooks teacher guides, low cost and no cost
        materials and supplementary aids for the institutions.
·       Desk top publishing unit established, staff trained in publishing of text books.
·       Teachers trained in learning outcomes curriculums, lesson plans, competency based
        teaching, testing system and they are using quality indicators for schools improvement.
·       Use of better observation and questioning techniques.
·       Better use of teaching resources and environment in lesson development and teaching
        learning process.
·       Better monitoring of student attainments.
·       Increased access through new school construction.
·       Community participation helped decreased student absenteeism/dropout.
·       Decision making decentralized to the district level due to the use of EMIS information.
·       Planning, monitoring improved due to the involvement of communities.
·       Creation of economic benefits for local communities.
·       Created job opportunities for thousands of communities which resulted poverty reduction.
·       International & national exposure of management and teaching staff enhanced their vision.

Sustainability Issues

·       There is need to fill the key position of Director General for Education Department for
        coordination purposes.
·       Policy decisions need to be taken to address the issue of continuity of community schools.
·       Policy decisions need to be taken to address for the future of study centers.
·       The initiatives launched under the project need to be continued and extended upto



                                                 - 39 -

     secondary level.
·    Continuity of training program and Testing & Assessment process.

Recommendations

·    The most important lesson learnt is that whenever a project is materialized it should be
     thoroughly visualized and planned so that the new institutions/organizations in programs
     are provided regular financial support even after the end of the project so that the future of
     these activities could be sustained.
·    Guidelines and criteria etc. should be finalized before project effective date.
·    Sustainability of 543 Community Schools by mainstreaming of these schools with regular
     education sector for budget purpose only. However, the management of these schools
     may remain with the communities.
·    Sustainability of existing 18 study centers for girls by mainstreaming with regular
     education sector for budgetary support only, whereas the management with the
     communities.
·    Launching of consolidation follow on NEP Phase-II to ensure sustainability/strengthening
     and further evolution of project activities through donors assisted program.
·    Technical assistance to be needed from donors for Human Resource Development and
     Education Planning.
·    In order to ensure smooth flow of fund, Government/Donor relationship needs
     streamlining.
·    Simplification of procedures.
·    Project team to be identified and their sustainability ensured for keeping the momentum of
     the project activities.
·    Coordination and information sharing should be strengthened amongst DoE, FD, P&D
     and Audit & Accounts during implementation of the Project as well as arrangement of
     their capacity building.
·    Proper communication between Project managers and field staff.
·    Updating of data's on regular basis.

     NEP Financier-wise share according to PC-I and utilization up Sept. 30, 2003
     S.    Main Financier              Allocation          Utilization      % Expdt.
     #
     1.    IDA                         486.000             488.976          101%
     2.    DFID                        274.000             425.526          155%
     3.    GoP                         157.800             144.926          92%
     4.    Community                   032.200             033.913          105%
           Total                       950.000             1093.341         115%




                                              - 40 -

- 41 -

