Report No. PIC1922
Project Name                    Pakistan-Northern Education Project (@)
Region                          South Asia
Sector                          Education
Project ID                      PKPA37834
Borrower                        Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Implementing Agencies           Federal Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and
Northern Areas; Northern Areas (NA)
Department of Education; and Azad Jammu
and Kashmir (AJK) Department of Education
Contacts: Mr. Mehr Dad, Secretary,
Education, Health and Local Government,
Gilgit, NA (Phone: 0572-2388)
Ms.Ifat Saleem, Director, Public
Instruction (EE), Department of
Education, Muzaffarabad, AJK
(Phone: 058-3824)
Date of initial PID            March 23, 1995
Appraisal Date                  February 29, 1996
Tentative Board Date            July 8, 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background:    Although Pakistan has experienced
substantial economic growth in the past two decades, its social
indicators are considerably worse than most other countries at similar,
or lower, levels of economic development. Its literacy rate is
estimated at 29 percent. Primary gross enrolent rates are about 58
percent (lower for girls) and primary education completion rates remain
low, from 4.8 percent in rural Balochistan to 51 percent in urban
Punjab. Currently, the Government of Pakistan gives high priority to
improving social services as evidenced by its implementation of the
Social Action Program (SAP), which IDA, along with ADB and other donors
is helping to support. The Northern Areas are among the areas with the
lowest educational indicators. The literacy rate of 15 percent reported
by the 1981 Census (24 percent for males and 3 percent for females), was
below the national average. Gross enrolent rates are well below 50
percent. The NA faces problems of school access, quality and
management. Azad Jammu and Kashmir's gross enrolent rate in primary
education is much higher at about 95 percent. But at 43 percent the
literacy rate is still low (female literacy is only 12 percent). Rapid
expansion in the recent past has resulted in low quality of facilities,
teachers and other educational inputs. The main challenges in these
areas remain the improvement of the quality and performance of existing
schools, the enrolent of rural girls, and the planning and management of
the elementary education.
2.   Project Objectives:    (a) to improve the quality of education by
increasing learning achievements and completion rates in elementary
education; (b) to increase access and retention of students,



particularly females; (c) to strengthen institutional capacity to plan
and manage education programs; and (d) to encourage greater community
and NGO participation.
3.   Project Description: The proposed Northern Education Project would
cover elementary education through grade 8, with emphasis on the primary
years, particularly for girls.   Consistent with the goals of building
Government ownership, this project will be developed with substantial
input from government, in part with the assistance of the Multi-Donor
Support Unit (MSU). The project will make maximum use of NGOs such as
the Aga Khan Education Service (AKES), which have strong background in
community mobilization and development.
4.   To achieve its objectives the project will support: a) increased
learning achievement by establishing an appropriate teacher training
system, developing and improving the availability of better
instructional materials, and developing valid and reliable student
assessment instruments and techniques; (b) increased access and
retention of students (particularly girls) through improvement and
expansion of available facilities, increased employment and training of
female teachers, provision of scholarships for girls to enable them to
complete schooling and become teachers, and upgrading of girls' primary
schools to middle schools where enrolent is sufficient; (c)
institutional capacity building through further development of
educational management information systems, basing school
location/upgrading decisions on school mapping exercises to bring
schools closer to children's homes, training supervisors and managers,
and upgrading the planning and monitoring function within the
departmentsof Education; and (d) encourage greater community and NGO
participation by reorganizing the school management structures to
strengthen dialogue and joint decision-making, to improve community
contributions to physical facilities and to expand cost sharing
initiatives.
5.   Project Implementation:   The lead implementing agencies will be the
local education authorities in NA and AJK, working in close partnership
with the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas, the federal
authorities (Ministry of Education) and the NGOs active in the areas.
6.   Project Cost and Financing: The total project cost is estimated at
about US$ 68 million, of which the Government of Pakistan would finance
US$ 14 million. The IDA contribution is expected to be approximately
US$ 51 million, leaving US$ 3 million to be financed by the communities.
Most procurement is expected to involve small contracts suitable only
for local competitive bidding and prudent shopping, which would follow
the government's procurement procedure.
7.   Poverty Category: Program of targeted interventions.
8.   Environmental Aspects: No adverse environmental impact from the
proposed project is expected. There will be a series of small
construction contracts as part of the operation, and implementing
agencies will be required to ensure that appropriate environmental
protection measures are taken as part of each construction contract.
- 2 -



Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 14, 1997.
- 3 -



