Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 15830-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
September 30, 1997
Education Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs.)
US$1.00 = Rs.40.50 (as of June 1997)
GOP FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ADP                      Annual Development Plan (Development Budget)
Assistant Education Officer
AIOU                     Allama Iqbal Open University
AJK                      Azad Jammu and Kashmir
AKDN                     Aga Khan Development Network
AKESP                    Aga Khan Education Service
AKRSP                    Aga Khan Rural Support Program
BEd                      Bachelor's of Education
CRDC                     Curriculum Research Development Center
CT                       Certificate of Teaching
DFID                     Department for International Development (formerly British ODA)
DOE                      Department/Directorate of Education
DPIEE                    Directorate of Public Instruction, Elementary Education, AJK
ECNEC                    Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
EEC                      Education Extension Center
EMIS                     Education Management Information System
ESL                      English as a Second Language
FBTD                     Field-Based Teacher Development
FEDEMIS                  Federal Education Management Information System
GCET                     Government Colleges of Elementary Training
GOP                      Government of Pakistan
ICB                      International Competitive Bidding
IDA                      International Development Association
INSET                    In-Service Teacher Education
KANA/SAFRON              Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas and States and Frontier Regions
MEd                      Master's of Teacher Education
MSU                      Multi-Donor Support Unit
NA                       Northern Areas
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
NEP                      Northern Education Project (Pakistan)
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
NWFP                     North West Frontier Province
PIU                      Project Implementation Unit
PTA                      Parent-Teacher Association
PTC                      Primary Teacher Certificate
SAP                      Social Action Program
SAPP                     Social Action Program Project
SOE                      Statement of Expenses
UNICEF                   United Nations Children's Fund
VEC                      Village Education Committee
VO                       Village Organization
Vice-President                             Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director                           Sadiq Almed
Education Sector Manager                   Ralph W. Harbison
Task Team Leader                           Ana Maria Jeria



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Project and Credit Summary ............................................. i
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND AND ISSUES                           ...............1.................. 
A. Introduction  ..............................................    1
B. Overview  of Education in the Northern Areas .........................    2
C. Overview  of Education in Azad Jammu and Kashmir  ....................    3
D. Education Finance    .          ........................................                                4
E. Main Sector Issues   .          ........................................                                5
School Quality Issues . ......................................  5
Access, Equity and Efficiency  ................................    8
Institutional and Managerial Issues  .............................    9
Community Participation and Links with NGOs  ......................   11
F. Government and Donor Strategies in Basic Education  ....................   12
G. IDA Strategy and Rationale for Project Investment ......................   13
H. Lessons from Experience . ......................................  13
II. THE PROJECT   ...............................................    15
A. Project Approach and Objectives  .................................   15
B. Project Description ...........................................  16
Improving Education Quality  .................................   16
Increasing Equitable Access ..........                  ........................   19
Strengthening Institutional Capacity  .............................   20
Community Participation   ..........                  .........................   22
C. Project Management and Implementation  ............................   24
Project Management and Coordination  ...........................   24
Implementation Timeline and Modalities ..........................   25
Implementation Responsibilities  ...............................   25
Role of NGOs ........................................... 25
D. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision  ............................   26
Program  and Project Progress and Reporting  .......................   26
IDA Supervision .         ........................................   27
III. PROGRAM  AND  PROJECT COSTS                     ................             ...................   28
A. Program Costs ............................................. 28
B. Project Costs  .............................................   28
C. Financing Arrangements  .               .....................................   31
D .   Procurement  ..............................................                                         31
E. Disbursement .......................................... 34
F. Accounts and Audits .........................................   35
IV. ASSESSMENTS  ...............................................    37
A. Financial Assessment and Sustainability .............................   37



B. Institutional Assessment .......................................  38
C. Economic Assessment, Benefits and Risks ........      ...................  38
Benefits . ...................................... 38
Cost-Effectiveness ....................                                   39
Risks .....................                                               40
D. Environmental Assessment ....................   41
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ........ ..............  42
TABLES
Table 3.1  Estimated Elementary Education Program
Table 3.2  Elementary Education Program Financing Plan
Table 3.3  Components Project Cost Summary
Table 3.4  Project Financing Plan
Table 3.5  Procurement Arrangements
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Educational Statistics
Annex 2    Financial Evaluation
Annex 3    Community Participation
Annex 4    Northern Areas Priorities and Strategies in Elementary Education
Annex 5    Azad Jammu and Kashmir Elementary Education Priorities and Investments
Annex 6    Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 7    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Annex 8    IDA Project Supervision and Mission Schedule
Annex 9    Components Project Cost Summaries
Annex 10   IDA Disbursement Schedule
Annex 11   Technical Assistance (TA)
Annex 12   Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
Annex 13   Economic Evaluation
Annex 14   Selected Documents in Project File
This report is based on the findings of the pre-appraisal/appraisal mission that visited Pakistan in
March/April 1996, and reflects revisions to accommodate overall cuts to the project prior to ECNEC
approval in May 1997. The appraisal mission comprised: A.M. Jeria (Mission Leader and Task
Manager); I. Appasamy (Operations Analyst); A. Naqvi (Education Specialist); M. Sutton (Education
Specialist, Consultant); N. Abbas (SAP Multi-Donor Support Unit, Pakistan); K. Hovde (Community
Participation/NGOs Specialist, Consultant); I. Bokhari (Education, Consultant); and J. Malmborg
(Architect, Consultant). S. Shakil (Aga Khan Education Services) assisted with specific aspects of project
components in NA. The support during project preparation of the Aga Khan Development Network, the
Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Fund and the SAP Multi-Donor Support Unit is
gratefully acknowledged. D. Ricks (SASED) provided invaluable support in the production of project
documentation. Project processing was supervised by M. Nishimizu (then Director, SAI), F. Ahmed
(then Project Advisor and Acting Director, SAl) and B. Herz (then Chief, SAlPH). The peer reviewers
for the project were: W. Heneveld (LCSHD); V. Greaney (SASED); and C. Valdivieso (PRMGE).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Project and Credit Summary
Borrower:                         Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Implementing Agencies:            Department of Education, Northern Areas
Department of Education, Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Non-Governmental Organizations
Beneficiaries:                    Over one million elementary school age children residing in
the Northern Areas and Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Poverty Category:                 Program of Targeted Interventions. The areas covered by the
proposed project are particularly poor and underserved. The
project moreover places particular emphasis on girls'
education.
Credit Amount:                    SDR 16.4 million (US$22.8 million equivalent)'
Terms:                            Standard, with 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee:                   Standard (a variable rate between 0% and 0.5% of the
undisbursed credit balance set annually by the Executive
Directors of IDA)
Onlending Terms:                  The Federal Government will make available the proceeds of
the Credit to the Northern Areas and Azad Jammu and
Kashmir in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures.
Net Present Value:                Not applicable
Financing Plan:                   See Tables 3.2 and 3.4 in body of report.
Project Identification Number:    PK-PA-37834
Project Description:  Pakistan's social indicators are considerably worse than most other comparable
countries. Northern Pakistan, comprising the Northern Areas (NA) and Azad Jammu and Kashmir
(AJK), is particularly disadvantaged. Nearly four million people live in these regions, 90 percent in
rural villages scattered over a vast area of exceptionally mountainous terrain. The NA are among the
1 British Department for International Development (DFID - formerly British ODA) has proposed
financing a portion of project activities in the Northern Areas, amounting to approximately US$ 3.1 million
equivalent.



most backward areas in Pakistan in terms of educational indicators, particularly for girls. The
percentage of school-age children in school (participation rate) is estimated to be 74 percent for boys
and 35 percent for girls at the primary level, and 54 percent for boys and 18 percent for girls at the
middle levels. Access in AJK is much better, although girls still lag behind. The quality of
education, however, is poor in both regions: although there is little systematic information on
learning levels, both the NA and AJK fell below country averages on a recent test of mathematics and
Urdu at the primary level. Nearly 58 percent of teachers in elementary schools in NA lack teaching
credentials; most teachers in both regions work simultaneously with several grades yet virtually none
have any training in multigrade instruction or in the use of supporting materials. Low levels of non-
salary recurrent spending have contributed to impoverished and structurally unsound classroom
environments. More than 30 percent of schools in AJK are classified as "dangerous" or "shelterless."
Management systems and skills are weak in both regions, and, until recently, community participation
in the education system has been limited or non-existent.
The project would cover education from Katchi (kindergarten) to grade 8, with emphasis on the
primary years and girls' education. The project's main objectives are to: (a) improve the quality of
education in order to increase learning achievement and completion rates in elementary education; (b)
increase access, equity and retention of students, particularly girls; (c) strengthen institutional capacity
to manage and supervise education programs; and (d) encourage greater community and NGO
participation. The project would follow a program approach, which requires agreements between the
Government and The International Development Association (IDA) on the elementary education
policies, strategies, programs and budgets, including directions for reform, over the life of the
project. Statements of strategies and priorities were developed by both NA and AJK during the
course of project preparation. Although priorities and strategies differ by region, common themes
include: investments in teacher training, materials development, and the introduction of continuous
assessment techniques; replacement of dangerous classrooms and construction of school buildings for
currently shelterless schools, and (in the NA) community-run schools; upgrading of management tools
and skills; and commitment to increased community participation in school management issues.
Project support would be linked to satisfactory implementation of the agreed program, and annual
operational plans and targets tied to annual reviews.
Benefits: The project would directly or indirectly benefit over one million children over the five
years of project implementation, through a combination of improvements in school quality and access.
In the NA, it is expected that the project would expand overall enrollments at the elementary level by
approximately 28 percent over current levels and double the number of girls in school. An increased
level of literacy improves economic productivity and income-earning potential for both sexes; for
girls, literacy is known to have a positive effect on lowering population growth and infant mortality.
Further benefits expected from the project include: (a) improvements in learning achievement
through better trained teachers, more appropriate materials, and a more hospitable learning
environment; (b) lower teacher absenteeism, improved school maintenance, and improved system
accountability through community participation in school management; (c) a reduction in dropout rates
(particularly for girls) and higher overall completion rates through a combination of improvements in
the learning environment, community sensitization and monitoring, the recruitment of female
teachers, and improved access at the middle levels; (d) improved availability of qualified female
teachers (in the NA); and (e) improvements in system management and resource allocation through
better information and planning practices and more qualified staff.
Risks: During preparation, an effort has been made to analyze and reduce project risks.
Nevertheless, risks remain especially given the remoteness of the regions and their lack of experience
(ii)



with projects. The project faces risks related to (a) design; (b) implementation; (c) financial
environment; and (d) political factors. With regard to project design, the heavy emphasis on
community participation presents both potential benefits and risks. Reliance on community
participation in construction may mean that construction moves more slowly. In AJK there is likely
to be substantial institutional resistance to meaningful community involvement in school affairs, while
in the NA the reliance on community schools as the principal means for increasing access to education
risks overburdening communities and furthering inequities between the communities that can
contribute a lot, and those that can contribute very little to their children's education. The project has
attempted to mitigate these risks through the use of pilots, drawing on local expertise whenever
possible, and supporting and further developing the community school program. While the risks still
exist, we believe the potential benefits outweigh them. The absence or poor quality of basic data in
both areas also means that estimates of system needs may be considerably off. The project design has
attempted to take this risk into account by adopting a more flexible approach with Annual Reviews.
Implementation risks include the executing agencies' relatively weak institutional capacity, little or no
experience with Bank procedures and managerial requirements, heavy internal bureaucracy, and the
possible turnover of key managers and staff. The project addresses the first two of these risks
through keeping project components as simple as possible, relying whenever possible on locally
available expertise, strengthening critical Department of Education (DOE) departments or areas, and
including technical assistance and training. While the project cannot change the Government's rules
of business, it seeks to avoid some levels of bureaucracy through dealing directly with the AJK and
NA Governments as much as possible, rather than channelling everything though a federal level
coordination unit. The last risk -- turnover of key managers and staff -- can without doubt have the
most negative effects on project implementation. Actions taken or to be taken to reduce this risk
include making sure the project is broadly discussed and supported within the existing institutions as
part of project preparation, planning for the provision of ongoing training and technical assistance,
and using Annual Reviews as a forum for raising overall concerns with the Government.
The principal financial risk to the project is the possible deleterious effects of federal budget cutbacks
on overall budgetary allocations to the NA and AJK, and within these, specifically to education. A
Social Action Program (SAP)-type project is the logical framework for addressing these issues. Risks
related to political factors include interference in site selection for construction of schools and in
teacher appointments, as well as changes of Government, a possible flare-up of sectarian violence in
the NA, or a change in the overall status of AJK. The first of these two risks will be addressed
through the use of school mapping results for the rational selection of school sites and through the use
of merit-based criteria in the hiring of teachers. Over the remaining risks, of course, the project has
no control. Given the high priority of improving education in these neglected areas, the risks overall
are considered acceptable.
(iii)






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. Introduction
1.1        Pakistan's strong economic performance over the past two decades has contributed to a
significant reduction in poverty, as measured by consumption indicators. Many years of neglect of
the social sectors, however, have led to social indicators that are considerably worse than most other
countries at similar levels of development.2 Only 35 percent of the population is estimated to be
literate, and there are wide gender disparities in education, health, and earnings potential. In 1991,
only 46 percent of primary and 21 percent of secondary school-age children were estimated to be
enrolled at the primary and secondary levels, respectively -- half the average enrollment rates for all
low-income countries. A population growth rate of 3 percent also threatens per capita consumption
gains and increases pressure for schooling. In an effort to redress the prior neglect of social services,
the Federal Government in 1993 adopted a Social Action Programme (SAP), which is partially funded
with assistance from donors, including IDA.
1.2        Northern Pakistan, consisting of the Northern Areas (NA) and Azad Jammu and
Kashmir (AJK), is particularly disadvantaged and has received a very small share of the country's
increased wealth. Both areas remain overwhelmingly rural with limited access to communications and
road infrastructure. Ninety-one percent of the NA's 0.8 million people live in rural areas, most in
small villages scattered over a vast area of exceptionally mountainous terrain. Eighty-nine percent of
AJK's approximately 3.5 million people also live in rural areas.4 Poverty is pervasive and access to
basic social services is often limited or unavailable. Infant and child mortality are significantly above
national levels. Average annual income in Pakistan in 1991 was approximately Rs. 10,300, but only
about Rs.5,600 in NA and Rs.7,300 in AJK.5  With the exception of modest general support
through SAP, hardly any external donor assistance for the social sectors has reached these two remote
regions.
1.3        As in the rest of Pakistan, the provision of education in both the NA and AJK is divided
into three main cycles: primary schools provide the entire primary cycle (grades K-5)6; middle
schools provide both primary and middle (grades 6-8) cycles, and high schools provide primary,
middle and secondary (grades 9-10) cycles. Government administration of the educational system also
2 Pakistan ranks 134 among the 174 countries for which the Human Development Index has been derived
(UNDP 1996).
3 Behrman, Jere R., 1995.
4 Population figures are projected from the last census, which was 1981.
5 Punjab Economic Research Institute, 1992.
6 Grades and classes are used equivalently in this report.



2
follows a similar pattern to the rest of the country, although there are important differences between
AJK and the NA in terms of decision-making authority. Both areas have a central institution (the
Directorate of Education, in the case of the NA; the Department of Education in AJK) responsible for
policy making and planning and district offices responsible for direct school supervision, data
collection, and some decisions on personnel (five district offices in the case of the NA, and seven in
AJK7). Both the NA and AJK are also considered "special areas" within Pakistan and are
represented at the federal level by the Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas and States and
Frontier Regions (KANA/SAFRON). AJK has considerable autonomy in governmental affairs,
however, including its own president and parliament, and the ability to sanction civil service posts
(including teachers). The NA administration answers directly to the KANA/SAFRON Ministry,
although a local council with limited political powers was authorized in 1994.
B. Overview of Education in the Northern Areas
1.4         The Northern Areas are among the most backward areas of Pakistan in terms of
educational indicators. The literacy rate of 14.7 percent reported by the 1981 Census (24 percent for
males and 3 percent for females) was well below the then national average of 26 percent. Enrollment
at the primary level covers just over half of school-age children, and girls enrollments seriously lag
behind those of boys. As of 1994, there were 50,799 boys and 23,228 girls enrolled in primary
schools, representing approximately 74 and 35 percent of the corresponding school-age population.8
At the middle level, these numbers were 15,832 boys and 4,989 girls, or approximately 54 percent
and 18 percent of the corresponding school age population, respectively. These statistics, however,
also mask significant inequalities between the five administrative districts. In Diamer district, for
example, girls' enrollment at the primary level is only about 14 percent of the corresponding school-
age population (see Annex 1 for additional information on education statistics).
1.5        There is little objective information on learning levels in the NA, but the information
available suggests that the quality of education offered is extremely low. Existing Government exams
for grade 8 completers and matric (grade 10) level do not offer much information about true learning
levels, since tests can be passed through rote memorization and there are problems with the security
of test administration. The Aga Khan Education Service (AKESP), the largest NGO provider of
educational services in the region, administers a screening test for potential teachers that is geared to
mastery of approximately a grade 4 level of content. Failure rates for this exam are very high, even
for holders of matric and higher certification. In mid-1995, the Multi-Donor Support Unit (MSU) for
the SAP program supported a national achievement survey of mathematics, general knowledge and
7 Two additional districts were created in AJK in late 1995. All statistical information presented on AJK in
this report, however, shows only the five original districts.
8 These numbers do not include data on private school. enrollments (other than AKESP) which are not
available for 1994. According to 1992-93 data, however, private enrollments made up 5 percent of total
enrollments. It is likely, therefore, that the estimated participation figure for boys, in particular, is slightly
higher, as boys' enrollment in private schools outstrips that of girls.



3
comprehension among grade 5 students and teachers. Scores of both students and teachers in the NA
were the lowest in the nation, with girl students scoring the lowest of all.9
1.6         The Government is the largest provider of educational services in the NA, with direct
responsibility for 782 schools (primary through high school), and about 84 percent of enrollments.'0
AKESP is the second largest provider, accounting for 126 schools and 16 percent of enrollment, but
35 percent of female enrollment (all levels). AKESP schools originated as girls schools, although
many currently admit boys at the primary level. AKESP, however, only operates schools in two of
the five administrative districts (Gilgit and Ghizer). The army and the private sector operate 52
schools, the vast majority in Gilgit district (34). As of 1992-93, enrollment in independent private
schools was estimated at approximately five percent of total enrollments -- this percentage may have
increased slightly over the past three years. While some are being run by small NGOs and "welfare
organizations," many are also run by private entrepreneurs on a for-profit basis.
1.7         Under the aegis of the SAP program, during 1995 the Government in cooperation with
the Aga Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP) also sponsored the establishment of 250 "community
schools," distributed equally across the five districts. These schools are established in partnership
with village organizations (VOs), which assume the responsibility of hiring a teacher, finding
classroom space, and overseeing the non-academic aspects of school administration. The
Government, in turn, sets up an account of Rs. 100,000 in the name of the school, the interest from
which (approximately Rs. 1,400 per month) pays the salary of the teacher. The Directorate of
Education also retains responsibility for setting the criteria for teacher eligibility, and for academic
supervision. The vast majority of these schools have been established either as girls schools or
coeducational primary schools. Nearly half of the teachers hired through the program thus far are
female, compared to the regular Government system where only 14 percent are female. As of early
1996, enrollment in community schools stood at 12,088 students (about 16 percent of total primary
enrollment in 1994). " About 64 percent of community school enrollments were female.
C. Overview of Education in Azad Jammu and Kashmir
1.8        In contrast to the NA, literacy in AJK is estimated in 1995 to be at 43 percent of the
population, although only 12 percent for females. Access at the primary level is also comparatively
good, although enrollment of girls still lags behind that of boys. As of 1994-95, there were 231,851
boys and 191,210 girls enrolled at the primary level, corresponding to approximately 101 percent and
87 percent of the school-age populations."2 At the middle level, 74,715 boys and 42,203 girls were
9 The Northern Areas is the only region, in fact, in which girls scored lower than boys, reflecting the
serious gender equity issues in the region.
10 1994 data. This breakdown of enrollments does not include information on private providers other than
AKESP.
11 Note that while the majority of these appear to be new enrollments, there clearly has also been some
shifting in enrolLment between government, AKESP, and community schools. 1994 was therefore chosen as a
more reliable base year for statistical monitoring purposes.
12 Note that AJK has a significant number of "under-age" children enrolled at the primary level, so actual
coverage rates are undoubtedly lower.



4
enrolled, corresponding to approximately 75 percent and 44 percent of the corresponding school age
populations. Participation rates appear to be fairly even across districts at the primary level, although
there are important differences at the middle level particularly for females.
1.9        AJK's relatively good record on access is the direct result of the AJK Government's
decision to give high priority to the expansion of educational services over the past two decades. The
Government is overwhelmingly the largest provider of educational services, and is directly responsible
for 5,669 schools (primary through high school), about 97 percent of primary enrollments, 87 percent
of middle school enrollments, and 87 percent of high school enrollments. A small but growing
private sector accounts for the remaining enrollments, and approximately 306 schools.'3 Most of the
private schools are located in urban areas, and cater to the demands of high and middle-income
families. Most are also coeducational, although boys enrollments greatly outstrip those of girls,
which may be a reflection of families' priorities in the face of relatively high fees (the average fee is
estimated to be about Rs.200 per month).
1.10       Despite AJK's achievements with regard to access, however, learning levels appear to be
at or below national averages. In the recent MSU sponsored survey of student achievement among
class five students and teachers, girls in AJK scored 52 percent and boys 48 percent, compared to
national averages of 62 percent and 59 percent.
D. Education Finance
1.11       Government spending on education has been extremely low in the NA and AJK. Low
historical spending in the NA has resulted in low literacy levels, poor education assets and low
student completion and achievement. The education sector expenditures in NA and AJK represent a
small part of the total Federal (GOP) expenditures -- only about one percent in 1995-96. Both areas,
however, rely very heavily on GOP transfers for financing their expenditures. All funding for the
NA -- both development and non-development, is allocated through the KANAISAFRON Ministry.
The AJK government internally generated resources cover only 35 percent of its overall expenditures
while GOP finances the other 65 percent. In 1995-96, allocations to education amounted to about 20
and 24 percent of total public sector allocations in NA and AJK respectively (development and non-
development).
1.12       During the past five years, education development expenditures have declined in AJK.
Education Development Expenditures as a share of the Annual Development Plan (ADP) averaged
14.0 percent in 1991-92 and are estimated at 8.4 percent in 1995-96. In the NA, elementary
education has received some support through the SAP budget. However, these funds represent
extremely small and insufficient amounts when compared with the sector's acute needs. Recurrent
spending on the elementary level has lagged behind with net gains going to the secondary and higher
levels. Elementary Non-development (recurrent) Expenditures increased at an average annual rate of
14.2 percent in the NA, while Secondary (and College) Non-Development Expenditures grew at an
annual average rate of 16.7 percent. In AJK, Elementary Non-Development Expenditures increased
at an average rate of 8.6 percent, while College Non-Development Expenditures grew at an average
annual rate of 14.1 percent (for additional information on education finance, see Annex 2).
13 Enrollment percentages are based on data from the private schools association in Muzaffarabad and are
rough estimates only.



5
1.13       One of the most critical problems in the education recurrent expenditures is the
dominance of the salary component. In AJK there are virtually no budgetary provisions for non-
salary inputs, such as repairs, maintenance, instructional materials, and so on. Recently, a provision
of equipment (furniture, sports goods) amounting to Rs.35 million for 4,119 primary schools was
included in the ADP. One of the reasons for the high proportion of dangerous schools is the
combined effect of poor quality construction and inadequate allocation of funds for maintenance and
repairs. In the NA, non-salary inputs in the elementary education non-development expenditures have
increased; while they represented on average 4.5 percent of elementary expenditures over the past five
years, non-salary inputs totalled approximately 12.0 percent of the elementary non-development
allocations in 1995-96. This level of non-salary allocations needs to be sustained.
1.14       According to the best available estimates of parental expenditures on education, the
parents of children in government-run primary schools spend approximately Rs.500-600 yearly on
items including school books, uniforms, supplies and a nominal monthly school fee (Rs.5). Students
in AKESP schools pay an additional fee of Rs.50 per month. AKESP fees are kept low in large part
through subsidization of the Aga Khan Foundation, and their schools also offer fee remission for low-
income students. Independent private schools rely solely on tuition for operating expenses and their
fees tend to be quite high (Rs.200 per month or more).
E. Main Sector Issues
1.15       The major issues confronting the elementary education sub-sector in the NA and AJK
include: (a) low quality of education and poor student achievement due to a combination of untrained
or poorly trained teachers, limited and/or inappropriate instructional materials and harsh physical
conditions; (b) limited access, particularly for girls; (c) low management capacity due to a lack of
reliable information, a shortage of trained and technical staff, and political constraints; and (d) limited
system accountability to parents and/or experience in mobilizing parents and community members in
support of education.
School Quality Issues
1.16       Physical Conditions of Schools. Inadequate design and lack of maintenance funds have
led to very poor physical conditions in the great majority of schools in both AJK and the NA. In
AJK, out of a total of 5,228 Government schools, 661 have serious structural deficiencies rendering
them dangerous to children, and 1,126 are classified as "shelterless" -- either managing in a rented or
donated building not suited for the purpose or without any shelter whatsoever. In the NA, 267 out
of 691 Government primary and middle schools are in need of interventions ranging from minor
repair work to reconstruction of existing buildings and construction of facilities for schools with no
facilities at all. In both AJK and the NA, most of the older Government schools have insufficient
classroom space. Newer schools have been built following a standard design that does not allow for
climatic differences between regions. Many schools have broken furniture, or no furniture at all,
forcing students to squat on the floor. Very few schools have running water or sanitation, a factor
that has elsewhere been found to be important in the retention of girls.
1.17       Teachers and Teaching Practices. Teachers in both the NA and AJK work in
extraordinarily difficult conditions. In addition to the poor physical conditions of schools, the vast
majority of teachers in both regions must singlehandedly cope with students spanning several grades
and age groups in one classroom, without materials other than a textbook. They must teach a range



6
of subjects in Urdu (not their native language, nor that of their students), and are supposed to be able
to teach Arabic and more recently English as well. Many have had little academic training, and/or no
formal teacher training, and for those that have, the standard teacher training often proves irrelevant
to the realities of their teaching situation. For the majority of teachers, supervision or other academic
support is infrequent, or non-existent. The result is that teachers' content knowledge and classroom
management skills are generally poor. Often the lower grades are ignored or put under the charge of
an older student -- a practice that may exacerbate early dropout.
1.18        There are currently 1,547 teachers teaching in Government-run primary and middle
schools in the NA, the vast majority ef whom (86 percent) are male.'4 Many lack teaching
credentials appropriate to the level at which they teach. Only 44 percent of primary teachers in the
Government system hold the Primary Teaching Certificate (PTC), while 11 percent of primary and 36
percent of intermediate teachers have not attained the requisite levels of academic education, which
are "matriculation" following grade 10 for primary teachers and senior secondary completion (grade
12) or its equivalent for middle school teachers."5 In view of the evidence that parents are often
more willing to send girls to primary schools where the teacher is female, the predominance of male
teachers is a problem. The NA administration has been actively promoting the hiring of female
teachers for community schools through the SAP program: about 50 percent of teachers hired under
the program thus far are female. In a number of cases, however, the Directorate of Education has
had to relax academic and training standards for community school appointments -- very few
community school teachers have had any formal teacher training.
1.19        Three main factors mitigate against increasing the educational and training levels of
current and future teachers in the NA: (a) the supply of training places; (b) the scarcity of teachers in
the system; and (c) for women, constraints on travel as well as access to middle and higher education.
There is currently one College of Education for men located in Gilgit, while a small female "college"
operates in a rented building as an unsanctioned branch of the male college without hostel facilities.
With a theoretical total capacity of around 200 trainees per year, the current college based system
cannot begin to meet the needs for teacher training. The Directorate of Education and AKESP also
have collaborated over the last 12 years in running a relatively low-cost and well-regarded Field
Based Teacher Development (FBTD) program. The FBTD Program is particularly beneficial for
female teachers, as it obviates the need for dislocation from the family and community, but under the
current model capacity is also very limited. The small number of teachers in the Government system
also constrains the utilization of training capacity as with few substitute teachers available, supervisors
are understandably reluctant to release in-service teachers for a year long training course.'6
14 An additional 460 posts (primary through high school levels) were sanctioned as of early 1996, but these
posts have yet to be filled.
15 Academic preparation may in fact be worse than these statistics suggest, as it is possible to sit for the
matriculation exam as a "private candidate" without actually having completed grade 10. Given problems with
the design and security of the matriculation exam, it is possible for candidates with very low levels of content
knowledge to pass it.
16 Note that until 1995, no additional teaching posts had been authorized for the NA since 1986, despite an
overall increase in enrollment and the building of a number of new schools.



7
1.20       In contrast to the NA, the much larger teaching force in AJK is better balanced in terms
of gender and has higher formal qualifications. Male teachers represent about 61 percent of a total of
11,451 teachers at the primary level, and 64 percent of a total of 5,596 at the middle level. There
is, however, an imbalance between males and females with regard to training: 37 percent of female
teachers in primary schools are untrained, compared with 8 percent of males, while in middle schools
the percentages of untrained teachers are 22 percent for females and only 12 percent for males. The
reasons behind this large gap are unclear, although the greater difficulty for female teachers to attend
lengthy teacher training courses far from home may be part of the explanation.
1.21       AJK has a very large system of college-based certification training for elementary school
teachers, at the same time as it has almost no capacity for in-service/refresher training. Ten of
Pakistan's 90 Government Colleges of Elementary Training are in AJK, with one male and one
female teacher training college in each of five administrative districts (two more districts have
recently been established in AJK). The theoretical capacity of these 10 colleges is 1,000-1,500
graduates (PTC and Certificate of Teaching (CT)) per year, far more than the system can absorb or
justify on the basis of current student-teacher and gross enrollment ratios. In addition, there are an
Agro-Technical College (for male primary teachers), a College of Education (for male secondary
teachers) and the Institute for Teacher Training and Research in the district of Poonch. As in the
NA, the quality of teacher training in AJK is poor; colleges have few resources beyond staff, and
courses are geared far more towards passing theoretically-biassed certification exams than towards
improving content mastery and practical teaching skills. A limited amount of in-service training in
the form of short "refresher" courses has functioned sporadically through the Education Extension
Center (EEC) founded in 1981, but the EEC has never had sufficient funds, staff, or expertise to
develop into an institution capable of planning and coordinating in-service training on a more systemic
basis.
1.22       Curriculum and Educational Materials. Like the rest of Pakistan, both AJK and the NA
follow the broad outlines of the curriculum defined by the Federal Ministry of Education. The
provinces and regions do have some autonomy, however, in further defining learning competencies
that are expected to be mastered at each grade level. Neither AJK nor the NA has thus far made an
attempt to define such competencies, which in turn would serve to guide materials development,
teacher training programs and assessment activities. In practice, changes in curriculum, teacher
training, and materials development have been quite disjointed: AJK, for example, recently
introduced the teaching of English as a compulsory subject from grade 1 despite the fact that the vast
majority of primary school teachers in the system have no training in English as a Second language
(ESL) or language teaching in general. Both AJK and the NA participated in a UNICEF-funded
national program which promoted an integrated curriculum and local textbook development for grades
one to three. The books developed under this program are now in use in AJK and one district of the
NA, although there has been little reliable evaluation of their impact and very little training of
teachers in their use. UNICEF funding for the project ended in 1993.
1.23       From a practical standpoint, the textbooks used in the classroom in effect become the
curriculum. Parents are responsible for purchasing textbooks, and distribution of textbooks is done in
both the NA and AJK by private distributors. This system appears to be working well. Separate
teaching guides have been developed in the NA through the joint Government/AKESP FBTD
Program and by the Government in AJK for the new integrated textbooks, but few teachers appear to
have them or be using them. The Northern Areas FBTD Program does train teachers to develop low-
cost materials themselves, but this area of training is very underemphasized in the college-based



8
training in both regions. Prior to the development of the integrated textbooks (for grades 1-3 in AJK
and grades 1-2 in the NA) both regions used the textbooks developed by the Punjab Textbook Board
for all grades. These textbooks continue to be used in most of the NA, and from grade 3 on in AJK.
The books are not designed to support specific local minimum competency levels, and most contain
cultural and other references alien to Northern Pakistan which in some instances may make them less
effective as teaching/learning tools. Nor are materials (textbooks or others) incorporating multigrade
teaching techniques available in either the NA or AJK.
1.24       Assessment of Student Learning. There are currently four main types of assessment in
AJK and the NA: (a) examinations that determine grade-wise promotion; (b) middle and high school
entrance exams (largely in AJK); (c) PTC and CT certification examinations; and (d) classroom-based
diagnostic assessment. No institutionalized form of achievement testing currently exists in either the
NA or AJK, or, indeed, Pakistan at large. With regard to promotion, both areas rely largely on
single, year-end examinations to determine students' success or failure in each grade of elementary
school. The grade 10 exam (matric) is set nationally; all others are set locally. This "pass/fail"
system of examinations is not only unfair to students, but it provides no diagnostic feedback to
teachers. Effective teaching requires not only that students are given more opportunities to prove
themselves, but also that teachers learn and use skills for continuous assessment which provides
feedback on their own effectiveness. Most diagnostic assessment currently is teacher-dependent and
appears to consist of informal checks on students and practice in the prevailing end-of-the-year exam
style with a great deal of emphasis on memorization. The teacher training curriculum includes a unit
on examinations, but teacher educators consider it inadequate preparation for the purpose. All types
of high-stakes exams are characterized by serious questions about their validity, reliability and
security.
1.25       With regard to teacher certification exams, both AIK and the NA hold local authority for
constructing and administering the PTC and CT examinations. In the NA, the exams are set by the
College of Education, while in AJK, the exam setting authority has recently been moved from the
colleges of education to the Examinations Board, in part to counteract abuses. Pass rates for exams
are very high, and at least in the NA are considered "too theoretical," giving much higher weight to
academic than to practical knowledge. Effective transformation of teacher training will necessitate
revision of the certification exams to reflect the new principles on which teacher training is based.
Access, Equity and Efficiency
1.26       Access. Access is clearly a major problem in the NA. Extreme topography and
weather as well as transport problems make it difficult for children to travel even relatively short
distances from home to school. The very low participation rates also appear to reflect more of a
supply than a demand constraint. Whereas AJK is permitted to, and did appoint, new teachers (many
have gone to teach in shelterless schools), in the NA no new teachers were appointed from 1986-
1995. In the NA, with agriculture no longer able to sustain a growing population and the Karakoram
Highway beginning to open up other economic opportunities, the demand for education is growing.
In a recent AKRSP survey of communities' investment priorities, education consistently appeared at
or near the top of the list, and pressure to upgrade existing primary schools to middle level has been
intense. The Government's recent experience with the applications for funding of community schools
has also served to dispel a number of myths regarding parents' willingness to educate girls: even in
some of the most traditional areas (Diamer district, for example), communities have come forward



9
with requests to establish primary schools for girls, and there is increased willingness elsewhere to
permit co-education at the primary level, particularly if the teacher is female.
1.27       Although less dramatic a problem than in the NA, access is also still a problem in AJK,
particularly for girls. Fewer girls than boys enroll in Katchi (kindergarten) class. While it is possible
that lower levels of enrollment for girls may reflect a parental preference for educating boys,
particularly among the very poor, it is likely that these statistics also reflect the smaller number of
girls' schools at the primary level. There are also fewer girls' schools than boys schools at the
middle and high school levels, and student/teacher ratios for girls' primary schools are also higher
than those of boys' schools (42:3 versus 33:5).
1.28       Equity. The main equity issue in both the NA and AJK is that of gender, and the
discrepancies between male and female participation rates, as well as teachers. Particularly in the
NA, however, there are also problems of equity between districts. The long-term presence of AKESP
in Gilgit and Ghizer districts, for example, has offered opportunities for girls' schooling which have
been lacking in other districts. There are also inequities in both AJK and the NA in the distribution
of education resources between urban and rural areas. Urban schools tend to be better supplied and
staffed than their rural counterparts.
1.29       Efficiency. Both the NA and AJK educational systems have a certain amount of "built-
in" inefficiency through the existence of very small schools (less than 20 students) in some of the
rural areas (such schools make up about six percent of schools in the NA). In theory, inequity as
well as inefficiency could be alleviated by having girls and boys within the same village attend the
same school, instead of separate boys and girls' schools. In practice, however, the successful
implementation of such a policy depends upon prevailing cultural norms. In the NA, for example,
co-education at the primary level is increasingly accepted in most districts, particularly if the teacher
is female. The Directorate of Education in the NA has been encouraging co-education at the primary
level, although it has permitted communities to open separate girls schools where the idea is still
unacceptable. In AJK, separate schooling has been the norm, although there is some willingness to
consider mixed schooling at the primary level in the future.
1.30       The internal efficiency of the educational system also appears to be low. Although
neither the NA or AJK collect systematic data on repetition and dropout, rough estimates indicate that
in AJK at least, there is a bottleneck in the transition from Katchi class to grade 1. Steady dropout
and/or repetition continues through primary school at an average of about seven percent of the student
population in subsequent grades. In the NA, the estimated percentage of dropout/repetition per grade
is lower on average for boys (five percent) but much higher for girls (about 11 percent). A second
important bottleneck in both the NA and AJK appears in the transition of girls from grade 5 (primary)
to grade 6 (middle). This second bottleneck reflects either parental unwillingness to send daughters
longer distances to middle schools or the simple lack of availability of middle schools for girls, as
well as cultural (early marriage) and economic (the relative tradeoffs between education and home
labor) factors.
Institutional and Managerial Issues
1.31        Lack of Information for Planning. Educational planning in both AJK and the NA suffers
from deficiencies common in much of the rest of the country. Decisions are often made in the
absence of relevant information or analysis either because: (a) the information is not available at all,



10
or not available in an accessible format; and/or (b) the decision maker does not have sufficient
training to comfortably use the information that is available, or request additional information when
needed; and/or (c) even if the relevant information were clear and available, other pressures
(including political ones) take precedence. As in many places, education system information also
often moves in a single direction from the school to the central level, with collection done because it
is required and not because it is useful. With little or no feedback and few incentives for accurate
data collection the quality of the data collected is poor.
1.32       Under the general guidance of the Federal Academy for Educational Planning and
Management, both the NA and AJK have installed fledgling Education Management Information
Systems (EMIS). In the NA, this consists of a central unit of three people that is so ill-equipped and
ill-trained that it is essentially non-functional.'7 In AJK, things have progressed a bit further. The
central unit has managed to construct a data base covering a selection of basic education statistics for
the past three years, and data entry has been done at the district, as well as the central level. The
data being collected, however, is exclusively that mandated by the federal Government and does not
include additional information useful to the running of AJK's own system. Nor has any of the data
collected in AJK been thus far verified for accuracy.
1.33       Both AJK and the NA also lack some crucial baseline data. Neither village-level
population estimates nor inter-school distance coordinates are available, making it enormously difficult
to ensure adequate site selection for the building or expansion of schools. Neither AJK nor the NA
collect data on repetition and dropout rates, and there is no information available on student
achievement other than the recent results of a general test (not geared specifically to AJK or the NA)
sponsored as part of SAP monitoring activities.
1.34       Shortage of Technical and Female Staff. Although their overall staffing situations are
quite different, both the NA and AJK lack expertise and trained staff in a number of important areas.
T'hese include educational planning, curriculum and materials development, student assessment
techniques, computer systems and programming, and school construction. In the NA in particular,
most technical functions have been carried out at the central level by one or two staff, with help
provided by staff seconded most often from high schools. Projects such as the development of the
integrated textbooks for grades 1 and 2 have been done through volunteer committees. The advantage
to this model is diminished bureaucracy and a willingness to work with whomever is interested and
willing; the disadvantage is lack of continuity and an inevitable lack of specialization. Even in AJK
where the educational system is much larger and more established, the Curriculum Research
Development Center (CRDC) which does materials development is a two-person operation, and the
Department of Education has had trouble filling positions and keeping system analysts and
programmers for the EMIS cell.
1.35       With regard to female administrative staff, AJK and the NA stand far apart. AJK does
have a cadre of female administrators, although there are far fewer than their male counterparts.
There are very few women in direct supervisory positions, which means that most girls schools and
female teachers are supervised by men. The NA, in contrast, currently have no female staff
17 The Federal Education Management Information System (FEDEMIS)'s own collection of data in the NA
has also been badly flawed in recent years. The 1994 round of data collection, for example, was done in
January when schools were closed and many villages inaccessible.



11
employed in administrative or supervisory positions other than the headmistress of the female College
of Education.
1.36       Inadequate Supervision. Academic supervision of schools is hampered by a combination
of the long distances between schools, difficult transport conditions, a high ratio of schools to
supervisory staff at the district level, and a culture in which supervision is viewed as more of an
inspection than a guidance function. Most schools are visited a maximum of twice a year, often for
no more than two hours at a time. These visits are for the most part a formality in which educational
issues are very seldom discussed, or are occasionally made in order to inquire into a complaint.
Institutional incentive structures are also such that supervisors are for the most part former high
school teachers, many of whom may never have taught at the primary level or have not done so in
many years.
1.37       Inefficient Allocation of Resources. Inefficient allocation of resources is a far greater
problem in AJK than in the NA, doubtless in part because the educational system in the NA has
historically been so resource-poor. Many of the problems identified center on the issue of staffing.
For example, although AJK has a reasonably good overall student/teacher ratio at the primary level,
many schools, particularly in the rural areas, have overcrowded classrooms with a single teacher
while urban schools tend to have a much more favorable student/teacher ratio. This is largely a
problem of the distribution of the teaching staff, and the difficulties accompanying the transfer of
teachers to far-flung areas where they face additional difficulties in housing and transport. Political
connections have often been viewed as outweighing professional qualifications in the appointment of
teachers. Another major area of waste is in teacher training. As mentioned earlier, there is fairly
clear evidence that AJK has a surfeit of trained teachers and overcapacity in the teacher training
colleges. In a major recruitment of primary teachers in 1988, 25,000 people applied for 1,500 posts.
Of these, about 10 percent, or 2,500 already held teaching credentials.
1.38       Recently, the AJK Government has taken some important steps towards improving
efficiency in resource allocation. In the hiring of 500 new teachers in late 1995, for example, the
Government committed itself to hiring new teachers on the basis of merit (with academic and
professional qualifications carrying specific weight in a point system). This action has received
widespread commendation. The Government has also begun a slow phase out of Government-
subsidization of upgrading of professional credentials, and has taken preliminary steps to reassign a
surfeit of posts for "teachers in training" in the teacher training colleges back into the elementary
schools.
Community Participation and Links with NGOs
1.39       The NA and AJK differ markedly in regard to levels of community organization and
experience with NGO/Government cooperation. In the NA, AKESP and the Directorate of Education
have traditionally shared information and coordinated activities and investments in the Gilgit and
Ghizer districts, particularly in regard to teacher training. Implementation of the SAP program in the
NA is also characterized by a high degree of cooperation between the Government and the Aga Khan
Development Network (AKDN) (consisting of four organizations dedicated to health, education,
community organizing, and housing). AKRSP has a 15-year history of community organizing
through the establishment of village organizations (VOs) in all five districts, and was instrumental in
the design the community schools model. This program is currently one of the most interesting and



12
ambitious models for community-Government partnership in education in Pakistan (see also Annex 3
on Community Participation and NGOs in the NA and AJK).
1.40       In AJK, in contrast, the NGO sector is far less developed, consisting for the most part
of small "welfare organizations" working on issues ranging from promoting activities for youth to
some health and literacy work. With the possible exception of health, there has been little experience
of cooperation between NGOs and Government agencies. While communities in AJK have supported
education for their children in a variety of ways (including the donation of buildings to "shelterless"
schools), such support has usually been provided on an ad-hoc basis, and there are currently no
formal mechanisms for direct parental and community input into schooling issues.
F. Government and Donor Strategies in Basic Education
1.41       The two central problems with Pakistan's education system as a whole are the low
proportion of girls in school and the poor quality of basic education as reflected in the widespread
low achievements of children who do go to primary school. Government and donor spending on
education has thus far managed to expand education facilities, but has been less successful in
improving quality. The current challenge facing both the government and donors is how to make a
substantial change in education quality, while at the same time maintaining progress towards universal
elementary education. IDA's own operational strategy in education has moved from discrete, input-
oriented projects towards an increased emphasis on policy reform, institutional development,
management, and governance issues, measures to expand the numbers of girls in school, and finding
means to expand public sector support for communities and NGOs. The federal Government's main
funding and policy instrument for basic education is currently the Social Action Program, or SAP.
The SAP has evolved into a framework for action to improve the planning, programming, budgeting
and implementation of all on-going and new programs and projects in the social sectors, with an
emphasis on the integration of donor inputs. The SAP is supported by IDA and other donors through
an umbrella policy-based Social Action Program Project (SAPP) for FY94/96 to cover basic services
in health, education, population, and water and sanitation.'8 SAPP concentrates on the major issues
of program design, implementation and particularly recurrent cost funding that cut across the social
sectors. In education, SAPP has generally bolstered recurrent and development spending on primary
education, and has provided leverage on a number of general policy issues, such as increases in
educational coverage for girls and improvements in educational monitoring systems. SAPP retains
essentially a national and macro focus, however, and is not, as a single instrument, well suited to
supporting provincial or area-specific initiatives and reforms. To complement SAPP, the Government
and donors (including IDA) are also supporting provincial-level education projects in all four of
Pakistan's provinces.
1.42       At the level of the NA and AJK Governments, proposals to address the education sector
issues outlined above are contained in statements of educational priorities and strategies developed by
each administration during project preparation (see Annexes 4 and 5). These statements are a first
attempt to articulate regional priorities within the education sector and broadly reflect discussions held
between policy makers, a wide range of Department and Directorate of Education (DOE) staff,
teachers, NGOs, and other stakeholders during project preparation workshops held in each region.
18 Pakistan Social Action Program Project, Credit No. 2593-PAK, approved in March 1994. A follow-on
project, SAPP II, is currently being prepared.



13
Details of the policy agenda vary somewhat between the two regions (given the different stages of
development of the educational systems), but key aspects of each include, for the NA: (a) continued
priority given to expanding access for girls, and to the preparation and hiring of female staff; (b)
efforts to improve the quality of existing schools through staff training and infrastructure
improvements; and (c) strengthening existing partnerships with communities and NGOs. In AJK, key
aspects include: (a) prioritization of quality improvements at the elementary level; (b) progress in
rationalization of staff hiring, deployment, and training policies; and (c) efforts to promote increased
community participation in education. An important element to both regions' strategies would be
commitment to increase non-salary recurrent expenditures.
G. IDA Strategy and Rationale for Project Investment
1.43       Northern Pakistan is an area where the needs are great, but which has received little
donor attention in the past. The project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed by the Board on December 19, 1995, and reviewed on April 19, 1997, particularly in its
emphasis on improving conditions for rural women and girls. As occurs in the other Provinces, the
proposed project would also help complement, support, and inform the work of SAPP. Because AJK
and the NA are still technically considered "disputed areas," many donors are not permitted by their
own rules to consider investments there. IDA funding can therefore help fill a void. Through work
in support of elementary education in the four Provinces of Pakistan, IDA is also in a relatively
strong position to ensure that lessons (both positive and negative) learned in other projects are made
available to the NA and AJK.  Finally, both AJK and the NA are at stages in the development of
their educational systems where IDA support could make a significant difference: in AJK,
consolidating already impressive advances in access with improvements in system quality, equity, and
management; and in the NA, supporting an innovative effort to expand educational access in
cooperation with the community and NGOs.
H. Lessons from Experience
1.44       The main lessons from sector work in education and project experience in Pakistan as
well as other countries have been incorporated into the project. These lessons are outlined below:
1.45       Regional Focus. Past projects involving a Federal Coordinating Unit and multiple
provinces (such as Primary Education II), have experienced serious implementation delays, largely
due to the adding of bureaucratic layers whereas the provinces are legislatively and financially
responsible for elementary education. Although the federal Government does have a more direct role
in the NA than in AJK or other provinces, the project attempts to reduce bureaucratic delays by
making regional agencies responsible for implementation and avoiding the creation of a separate,
federal level coordinating unit. As with all other projects, federal ministries would, however, be kept
informed of project progress (principally the Ministry of Education and the KANA/SAFRON
Ministry).
1.46       Education of Girls. Several studies and surveys in Pakistan have confirmed the
beneficial impact of female education on the total fertility rate, infant and child mortality, child
immunization rates, nutritional status and children's school attendance.
1.47       Program Management. Experience under several projects has shown that project
management structures established outside the normal administrative hierarchy of provincial or



14
regional Departments of Education fail to institutionalize gains into the regular system. The project
has therefore opted against the setting-up of a specialized Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and has
adopted a more programmatic approach to minimize the burdens of "special" project monitoring.
1.48       Technical Assistance. A strong technical assistance package has proven to be a crucial
factor in the relatively good implementation progress of several recent projects (notably the
Balochistan Primary Education Project), particularly where the choice has been made to strengthen the
existing system rather than establish a project implementation unit (PIU). The project will support
both short and longer-term TA packages in both the NA and AJK.
1.49       Annual Reviews. Annual reviews have become a tool for successful planning and
implementation reviews under both the SAPP and other social sector projects. The annual review sets
realistic targets for the following year based on implementation records of the past year. In other
projects, rigid adherence to PC-1 targets established at project appraisal have become a major
constraint to implementation; these targets are often outdated, and do not reflect the changing realities
or needs that may arise over time. Annual reviews under the proposed project would also permit
coordination with future SAP reviews.
1.50       School Site Selection. One of the most intractable problems in school construction is the
selection and approval of sites. School mapping exercises and use of EMIS systems to verify school-
site selection criteria has begun to improve the situation in several recent projects, away from the
interference of politics. Agreement by both the NA and AJK Governments to conduct a school
mapping exercise and use the resulting information as the basis for school site selection is an
important aspect of the proposed project.
1.51       Community Participation. Both international research in education and recent sector
work in Pakistan have shown that community participation in school management can have a positive
effect on learning outcomes as well as on project sustainability. The proposed project incorporates
substantial community participation in the NA, and in AJK supports a pilot experiment to promote
community participation.
1.52       Teacher Training and Materials Provision. Research in Pakistan has shown that
certification of teachers appears to make little difference with regard to students' achievement levels,
while higher academic attainment of teachers contributes positively to learning achievement. Clearly
these results are in part a reflection of the very poor quality of teacher training. While the proposed
project does support certification (which is important to teachers), it also attempts to influence teacher
training content and methodologies to bolster basic skills (including academic). With regard to
materials provision, the main emphasis in this project would be on improving the teaching tool
teachers are most familiar with -- the textbook.



15
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Approach and Objectives
2.1        As with other recent IDA-funded social sector projects in Pakistan, the proposed project
would follow a "program approach." This approach requires an agreement between the Government,
IDA, and any other donors on the overall sector policies and strategies, including directions for
reform, during the life of the project."9 In both the NA and AJK, the agreed program would
comprise the full range of activities in the elementary education sector, complementing the increased
community and NGO involvement in the provision and improvement of elementary schooling.
Program activities, implementation plans, monitoring indicators and budget requirements for both the
NA and AJK are consistent with the regional statements of educational priorities and strategies, and
have been discussed between the regional Governments, federal Government, and IDA. The
proposed project would support all incremental activities in the elementary sector, on a time-slice
basis. The proposed project would operate under the umbrella of the national SAP, with the detailed
project work in each region contributing to the development of broad SAP annual plans. SAP
conditionality, financing and disbursements would be complementary to those for the project.
Satisfactory progress on the FY1997-98 SAP operational plan was a condition of Board Presentation
which was fulfilled at Negotiations (para. 5.2(p)).
2.2        Project support would be linked to satisfactory implementation of the agreed program
and annual operational plans and targets tied to annual reviews. Each year, progress made during the
previous year would be reviewed, and the education sector program for the coming financial year (in
terms of budget requirements, reform measures to be implemented, and schedule of activities) will be
defined in detail. IDA would need to have seen adequate progress during the previous year, ensure
compliance with any overarching SAP agreements and approve each annual plan before releasing
project funds for that year. With this approach, the Governments should have more flexibility in
implementing the program than through a more traditional project approach, but they will be
responsible for meeting performance targets in order to receive annual funding. Agreement that: (a)
annual sub-programs would be prepared and agreed with IDA, covering both Government and non-
government inputs, activities, policy reforms and financial commitments; and (b) any major proposed
change to the approved program would be agreed in advance with IDA was reached at Negotiations
(para. 5.2(b)). IDA approval of each sub-program will be a condition of disbursement for the project
in both the NA and AJK (para. 5.3(b)).
2.3        The proposed Northern Education Project (NEP) would cover education from Katchi to
grade 8, with emphasis on the primary years and on girls' education. The project's objectives are:
(a) to improve the quality of education, increase learning achievement and improve completion rates
in elementary education; (b) to increase access, equity, and retention of students, particularly girls; (c)
to strengthen institutional capacity to plan and manage educational programs; and (d) to encourage
greater community and NGO participation. Operational indicators to be used to track progress on
19 The British Department for International Development (DFID - formerly ODA) has proposed to finance
selected program activities in the NA as part of the Northern Education Project (NEP). Please see Chapter III
of this report for additional details.



16
these objectives are presented in Annex 6. The project's overall objectives are the same for both the
NA and AJK, although the project would place more or less emphasis on the different objectives
according to local circumstances and the priorities set forth in the statements of educational priorities
and strategies for each region. Prior to Negotiations, final and formally approved copies of the
statements of educational priorities and strategies dated August, 1996 were provided to IDA (para.
5.1 (a)), and adherence to these statements was confirmed during Negotiations (para. 5.2(a)).
B. Project Description
2.4         The project would consist of four main components: (a) Improving Education Quality
(US$8.2 million equivalent; 25 percent of base costs); (b) Increasing Equitable Access (US$16.3
million equivalent; 50 percent of base costs); (c) Strengthening Institutional Capacity (US$4.4 million
equivalent; 13 percent of base costs); and (d) Community Participation (US$3.8 million equivalent; 12
percent of base costs).
Improving Education Quality
2.5         This component would support policy changes, strategies and activities designed to
improve educational quality, including: (a) changes in teacher recruitment and training; (b)
curriculum and educational materials development; and (c) the development of assessment capacity.
While described separately, these three subcomponents are all interrelated and interdependent.
(a) Teacher Training
2.6        Teacher training initiatives would differ for the NA and AJK, reflecting the areas'
different needs. In the NA, the priority strategies would focus on meeting the basic training and
certification needs of brand new teachers and a tremendous backlog of untrained teachers as well as
longer term investments to expand the potential pool of teachers, particularly women. In AJK, the
project would emphasize updating the skills and content knowledge of teachers already in the
classroom through the establishment of an in-service (INSET) training capacity.
2.7        In the NA, the project would support an expansion of the joint Government-AKESP
FBTD program as well as college-based training. The FBTD program is a ten-year-old, intensive,
practicum based program for increasing teachers' content knowledge and broadening their base of
pedagogical skills. The fundamental aim is to improve teaching, rather than to award credentials.
Many uncertified teachers, however, have attained their teaching credentials as "private candidates"
for certification exams, following the completion of FBTD. Under the project approximately 2,140
Government and community school teachers would be trained under the FBTD program, through a
combination of AKESP and Government-run centers.
2.8        With regard to expanding professional, academic and training opportunities for women
in the NA, the project would support the construction, equipping, and staffing of two female
elementary colleges of education, one in Gilgit, and one in Skardu, as well as existing non-formal and
distance education strategies. The colleges would have a combined capacity of approximately 150
students and would have hostel facilities. They would be expected to be fully operational by the
1999/2000 academic year. Approximately 1,600 teachers would be expected to be trained by the new



17
and existing colleges of education over the life of the project.20 Given the acute shortage of girls'
secondary schools in the NA, the project would also support an existing low-cost strategy for
improving academic levels for girls through the distance education program developed by Allamna
Iqbal Open University (AIOU). The AIOU program provides self-study materials for middle and
high school students through local centers.
2.9         As a corollary to efforts to improve the availability of female teachers, the NA
Government would also be expected to continue the current policy of promoting the recruitment of
female teachers at the primary level, both in regular Government and community schools. Under the
current community schools program, communities must appoint a female teacher if there is a qualified
female available in the village.
2.10        In AJK, given the current over-capacity in the college-based teacher training system, the
project would support policy changes to improve resource allocation and management, as well as the
establishment of an in-service training capacity. Relevant policy changes would include: (a) efforts
to give more control to principals of the teacher training colleges with regard to the selection of
teachers and students; (b) measures to identify and provide training opportunities to remaining
untrained teachers and a gradual phase-out of Government-paid "on-service" PTC and CT training in
the teacher training colleges2"; (c) reallocation of "excess" posts away from the teacher training
colleges back into the regular system; and (d) continued Government commitment to the appointment
and promotion of teachers on a strictly merit basis.22
2.11        Recognizing that teachers and educational administrators require recurring opportunities
to update their knowledge and skills, the project would also support the development of a
comprehensive and flexible system for short (two-day to two-week) in-service "refresher" courses in
AJK, under the auspices of the Educational Extension Center (EEC). The first priority of the EEC
would be to provide two-week courses on teaching the Integrated Curriculum, to all primary school
teachers. These courses would be offered at the teacher training colleges during summer holidays. In
accordance with capacity, the EEC would develop and provide specialized courses in English,
Mathematics, continuous assessment techniques, multigrade teaching strategies, and other identified
needs of elementary school teachers. The EEC would also provide some training in academic and
managerial subjects to administrative staff.
20 The project would also support investments in books, materials and teacher training in the existing male
College of Education to complement investments made on the female side.
21 "On-service" training is used to distinquish college-based PTC and CT (pre-service) training is used to
distinguish college-based PTC and CT (pre-service) training for teachers that already have government teaching
positions. "In-service" training in this report is selected, usually short-term training offered to already certified
teachers.
22 Given the poor quality of pre-service training currently in AJK and the fact that there will be a
continued need for some pre-service training, there is clearly scope for investments in quality improvements for
a sub-set of the teacher training colleges (GCETs). Given overall cuts to this project, it was not possible to
fund such investments. This is an area that could conceivably be supported through SAP financing.



18
(b) Curriculum and Materials Development
2.12       The project would support similar strategies in both the NA and AJK with regard to
curriculum and educational materials development, although the choice, phasing and implementation
of activities would vary in accordance with current institutional capacity. The main thrust of this
strategy would be to strengthen local capacity for textbook and materials development, in order to
ensure that elementary education in both regions is conveyed through well-designed and locally
relevant textbooks, and that a wider variety of learning materials are available and used in
elementary classrooms. Common components of this strategy would include: (a) development of lists
of learning competencies by grade-level, which would in turn guide the materials development,
teacher training, and assessment activities; (b) revision and gradual introduction of existing locally
developed textbooks; (c) development of textbooks for additional grades (as feasible); (d) development
of teacher materials with specific purposes, such as support of multigrade materials and/or
development and use of low-cost teaching aids; and (e) the provision of some supplemental learning
materials to schools (in conjunction with teacher training efforts).
2.13       In the NA, where there is limited experience with textbook design, the project would
support the continuation of activities begun under the UNICEF integrated curriculum project.
Textbooks developed for grades one and two would be revised, and additional textbooks and
annotated teachers' guides would be developed for grades three, and as implementation capacity
permits, grades four and five. In AJK, where there is greater institutional capacity, it is expected that
textbook development could proceed through grade eight. The Curriculum Research Development
Center (CRDC) in AJK would also undertake field-based research on teaching/learning practices in
the elementary schools. In order to facilitate the work of the CRDC and EEC, the project would
support the construction of a new office building to be shared by both agencies.
(c) Assessment
2.14       The overall lack of technical expertise in student assessment calls for investments in
training and technical assistance in both the NA and AJK. In both areas, there would be two main
foci to assessment activities: (a) baseline and end-of-project achievement testing; and (b) introduction
of continuous assessment concepts and practices to teacher trainers and curriculum developers. The
first activity would form an integral part of program/project monitoring and evaluation. A criterion-
referenced test of mathematics and Urdu competency would be developed and administered to a
sample of grade four students at the end of the first program year, and a comparable test would be
administered in the final year of the program to determine whether measurable improvements in
student learning have been made during the intervening period. Tests would be based on learning
competency lists developed for grades one to three. As this form of testing is complex and relatively
new to Pakistan, technical assistance will be required.
2.15       The second strategy would be the development of capacity to train and support teachers
in the use of continuous assessment techniques. This would be done because: (a) this is an area that
can provide immediate support for improved teaching practice; and (b) as teachers and teacher
educators become familiar with continuous assessment concepts and techniques, the effects are likely
to spill over into improved promotional examinations.



19
Increasing Equitable Access
2.16       This component would support efforts to improve the quantity, physical quality, and
gender balance of elementary schools operating in the NA and AJK through: (a) reconstruction of
dangerous schools and construction of new school buildings for currently shelterless schools; and (b)
in the NA, participatory construction of buildings for community schools. Reflecting current system
needs, the relative emphasis on system expansion would be greater in the NA than in AJK.
Construction strategies would also differ. In the NA, the project proposes a construction strategy
whereby construction of all school buildings would be done with community participation. This
strategy has been used successfully by the Aga Khan Housing Board in the Northern Areas for over a
decade, and is considered viable. Community participation in construction activities is expected to
lower overall construction cost by about 30 percent. In AJK, which lacks both institutional
experience and positive models for community participation in construction, a more conventional
approach is proposed.
2.17       Overall infrastructure needs have been estimated on the basis of available information
and sample-based infrastructure surveys undertaken during project preparation. A prior condition to
investments in infrastructure in either the NA or AJK, however, is the conduct of a school mapping
exercise. Prior to Negotiations, copies of a signed contract for the first stage of a school mapping
exercise in each region were provided to IDA (para. 5. l(d)). Once baseline information has been
established, future planning would be based on a yearly school census conducted as part of ongoing
system monitoring through the education management information system (EMIS).
2.18       The project would also support the establishment of a maintenance capacity in each
school receiving interventions for the improvement of its physical infrastructure. During the life of
the project, maintenance funds would be provided annually by the Department or Directorate of
Education for use by the school (through PTAs, school committees, village education committees or
head teachers). These funds would be expected to be matched either in cash or kind by the local
committees, which would also bear responsibility for performing or contracting regular maintenance
tasks.' Larger issues of the non-salary resources available for infrastructure maintenance for the
entire elementary education system would be taken up during Annual Reviews.
(a) Dangerous and Shelterless Schools
2.19       In both the NA and AJK, all construction of school facilities (whether brand new or
reconstructed) supported by the project would be based on a revised design developed with the
assistance of external consultants. This design would be developed to address issues of space and
function, flexibility, seismic hazard, thermal conditions, lighting and acoustics. In the NA,
approximately 18 schools which are currently in such poor condition as to be considered dangerous
would be completely reconstructed, and approximately 22 currently shelterless Government-run
schools would receive new school buildings. In AJK, approximately 225 schools which are currently
classified as dangerous would be replaced, and about 125 new school buildings for currently
shelterless schools would be built (final determination of the numbers and locations of schools selected
for construction interventions would be made on the basis of the completed school mapping exercise).
In both AJK and the NA, priority for the construction of shelterless schools and classrooms would be
23 Costs for maintenance are included under the Community Participation component.



20
given to mixed primary and/or girls schools (primary and elementary levels). In view of the
importance parents accord to safety and privacy in decisions regarding schooling for girls, sanitary
units and boundary walls would also be provided for all girls schools receiving construction
interventions.
(b) Community School Construction
2.20       The DOE in the Northern Areas has embraced the establishment of community schools
as the main strategy for expansion of access to schooling in the region. Many such schools, however,
are currently housed in private homes ill-suited to the physical requirements of schooling. The
proposed project would support the participatory construction of approximately 450 school buildings
to serve community schools. In order to qualify for receipt of construction support, a community
school would minimally have to: (a) meet school mapping criteria for a minimum school-age
population base, as well as distance to neighboring schools; (b) have been in existence for at least two
years, during which time the school must have demonstrated an ability to maintain a minimum
number of students enrolled and ensured continuity of the teacher; and (c) be run by a village
education committee willing to provide land, labor, and local building materials in accordance with
program requirements.24 As with the provision of school buildings to currently shelterless schools,
priority would be given to mixed and/or girls schools.25
Strengthening Institutional Capacity
2.21       This component would support ongoing and planned efforts to: (a) strengthen the
management capacity of the Department/Directorate of Elementary Education through organizational
changes, the provision of limited additional staff, training, and technical assistance; (b) improve the
information base for planning and management decisions through the conduct of baseline studies,
rationalizing information flows and developing information management systems at the local level;
and (c) conduct regular monitoring and evaluation of the proposed five-year program.
(a) Strengthening the Department/Directorate of Education
2.22       In both the NA and AJK, the project would support some additions to and/or
rearrangements of current staffing in the Department/Directorate of Education and district offices. In
AJK, where overall staffing levels are generally adequate, any new positions would be created
through redeployment rather than the creation of new posts. Priority attention would be given to
adequate staffing of those units bearing primary responsibility for the elementary education program,
including the Directorate of Public Instruction for Elementary Education (DPIEE), the curriculum unit
(CRDC) and to the in-service teacher training unit (EEC). Assurances regarding the adequate staffing
of the DOEs were received at Negotiations (para. 5.2(g)). In the NA, where the Directorate of
Education in the NA currently consists of a very small cadre of professional staff at the central and
district level, with little or no formal specialization of functions, staffing would be reorganized to
24 Verification of the voluntary nature of land contribution will be undertaken as part of the community
"dialogue" process with the assistance of AKRSP.
25 The vast majority of community schools have already been established as mixed or girls primary
schools.



21
reflect the following functions at the central level: (a) academics; (b) planning, development and
monitoring; (c) administration; and (d) colleges. A small technical cell with the capacity to plan and
supervise civil works would be added under the planning function. The majority of incremental
positions would be added through internal adjustment of posts and contract positions. Additional
posts of Assistant Education Officers (s) responsible for school supervision would be added in both
AJK and the NA, and women would be actively recruited for both administrative and supervisory
posts. Permanent posts added by the project would be financed on a declining basis. An organigram
and chart showing proposed organizational structure and additions to current posts is found in Annex
7. A draft policy on postings and transfers in AJK was agreed during Negotiations (para. 5.2(0)).
2.23       In addition to adequate staffing, institutional capacity would be strengthened through the
provision of better tools and facilities (furniture, computers, photocopiers and the like), as well as
technical assistance and training. In both the NA and AJK, technical assistance would be provided
under the project to support the following activities, among others: (a) the development of job
descriptions and performance evaluation tools for managers and supervisors at all levels; (b) the
development of guidelines for supervisory visits to schools; (c) further identification of staff training
needs; and (d) the design and provision of training to managers and supervisors (including training in
IDA management and procurement requirements). Training may take the form of specially designed
courses given in-house, exposure to short courses available through other institutions in Pakistan,
and/or study tours to neighboring countries to examine existing systems for planning and
development, supervision, and monitoring.
2.24       School supervision would be improved through: (a) an improved ratio of supervisors to
schools; (b) training for supervisory staff; (c) the provision of jeeps to female supervisory staff; (d)
evaluation and further experimentation with school clustering, through which a middle school serves
as a resource center for surrounding schools; and (e) increased community involvement.
(b) Improving Education Management Information Systems
2.25       In both the NA and AJK, the project would support the further development of an
information management system (EMIS). The ultimate goal of such a system would be that each area
would have a timely source of accurate information for the purpose of educational planning,
monitoring, and decision making. In AJK, where the existing EMIS cell is at least functioning as a
satellite data collection and processing unit for the collection of federally mandated educational
statistics, emphasis would be placed on strengthening staffing, improving data collection and
verification procedures, creating greater understanding of, and incentives for, information reporting
and use, and gradually expanding the system to take into account more AJK specific information
needs. In the NA, where a system would essentially have to be built from the ground up, the initial
strategy would be to rationalize current data collection procedures and information use and at least
coordinate data collection with that done at the federal level through the Academy for Educational
Development and Management. As feasible in both areas, additional information from baseline
studies (such as the school mapping exercise) would gradually be integrated into the local system.
The project would support the provision of computers at the central and district levels, the training of
staff, and technical assistance in the conduct of studies and systems design.



22
(c) Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation
2.26       To the greatest extent possible, monitoring and evaluation activities under the project
will derive from and be integrated into the regular functioning of the educational systems of the NA
and AJK. The principal modalities would be: (a) systemic monitoring by educational management
staff; (b) annual, midterm, and final reviews; (c) special studies or reviews undertaken for specific
project components and (d) a baseline and end-of-project sample based survey of student achievement
to determine progress in student learning over the project period. Technical assistance and training
for strengthening systemic monitoring would be largely provided under sub-components (a) and (b),
while this sub-component of the project would support field-based studies to assess institutional
processes (including beneficiary feedback) and the contracting of technical assistance for achievement
testing. Monitoring indicators for the project have been developed and are described in detail in
Annex 6. At Negotiations, assurances were given that the Government will monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the project in accordance with agreed Performance Indicators (para. 5.2 (n)).
Community Participation
2.27       Given the very different circumstances of the NA and AJK with regard to current levels
of community participation in education, the project would support different strategies in each area.
In the NA, the primary strategy for increasing community participation would be continued support to
and improvement of the existing community schools program. In AJK, the primary strategy would be
the establishment school committees in existing Government schools.
(a) Support to Community Schools
2.28       The community schools program started by the DOE under the SAP initiative is
currently the main avenue for increased access to schooling in the Northern Areas. So central is the
notion of community participation to the overall DOE strategy for education, that in effect all
components of the proposed project support the community schools program in some form. Teacher
training opportunities for community school teachers, for example, would be provided under the
Quality Improvement component. Similarly, provision of self-help construction support to community
schools has been included under the Increasing Equitable Access component. Support to community
schools under the Community Participation component would complement these activities by
providing additional financial, technical, and institutional support for the expansion and consolidation
of the program.
2.29       While it is still unclear in the absence of a school mapping exercise exactly how many
additional schools are actually needed in the NA, it is clear that: (a) given low primary coverage
rates in the NA, more communities would be eligible to receive a school than have been served thus
far; and (b) existing and future community schools will need more financial support to survive on a
self-sustaining basis than the one-time Rs. 100,000 grant initially allocated. Under the proposed
project, additional financial support would be provided for up to a maximum of 800 schools. This
support will take the form of grants to eligible community schools, to be used for, inter alia, payment
of teachers' salaries, school supplies, and building rental and maintenance. Eligibility criteria for the
establishment and funding of community schools have been reviewed and agreed upon between the
DOE and IDA, and would be revised during the course of implementation based on mutual agreement
(see Annex 3). During Negotiations, the Government and IDA agreed on the terms, conditions and
procedures of grants (para. 5.2 (1)). Further assurances were received at Negotiations that support to



23
community schools in the NA will be provided in accordance with policies, procedures and guidelines
satisfactory to IDA and publicly announced no later than December 31, 1998 (para. 5.2(m)). A
condition of disbursement for grants to community schools will be in conformity with the terms of
conditions agreed with IDA (para. 5.3(c)).
2.30       Additional technical and institutional support would include: (a) social organization and
mobilization training for DOE staff, to enable them to work more effectively with Village Education
Committees (VECs) and Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs); (b) a joint Government-AKESP
Community School Development project to pilot various modalities of management and financial
support to community schools; and (c) technical assistance and training for DOE staff involved in the
design and supervision of the community schools program. The project would also support increasing
the levels of community participation in regular Government schools through the creation of PTAs,
and the development of school supervision and physical maintenance routines in conjunction with
local communities. As stated in the description of the Increasing Equitable Access component,
maintenance funds for community schools receiving construction assistance would be provided by the
DOE and matched by the community, and Village Education Committees and/or PTAs would be
trained in routine maintenance and upkeep.
(b) Establishment of School Committees
2.31       In AJK, the basic strategy for increasing community participation in education would be
through the formation of school committees at the village level. This strategy is consistent with a
longstanding proposal for the formation of village education committees under SAP which has yet to
be put in practice in AJK. Under the proposed project, the process of school committee formation
would begin on a pilot basis in a single district, and would involve both the training of Assistant
Education Officers (AEOs) in community mobilization techniques, and the training of newly formed
school committees in their responsibilities.26 Technical assistance in coordination of community
mobilization efforts through an NGO or firm would be provided at the level of the DPIEE.
2.32       Under the proposed design, the formation of school committees in the pilot district
would at least initially be done in conjunction with the reconstruction of dangerous and building of
shelterless schools under the project. The reasons for making this connection are threefold: (a) first,
the fact of an investment in physical infrastructure is likely to mobilize the community around the
school and school issues; (b) second, an organized school committee can help oversee the construction
process (although not necessarily the most technical aspects); and (c) one of the functions of the
school committee would be the ongoing maintenance of the newly constructed school, thereby
preserving the value of the investment under the project. By the time of the project Mid-Term
Review, it is expected that a minimum of 50 school committees should be functioning in the pilot
district. A decision as to whether to continue the pilot, modify it, expand it, or terminate it would be
made at that point. In view of the fact that the Civil Engineering Cell within the Department of
Education does not have experience with community participation in construction, the project would
not necessarily follow a participatory approach to the construction itself. As has been the pattern in
26 These may include: (a) decision making with regard to school-related investments and purchases; (b)
fundraising and administration of funds; (c) regular monitoring of teacher and student attendance; (d) building
maintenance; (e) oversight of construction/reconstruction; and (f) serving as education advocates within the
larger community, among others.



24
the past, however, communities would be asked to donate the land for the construction of currently
shelterless schools (land for the reconstruction of dangerous schools is presumed to be adequate).27
C. Project Management and Implementation
Project Management and Coordination
2.33       By following a program approach to the elementary sector in the NA and AJK, the
proposed project endeavors to: (a) ensure that all activities to be undertaken over the project period
are consistent with the regions' overall policy and investment priorities; (b) ensure that planned
incremental activities will not over-burden existing financial or institutional capacity; and (c) minimize
the burden of "special" project monitoring and reporting procedures. With regard to project
management and implementation arrangements, the program approach also favors the strengthening of
implementation capacity in existing institutions, rather than the creation of a separate PIU.
Experience in projects in Pakistan and elsewhere has indicated that unless line departments feel
themselves responsible for project activities, the likelihood of timely implementation and/or project
sustainability is extremely low.
2.34       In both AJK and the NA, therefore, the project would be implemented through the
existing Department/Directorate of Education in cooperation with participating NGOs. The Director
of Education in the NA and the Secretary of Education in AJK would have overall management
responsibility, with much of the day-to-day responsibility for coordinating implementation in AJK
delegated to the Director for Public Instruction, Elementary Education (DPIEE). Overall program
and policy directions, annual plans and budgets would be discussed and agreed by a Program Steering
Committee which would meet at least twice annually. In the NA, this committee would be chaired by
the Chief Secretary, Northern Areas, and would include representatives from Planning and
Development, Finance, selected DOE staff, an experienced educationist from outside the DOE, as
well as representatives from both AKESP and AKRSP. In AJK, the Program Steering Committee
would be chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary and would include representatives from the
Secretariats of Planning and Development and Finance, as well as representatives from DOE
departments involved in various aspects of program/project implementation. The KANA/SAFRON
Ministry and the federal Ministry of Education would also bear responsibility for project oversight,
but there would be no special project coordinating unit at the federal level.
2.35       Project coordination in both the NA and AJK would be enhanced through the
establishment of Project Implementation Committees within the Department/Directorate of Education.
These committees would meet on a monthly basis to coordinate planning and implementation
activities, monitor program progress, and discuss and resolve any issues relating to program/project
implementation. In AJK, this committee would be chaired by the DPIEE, and would include
representatives of all departments and agencies involved in project implementation. Given the
smaller size of the NA Directorate of Education, the Implementation Committee is likely to be a more
informal body. It was agreed between AKESP, AKRSP and the DOE for the NA, however, that the
formation of an NGO-DOE coordinating committee would be established for the purpose of
coordinating teacher training initiatives, the community school development project, and training
27 Verification of the voluntary nature of land contribution will be undertaken as part of the community
mobilization process.



25
workshops for DOE staff in community mobilization techniques. Agreement that the NA and AJK
Steering Committees would meet at least twice yearly and that Implementation Committees would
meet monthly was reached at Negotiations (para. 5.2(c)).
Implementation Timeline and Modalities
2.36       The project would be implemented over five years in both the NA and AJK, starting in
the first semester of FY97/98 and closing on June 30, 2002. Development projects in Pakistan must
be presented to the approving Government authorities in a prescribed detailed format, known as a
PC-1. A PC-1 for each region has been prepared for the entire five year period. Prior to
Negotiations, IDA received both draft and final versions of the project PC-ls for both regions, the
final versions having already been approved by the Executive Committee of the Federal Government's
National Economic Council (para. 5.1(b)). The PC- ls provide flexible but clear guidelines for
project implementation and will be supplemented by a more detailed Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) prepared by the Government as well as the preparation of Annual Plans. Prior to Negotiations,
IDA also received a completed draft version of the PIP for each region (para. 5.1 (c)). Submission of
the first Annual Plan for 1997-98 satisfactory to IDA was a condition of Board Presentation that was
also satisfied at Negotiations (para. 5.2(q)).
Implementation Responsibilities
2.37       On a day-to-day basis, the Directorate/Department of Education would be responsible
for: (a) monitoring program costs and program accounts; (b) processing disbursement applications
and keeping track of disbursement of credit funds; (c) procurement of equipment and administration
of contracts; (d) placement and tracking of any local staff receiving training abroad; (e) monitoring
program/project implementation; and (f) preparation of annual plans and periodic consolidated reports
on the progress of project implementation, with reference to agreed monitoring indicators. Specific
implementation responsibilities by objectives and components for both the NA and AJK are found in
Annex 7.
Role of NGOs
2.38       NGOs under the project would for the most part play a role of providing technical
assistance and training, but would also be responsible for some aspects of project implementation
(these would include AKESP, AKRSP, and the NGO or firm selected to provide technical assistance
to AJK under the community participation component). In the NA, both AKRSP and AKESP would
be considered an integral part of the program, and would participate in the Program Steering
Committee. In addition, AKRSP would: (a) provide support in the identification of communities
eligible for receiving community school funding, increase awareness among communities regarding
program criteria; and to extent possible support the dialogue process leading up to the signed Terms
of Partnership between the Government and the community; (b) provide social mobilization training
for DOE staff; (c) in collaboration with the DOE (and AKESP), develop training materials to be used
with VECs, school management committees, and PTAs, and train Directorate of Education staff in
their use; and (d) to the extent possible, provide technical support to the DOE in training of VECs,
school committees and PTAs. AKESP would: (a) help with the expansion of field-based teacher
training efforts through opening of additional FBTD centers for Government and community school
teachers, thus giving the Government additional time to expand its own capacity; and (b) participate
in a pilot project to develop the community schools program through experimentation with different



26
management and financial mechanisms in a small sample of schools. Both organizations would also
participate in the ongoing monitoring of the NEP through regular contact with Directorate of
Education staff at different levels. At Negotiations, the Government provided IDA with assurances
that it will enter into an agreement with the relevant AKDN agencies regarding their participation
under the project, based on the draft technical proposal submitted to IDA and the approved PC-1
(para. 5.2(k)).
2.39       Given the relative lack of experience with community mobilization techniques within the
Department of Education in AJK, technical assistance in this area will be an important factor in the
success of the proposed pilot. Either an NGO or a private firm with extensive experience in
community mobilization would be most appropriate for such an assignment. Technical assistance in
coordinating the community mobilization effort would be provided to the DOE primarily in the form
of a project coordinator with a strong background in training and social mobilization initiatives. The
community mobilization coordinator would be expected to divide his/her time between on-site training
of AEOs and school committees in the pilot district, and wider education efforts and reporting
functions at the level of the DPIEE (for example, the arrangement of two study tours for policy
makers and DPIEE and district staff to look at community mobilization efforts elsewhere in Pakistan).
To the extent that there are already other social mobilization efforts underway in the pilot district, the
project coordinator and district-level AEOs would be responsible for coordinating with existing efforts
to the maximum extent possible.
D. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Supervision
2.40       Project monitoring and evaluation activities would be integrated into regular DOE
functions and responsibilities, and would form part of the overall effort to build institutional capacity
(see also para. 2.26, Annex 6 and Annex 11).
Program and Project Progress and Reporting
2.41       The Directorate of Education in NA and the Department of Education in AJK, supported
by local consultants and inputs from NGOs, would be responsible for ongoing monitoring and
reporting to IDA on program and project progress. They would produce annual progress reports and
an annual detailed operational plan for the coming year. The reports would: include a narrative
section describing major project achievements and problems encountered; compare actual
accomplishments to agreed plans, including references to agreed project monitoring indicators; and
propose future actions. Detailed formats of the progress reports would be agreed during the project
launch. Agreement that the Government would prepare and submit to IDA annual progress reports to
IDA was confirmed during Negotiations (para. 5.2(e)). In addition, assurances were given during
Negotiations that a joint Government and IDA Mid-Term review would be conducted by May 2000
(para. 5.2(h)); and that an Implementation Completion Report would be submitted by the
Governments to IDA within six months of the closing date of the Project (para. 5.2(i)). Monitoring
and evaluation of technical assistance under the project would be integrated into ongoing monitoring
efforts and would be a special focus of the Mid-Term Review. Suggestions for monitoring indicators
are found in Annex 11.



27
IDA Supervision
2.42       Primary responsibility for supervision arrangements would be with IDA's Resident
Mission in Pakistan. Program and project supervision would be conducted semi-annually, with a full
mission mounted only annually -- typically in April/May coinciding with the budget approval cycle
and the discussion of operational plans. Local consultants to be financed under the IDA Credit would
assist in supervision activities, especially during the October/November missions. Annual supervision
missions would: (a) require at least two weeks in the field; (b) require the services of specialists in
education, school construction, management/community, and finance; and (c) review progress of
program and project components, as well as procurement, financial statements and disbursements,
credit covenants and the implementation of technical assistance. Specialized skill requirements would
be added to the missions according to needs identified by previous supervision missions. The
indicators discussed in Annexes 6 and 11 would assist project managers and supervision missions in
monitoring progress and achievements. Supervision of the NEP in the NA would be done in tandem
with other donors (specifically British DFID), so as to enhance project cohesiveness and minimize the
time-burden on the DOE. A supervision schedule is included in Annex 8.



28
III. PROGRAM AND PROJECT COSTS
A. Program Costs
3.1        A breakdown of elementary education program costs and the program financing plan is
shown in Tables 3.1 and 3.2. The total cost of the elementary program in the NA and AJK is
estimated at US$185.5 million equivalent (NA, US$56.2 million, and AJK US$129.3 million).
Program costs include the elementary education development and non-development (recurrent)
resource requirements over the period 1997-98 to 2001-02. Ongoing development schemes in the
elementary sub-sector have been included as well as agreed new schemes, most prominently the NEP.
It has been assumed that in the NA, 12 percent of the non-development (recurrent) requirements will
be devoted to non-salary items. In AJK, it has been assumed that by 2001-02, non salary elementary
education will grow to 10 percent of the elementary recurrent allocations. The total development
spending for this program is 27 percent of the program cost; the largest part of the balance is
constituted by the salary bill. The Government will finance an increasing portion of the total program
costs over the five years; donors and communities will finance the balance. The estimated IDA
contribution will be US$22.8 million equivalent, 12.3 percent of the total program costs. The
contribution from the proposed next round of SAP, which will be complementary to the NEP, is
anticipated to be about US$14.3 million equivalent, or 7.7 percent of the program costs. The DFID
has proposed financing selected program activities in the NA for a total of approximately US$ 3.1
million equivalent, or 5.5 percent of program costs in the NA. Communities are expected to
contribute about US$2.5 million equivalent in the form of labor and local building materials for the
construction of schools, as well as matching contributions for maintenance and learning materials
costs. Habitual contributions by the community in the form of donated land, uniform and textbook
purchases, or other forms of parental and community spending have not been included in program
cost calculations.
B. Project Costs
3.2        The IDA credit of US$22.8 million equivalent would finance about 63 percent of total
project costs of US$36.0 million equivalent. Estimates of project cost by component are presented in
table 3.3. Detailed costs by region, components, and categories of expenditure are found in Annex 9.
3.3        Basis of Cost Estimates. Base costs at appraisal (March 1996) have been updated as of
April 1997 as part of the preparation of regional PC-ls. Base costs are calculated as follows: (a)
civil works are based on current market rates; (b) vehicles, equipment, furniture, books and supplies
are based on lists of items prepared by the Directorate/Department of Education of the NA and AJK
on the basis of prevailing c.i.f. prices or local market prices as applicable; (c) costs of consultants and
technical assistance reflect current rates, and overseas fellowships are based on regional costs; and (d)
the costs of salaries and allowances are based on current GOP scales.
3.4        Customs and Duties. Goods specifically imported for the project may be admitted free
of duties and taxes. Locally procured goods and services, including materials for construction and
construction contracts carry duties and taxes at varying rates. Project costs include import duties and
taxes estimated at a total of US$2.3 million equivalent.



29
Table 3.1: Northern Areas and Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Estimated Elementary Education Program (1997/98 - 2001/02)
(Current Rs. and US$ million)
1996-97  1997-98  1998-99  1999-00 2000-01  2001-02 Total
(Base)                                         5 Years)
NORTHERN AREAS
DEVELOPMENT                           86.5   174.6   188.9   225.6   323.4   323.4   1235.9
NON-DEVELOPMENT                      173.7   207.1   245.7   291.5   345.6   409.7   1499.6
Salary                            152.8   182.2   216.2   256.5   304.2   360.6   1319.7
Non-Salary                         20.9    24.9    29.5    35.0    41.4    49.1    179.9
NA Program Total (Rs.)               260.2   381.7   434.6   517.1   669.0   733.1   2735.5
NA Program Total (US$)                 7.9     8.6     9.5    10.8    13.3    14.0      56.2
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
DEVELOPMENT                          97.8   147.2   205.1   278.0   278.0   278.0   1186.3
NON-DEVELOPMENT                      565.2   695.0   852.3  1008.9  1175.4  1369.4   5101.0
Salary                            536.9   653.3   792.6   928.2  1069.6  1232.4   4676.1
Non-Salary                         28.3    41.7    59.7    80.7   105.8   137.0    424.9
AJK Program Total (Rs.)              663.0   842.2  1057.4  1286.9  1453.4  1647.4   6287.3
AJK Program Total (US$)               20.0    19.1    23.1    26.8    28.8    31.5    129.3
PROGRAM TOTAL (Rs.)                  923.2  1223.9  1492.0  1804.0  2122.4  2380.5   9022.8
PROGRAM TOTAL (US$)                   27.9    27.7    32.6    37.6     2      L5.5    185.5
Table 3.2: Northern Areas and Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Elementary Education Program Financing Plan
(Rs. and US$ million)
GOP        IDA      DFID       SAP    COMMUNITIES  TOTAL
Program (Rs. million)       6,944.8    1,095.6   145.3    711.3 1/       125.8       9,022.8
Program (US$ million)         142.8      22.8      3.1     14.3            2.5        185.5
Percent         77.0%      12.3%     1.7%     7.7%           1.3%     100%
" At about 10 percent of GOP's contribution to the total elementary education program.



Table 3.3: Pakistan, Northern Education Project
Azad Jammu Kashmir and Northern Areas
Components Project Cost Summary
(Rs. Million)             (US$ Million}_
%       % Total
Foreign    Base
Local  Foreign   Total        Local  Foreign Total       Exchange   Costs
A. Improving Quality of Education
1. Teacher Training                                      156.0     63.6    219.6         3.7      1.5     5.3         29          16
2. Curriculum & Education Materials Dev.                  29.1     35.5      64.6        0.7      0.9      1.6        55           5
3. Assessments                                            19.1      37.9     57.0        0.5      0.9      1.4        66           4
Subtotal                204.2    137.0    341.3         4.9      3.3      8.2        40          25
B. Increasing Equitable Access and
Support to Community Schools
1. Dangerous and Shelterless Schools                     321.9     37.3    359.2         7.7      0.9     8.6         10          26
2. Community School Construction                         288.6      32.5    321.1        6.9      0.8      7.7        10          24       ,
Subtotal                610.5      69.8    680.3       14.7      1.7    16.3         10          50
C. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1. DOE Strengthening                                     105.7     54.1    159.8         2.5      1.3     3.8         34          12
2. EducationManagement Information System                  6.6      4.6      11.2        0.2      0.1     0.3         41           1
3. Monitoring & Evaluation                                 5.9      7.2      13.1        0.1      0.2     0.3         55           1
Subtotal                118.2      65.9    184.1        2.8      1.6      4.4        36          13
D. Community Participation
1. Support to Community Schools                          117.2     30.7    147.9        2.8       0.7     3.6         21          11
2. Establishment of School Committees                      9.1       1.8     10.9        0.2      0.0     0.3         17           1
Subtotal                126.3      32.5    158.8        3.0      0.8      3.8        20          12
Total BASELINE COSTS                                          1059.2    305.3  1.364.5        25.4       7.4    32.8         22         100
Physical Contingencies                                    44.5       7.5     52.0        1.1      0.2      1.2        14           4
Price Contingencies                                      269.1      63.3    332.3        1.6      0.4     2.0         20           6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           1.372.8    376.1  1I.7489       28.1       7.9    36.0         22         110
Note: Figures may not sum exactly due to rounding.



31
3.5        Contingencies and Allowances. Project cost estimates include physical contingencies
(US$1.2 million) averaging four percent of base costs. A physical contingency of 7 percent was
applied to civil works, and five percent to vehicles, equipment, and furniture. Price contingencies
amount to US$2.0 million, or six percent of base costs. Annual inflation estimates for local costs are:
9.0 percent in FY1997-98, 7.7 percent in FY1998-99, 7.1 percent in FY1999-00, and 6.9 percent in
FY2000-01, and in FY2001-02. Annual inflation estimates for foreign costs are 2.2 percent in FY
1997-98, 2.6 percent in FY1998-99, 2.8 percent in FY1999-00, and 2.4 percent in FY2000-01 and
FY2001-02.
3.6        Foreign Exchange Component and Local Cost Financing. The estimated foreign
exchange component (US$7.9 million), including contingencies, represents 22 percent of total project
costs. It has been calculated based on the following assumptions regarding foreign exchange content:
(a) civil works - 10 percent; (b) vehicles - 72 percent; (c) books and materials - 73 percent; (d)
equipment - 87 percent; (e) international consultants and fellowships - 85 percent; (f) furniture - 4
percent; (g) grants and honorarium - 23 percent; (h) operations and maintenance - 15 percent; and (i)
other operational costs - 33 percent. These assumptions are derived from experience with similar
projects in Pakistan. The high local cost component of the project is fairly typical of primary
education projects, where many activities involve inputs which are widely available locally or are by
their nature locally based. For example although foreign consultants are involved under the project in
improving the content and methodology of teacher training, the costs of teacher training itself are
predominantly local. Similarly, school construction under the project involves building simple
structures in extremely remote areas, where reliance on local materials and labor results in dramatic
savings on both initial construction and maintenance costs. Given both the goals and nature of the
project, the high local cost component is justified.
C. Financing Arrangements
3.7        The IDA Credit of US$22.8 million equivalent would finance about 63 percent of costs
net of taxes and duties (estimated at US$2.3 million). DFID would finance a portion of NEP
activities in the NA, amounting to 8.6 percent of the project overall (estimated at US$3.1 million).
The GOP would contribute US$ 7.7 million equivalent (21.5 percent of total project costs), while
community contributions to construction and maintenance would make up the remaining 7 percent
(costs are estimated at US$2.5 million). A financing plan is found in Table 3.4. At Negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it intends to enter into an agreement with DFID for financing of a portion
of program activities in the NA (para. 5.2(o)). Fulfillment of DFID's conditions of effectiveness
would be a condition of disbursement for the IDA credit in the NA (para. 5.3(a)).
D. Procurement
3.8        The program nature of the project makes it difficult to forecast in detail both the total
procurement amounts for different categories of expenditure and the anticipated amounts of IDA
financing within these categories. The figures given below and in Table 3.5 should be regarded as
indicative; final details would be discussed between the Governments and IDA as part of the regular
yearly agreements. Procurement of goods, services, and works financed by the IDA credit would be
undertaken in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revised January and August 1996). The Government's national competitive bidding
procedures, already used in on-going IDA funded projects, have been found to be satisfactory and
acceptable to IDA.



Table 3.4: Pakistan, Northern Education Project
Azad Jammu Kashniir and Northern Areas
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
International               Department2'
Development    Community" for International   Gov. of                     Local
Association    Contribution  Development  Pakistan    Total      For.  (Excl. Duties&
Amount %    Amount  %   Amount  %  Amount %  Amount %   Exch. Taxes) Taxes
A. Improving Quality of Education
1. Teacher Training                        3.5   63.2    -       -      1.1  20.5  0.9  16.3  5.6  15.5   1.6   3.7   0.2
2. Curriculum & Education Materials Dev.    1.4   82.4    -       -     0.2  9.4  0.1   8.2  1.6   4.5   0.9   0.6   0.1
3. Assessments                              0.6   44.6    -       -     0.6  43.4  0.2  12.0  1.4   3.9   0.9   0.3   0.2
Subtotal        5.5   63.8    -        -     1.9  22.2  1.2  14.1  8.6  24.0   3.5   4.7   0.5
B. Increasing Equitable Access and
Support to Community Schools
1. Dangerous and Shelterless Schools       7.0   71.3   0.3    3.2   0.2  1.8  2.3  23.7  9.8  27.2   1.0   7.9   0.9
2. Community School Construction            4.3   48.0   2.0   22.7    -    -    2.6  29.2  8.0  24.7   0.9   7.2   0.7
Subtotal        11.3   60.2   2.3   12.5   0.2  0.9  4.9  26.3  18.7  51.8   1.9  15.1   1.6  o
C. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1. DOE Strengthening                       2.4   58.6    -        -     0.3  7.4  1.4  34.0  4.0  11.2   1.4   2.5   0.1
2. Education Management Information System  0.1   43.0    -       -     0.1  40.9  0.0  16.0  0.3   0.8   0.1   0.2   0.0
3. Monitoring&Evaluation                   0.1   43.3    -        -     0.1  43.9  0.0  12.8  0.3   0.9   0.2   0.1   0.0
Subtotal        2.6   56.5    -       -      0.6  12.1  1.5  31.4  4.7  13.0   1.7   2.8   0.2
D. Community Participation
1. Support to Community Schools            3.2   83.9   0.1    3.4   0.4  10.7  0.1   2.0  3.8  10.4   0.8   3.0   0.02
2. Establishment of School Committees       0.2   75.1   0.0   12.8    -    -    0.0  12.2  0.3   0.8   0.0              0.01
Subtotal        3.4   83.3   0.2    4.1   0.4  9.9  0.1   2.7  4.0  11.2   0.8   3.2   0.04
Total          22.8   63.1   2.5    7.0   3.1  8.5  7.7  21.4  36.0 100.0  7.9  25.8   2.3
Note: Figures may not sum exactly due to rounding.
81 Communities donation of land not included.
b/ DFID has proposed financing of about US$3.1 million for project activities in the Northern Areas.



33
Table 3.5: Pakistan, Northern Education Project
Azad Jammu Kashmir and Northern Areas
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
International    National
Competitive    Competitive              Non-Bank-
Project Element                Bidding      Bidding      Other/a     Financed/b     Total
1. Civil Works                                      10.4        4.5          2.3           17.3
(7.0)      (3.0)                     (10.0)
2. Goods
(a) Vehicles                         1.2                                                 1.2
(1 . 1)                                             (1. 1)
(b) Equipment                                     0.6                     0.1            0.7
(0.6)                                 (0.6)
(c) Furniture                                     2.3                     0.01           2.3
(1.9)                                 (1.9)
(d) Books & Materials                                         0.9         0.01           0.9
(0.9)                      (0.9)
3. Technical Assistance
(a) Institutional Development                                2.0          2.5            4.5
(1.5)                      (1.5)
(b) Training                                                  1.7         0.4            2.2
(1.7)                      (1.7)
4. Grants-Community Support & NGOs                              3.1                         3.1
(3.0)                      (3.0)
5. Other
(a) Incremental Salaries                                     2.2                         2.2
(1.6)                      (1.6)
(b) Operating costs and Travel                                1.6         0.2            1.7
and Daily Allowances                                    (0.4)                       (0.4)
Total                   1.2         13.4       16.1          5.6           36.0
(1.1)         a.       (1.2          (0.0)         (22.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA. Figures may not sum exactly due to
rounding.
a/ Other procurement methods include force account, shopping, hiring of consultant services
under IDA guidelines, administrative expenditures following Government procedures, and
community-managed construction.
b/ Includes community contribution of US$2.5 million (excluding donation of land), and DFID-
financed activities in the Northern Areas.



34
3.9        The project would finance the procurement of civil works (about US$17.3 million
equivalent); vehicles (about US$1.2 million equivalent); equipment, including computers (about
US$0.7 million equivalent); furniture (about US$2.3 million equivalent); books and materials (about
US$0.9 million equivalent); technical assistance (both institutional development -- about US$4.5
million equivalent, and training -- about US$2.2 million equivalent); community grants and NGO
contracts (about US$3.1 million equivalent); incremental staff salaries (about US$2.2 million
equivalent), and operating costs, including school maintenance and travel/daily allowances (about
US$1.7 million equivalent). Most procurement under the project is expected to involve small
contracts spread over widely dispersed geographical areas and throughout the project period. The
nature of such contracts is unlikely to interest foreign bidders, and would, therefore, be suitable only
for National Competitive Bidding (NCB), and prudent shopping. The exception would be vehicles,
which would be procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. At
Negotiations, the Government provided sample bidding documents for (a) vehicle procurement
through ICB (using Bank Standard Bidding documents); and (b) equipment procurement through NCB
(para. 5.2.(d)).
3.10       IDA Review Requirements. IDA, would review all ICB and contracts above
US$200,000 equivalent, as well as the first four contracts in each area irrespective of their value. All
other contracts would be subject to selective post-review. All consultants would be selected in
accordance with IDA guidelines, which include prior review of all contracts with consulting firms
costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or more and with individual consultants costing the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more. Other procurement arrangement subject to prior review by IDA include: (a) all
single-source contracts; (b) all contracts for assignments of a critical nature, as determined by IDA;
(c) amendments to IDA-financed contracts raising the contract value above US$100,000 for consulting
firms or US$50,000 for individuals; and (d) terms of reference for technical assistance and training.
Selection and employment of consultants would be undertaken in accordance with the Guidelines
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997).
E. Disbursements
3.11       The proposed IDA credit of US$22.8 million equivalent would cover expenditures
incurred from FY1997-98 to FY2001-02. Actual annual disbursement would depend on performance,
and the pattern of expenditure yearly agreed upon. Estimated annual disbursements are presented in
Annex 10. The proposed project would cover reimbursements for incremental expenditures under the
project, while SAPP would continue to reimburse at about its established level for NA and AJK.
Both the NEP and SAPP projects would place particular emphasis on increasing non-salary recurrent
allocations, and ensuring the timely release of budgets within the first quarter of each fiscal year.
Agreement that Government funds would be released to the Department/Directorate of Education by
the fifteenth of the first month of every quarter was reached during Negotiations (para. 5.2(b)).
3.12       The project would reimburse a proportion of all eligible expenditures incurred in the
elementary education sectors of the NA and AJK, excluding any already donor-aided projects and/or
activities.28 The annual agreement between the Government and IDA (and any other project donors)
28 There are none at present -- two donor-aided projects in the elementary education sector in AJK are
scheduled to end by December 1996. DFID financing of technical assistance and NGO activities in the NA may
follow separate DFID disbursement procedures.



35
would include a detailed identification of eligible categories of expenditure. Certain categories of
expenditure have been identified as outside the project, and are therefore ineligible for project
funding. These include development and recurrent expenditures for the secondary and higher level of
education, with the exception of construction of female teacher training colleges in the NA. Other
expenditure categories such as land acquisition, taxes, and duties are ineligible under IDA rules.
Apart from these exceptions, all expenditures incurred in the delivery of elementary education
including incremental salaries, operating expenses, training, civil works and maintenance expenses
would be eligible.
3.13       Reimbursement would be claimed at least quarterly and perhaps more frequently,
depending on the capacity of the NA and AJK to generate claims. Claims would normally be made in
the form of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) specifying categories of expenditure and total eligible
expenditure. In those few cases where contracts for goods and civil works exceed US$200,000
equivalent, US$100,000 for consulting firms or US$50,000 for individual consultants, full
documentation would be required. All claims would be certified by the respective Secretaries of the
DOEs, who would then submit them to IDA. Only claims above US$ 50,000 equivalent would be
submitted to IDA for reimbursement/payment. SOEs would have to be received by IDA within six
months of the end of the fiscal year in which the expenditure was incurred. This would ensure
flexible reallocation of unused resources from portions of the program which may be underspending,
and maximum funding availability for those areas of the program where expenditures are occurring.
3.14       Credit disbursements would finance: (a) 70 percent of all expenditures on civil works,
70 percent of all expenditures on furniture and 20 percent of all expenditures on other operational
costs during FY1998 -- thereafter such percentage will be annually agreed between the Governments
and IDA; (b) 100 percent of foreign and 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 85
percent of local expenditures procured locally on vehicles and equipment; (c) 100 percent of all
expenditures on books and materials, technical assistance, and training; (d) 100 percent of
expenditures on incremental salaries until June 30, 1999; 60 percent until June 30, 2001; and 40
percent thereafter; and (e) community support at 97 percent.
3.15       Special Accounts. To ensure timely and efficient execution of project activities, two
special accounts, one for the NA and one for AJK, would be established. In both cases, the accounts
would be opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The authorized amount of the Special
Account for the NA would be US$400,000 equivalent, with an initial deposit limited to US$200,000.
In the case of AJK, the authorized amount would be US$300,000 equivalent, with an initial deposit
limited to US$150,000 equivalent. Funds from the Special Accounts would be available for financing
only IDA's share of eligible project expenditures. IDA would replenish the Special Accounts upon
receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures were eligible for financing out of the accounts.
Withdrawals from the Special Accounts would be possible after IDA receives confirmation of: (a) the
appointment of qualified accountants in each region, having a minimum of five years experience and
BS-17 or above; and (b) plans for the establishment of a financial management system for project
implementation in both areas.
F. Accounts and Audits
3.16       The DOE in each region would maintain separate accounts of project expenditures in
accordance with sound accounting practices, and project accounts would be audited in accordance
with Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (1992).



36
Financial management procedures and provisions for accounting, disbursement, and procurement staff
have been agreed with the Government. The project would support technical assistance and training
to strengthen financial management in the NA and AJK. Additional details are found in Annex 12.
The accounts, SOEs and procurement documentation would be audited each year by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the relevant
fiscal year. The audit reports would include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting system
and internal financial control, the reliability of SOEs, use of Special Accounts and the degree of
compliance with agreed financial arrangements. Agreement that the Governments would maintain
separate project accounts which would be audited yearly by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
was confirmed during Negotiations (para. 5.2(f)).



37
IV. ASSESSMENTS
A. Financial Assessment and Sustainability
4.1        If the Government's current priorities of improving access to and quality of elementary
education are to be implemented, the level of educational expenditures would need to increase over
the next few years. In the NA, a large proportion of the needed expenditures at the elementary level
represents investments in access and quality improvements which will have important pay-offs in the
medium and longer term and without which the system will remain stagnant and call for much larger
investments in later years. Increased allocations to elementary education in AJK are also necessary to
make up for the low quality and deficits in education stocks; low levels of spending and a focus on
the expansion of access at the expense of quality have resulted in low student achievement and poor
education assets, such as inadequately trained teachers, dangerous and poorly maintained schools, and
lack of school equipment.
4.2        In order to meet program needs, the share of education in the total ADP will need to
increase over the next five years. It is estimated that education development expenditures would need
to rise at an average annual rate of 18 percent and 17 percent in the NA and AJK respectively over
the project period (compared to an average annual increase of 21 percent and 3 percent in NA and
AJK respectively over the past five years). The declining trend in the recurrent (non-development)
spending in elementary education also needs to be reversed. In the NA, elementary education non-
development expenditures will need to increase at an average of 11 percent in real terms. Non-salary
allocations will need to be maintained at the 1995-96 level of 12 percent of the elementary education
allocations. In AJK, elementary non-development allocations will need to increase faster than for the
sector as a whole, 11 percent versus 9 percent, in order to make up for the recent declines. Non-
salary allocations, practically non-existent at present, will need to grow at an average of about 28
percent (see Annex 2 for tables and additional information).
4.3        These increases in the NA and AJK budgets are proportionally large when compared to
the very low current allocations, but very modest in absolute terms. They are marginal increases
within the context of the total federal budget. The education sector development expenditures in the
NA and AJK represent a very small part of the total federal development expenditures -- only about
one quarter of one percent in 1995-96. The projected education sector allocations (inclusive of the
proposed project) required during 1996-97 to 2001-02 would increase the above mentioned share to
less than one half of one percent. The increases planned for the NA and AJK education sector
budgets as part of the overall budget are thus extremely small and well within the capacity of the
federal Government. Federal commitment to providing these levels of increased resources to the NA
and AJK was confirmed at Negotiations.
4.4        With regard to the sustainability of project investments beyond the life of the project, the
level of recurrent resources required to sustain quality improvement, institutional development, and
infrastructure investments is likely to be low. Increased involvement of communities in the
construction and/or maintenance of school buildings is expected to generate additional resources,
irnprove the communities' sense of ownership of, and responsibility for, school property, and
preserve investments over a longer time period through improved and more regular maintenance
routines. The heaviest potential burden on future NA education budgets may be the need for
continued support to community schools. Although it is the intent of the DOE to experiment with
mechanisms to make community schools virtually self-sustaining, this may not be a realistic goal,



38
particularly in the poorest communities. Nevertheless, even if the DOE were to have to assume the
full cost of additional financial support in the form of a per-student subsidy to community schools,
the yearly cost is estimated to be only approximately four percent of the total program budget in the
final year of the program, or six percent of recurrent (non-development) resources during the same
year. This level of effort is considered financially manageable, and a relatively light burden given
that community school enrollments are projected to make up approximately 23 percent of total
enrollments by the final year of the program. SAP/SAPP policy and financial support (particularly
with regard to recurrent budgets and non-salary spending) are also expected to enhance project
sustainability.
B. Institutional Assessment
4.5        As indicated in Chapter I (paras. 1.31 to 1.38), institutional capacity is quite different in
AJK and the NA. Along with its much larger education system, the DOE in AJK is far larger and
more complex than the Directorate of Education in the NA, which has a skeletal staff and has not
seen any increases to central administration staff in the last 20 years. Institutional issues in AJK
center on effective coordination and use of existing staff and information, as well as upgrading of
skills, while in the NA the challenge for program implementation will be recruiting adequate staff,
training, and developing an organizational structure capable of effectively handling a fairly rapid
expansion of the education system. There is also a slightly higher level of technical expertise in the
education units in AJK (CRDC and the EMIS unit, for example) than exists in the NA. AJK also has
had limited experience with outside donor funding and regulations (for civil works, in particular),
while the NA has not had such prior experience.
4.6        Capacities also differ in the non-government sector. With the exception of the National
Rural Support Network, an NGO which has been operating for the last three years in the district of
Poonch, there are practically no professionally-managed NGOs in AJK, nor larger welfare
organizations with a track-record of broad-based community organization. In the NA, in contrast,
AKESP has 30 plus years of experience working in the education sector in the NA, while AKRSP has
been organizing community groups across the five districts for the last 15 years. While relatively
lean in terms of staff, both organizations have demonstrated capacity to initiate, staff, and monitor
programs. Although neither organization has had experience with formal Government relations, there
is a history of informal cooperation with Government agencies (including the DOE).
4.7        Given limitations to institutional capacity (particularly within the DOE), technical
assistance, both local (including NGOs) and foreign, is likely to be an important factor in smooth
project implementation in both regions. A detailed description of projected technical assistance needs,
as well as monitoring indicators, is included in Annex 11. With few exceptions, the objective of most
of the technical assistance envisioned would be the establishment of permanent institutional capacity,
through setting up baseline information and systems, and training of staff.
C. Economic Assessment, Benefits and Risks
Benefits
4.8         The project would directly or indirectly benefit over one million children over the five
years of project implementation, through a combination of improvements in school quality and access.
In the NA, it is expected that the project would expand overall enrollments at the elementary level by



39
approximately 28 percent over current levels and double the-number of girls in school. An increased
level of literacy improves economic productivity and income-earning potential for both sexes; for
girls, additional years of education and literacy are known to have a positive effect on lowering
population growth and infant mortality (see also Annex 13). Difficulties with data collection and
information for the NA and AJK, lack of data on earnings in these regions, and problems in valuing
the broader social benefits that would accrue with the NEP project make formal cost-benefit and rates
of return analysis unfeasible. Rates of return to schooling in Pakistan, however, can be used as a
proxy. These rates are consistent with other studies which indicate that returns to education are high,
and that social returns to education are highest at the lower levels of education (20% private rate of
return and 13% social rate of return at the primary level)29.
4.9         Further benefits expected from the project include: (a) improvements in learning
achievement through better trained teachers, more appropriate materials, and a more hospitable
learning environment; (b) lower teacher absenteeism, improved school maintenance, and improved
system accountability through community participation in school management; (c) a reduction in
dropout rates (particularly for girls) and higher overall completion rates through a combination of
improvements in the learning environment, community sensitization and monitoring, the recruitment
of female teachers, and improved access at the middle levels; (d) improved availability of qualified
female teachers (in the NA); and (e) improvements in system management and resource allocation
through better information and planning practices and more qualified staff.
Cost Effectiveness
4.10       The overall aim of the proposed project is to improve the quality of and access to
elementary education, especially for female students. The design and preparation of the project were
aimed at developing the most cost effective approach to these objectives, given the prevailing
conditions in each region. Examples of alternative approaches evaluated include those chosen with
regard to construction, teacher training, and expansion of access. In the NA, for example, the
decision was made to proceed with a participatory approach to construction involving communities.
This approach is expected to lower overall construction costs by about 30 percent, and given a long
history of participatory construction in the NA, was considered viable. In AJK, in contrast, a
participatory approach to construction was not suggested, as the logical implementing agency had no
experience with this type of construction and the institutional hurdles were considered too great.
With regard to teacher training, the choice was made to expand the FBTD program to meet the bulk
of training needs in the NA. This program is a model of cost effective training for areas with great
need. It requires no investment in facilities, as it is conducted in existing schools and district offices.
Per-student costs for the training are lower than training done in colleges, but the effectiveness of
FBTD lies not only in its modest cost but in its intensive focus on practical skills.
4.11       Finally, in deciding how to approach the great need for expansion of access in the NA
while keeping the Government and region's fiscal constraints in mind, the project opted to support the
expansion of the community schools program. While the program is still quite new and available data
are not sufficient to support a robust cost-effectiveness analysis, existing data suggest that even after
increasing the level of financing to community schools they would be less expensive to run than the
normal Government school. Recent sector work on community participation in other parts of
29 Behrman, Jere R., 1995.



40
Pakistan also suggests that schools with substantial community involvement tend to be more effective
in terms of learning outcomes (see Annex 13 for a more detailed discussion).'
Risks
4.12        During preparation, an effort has been made to analyze and reduce project risks.
Nevertheless, risks remain especially given the remoteness of the regions and their lack of experience
with projects. The project faces risks related to: (a) design, (b) implementation; (c) financial
environment and (d) political factors. With regard to project design, the heavy emphasis on
community participation presents both potential benefits and risks. Reliance on community
participation in construction may mean that construction moves more slowly. In AJK there is likely
to be substantial-institutional resistance to meaningful community involvement in school affairs, while
in the NA the reliance on community schools as the principal means for increasing access to education
risks overburdening communities and furthering inequities between the communities that can
contribute a lot, and those that can contribute very little to their children's education. The project has
attempted to mitigate these risks through the use of pilots, drawing on local expertise whenever
possible, and supporting and further developing the community school program. While the risks still
exist, we believe the potential benefits outweigh them. The absence or poor quality of basic data in
both areas also means that estimates of system needs may be considerably off. The project design has
attempted to take this risk into account by adopting a more flexible approach with Annual Reviews.
4.13        Implementation risks include the executing agencies' relatively weak institutional
capacity, lack of experience with Bank procedures and managerial requirements, heavy internal
bureaucracy, and the possible turnover of key managers and staff. The project addresses the first two
of these risks through keeping project components as simple as possible, relying whenever possible on
locally available expertise, strengthening critical DOE departments or areas, and including technical
assistance and training. While the project cannot change the Government's rules of business, it seeks
to avoid some levels of bureaucracy through dealing directly with the AJK and NA Governments as
much as possible, rather than channelling everything though a federal level coordination unit. The
last risk -- turnover of key managers and staff -- can without doubt have the most negative effects on
project implementation. Actions taken or to be taken to reduce this risk include making sure the
project is broadly discussed and supported within the existing institutions as part of project
preparation, planning for the provision of ongoing training and technical assistance, and using Annual
Reviews as a forum for raising overall concerns with the Government.
4.14        The principal financial risk to the project is the possible deleterious effects of federal
budget cutbacks on overall budgetary allocations to the NA and AJK, and within these, specifically to
education. A SAPP-type project is the logical framework for addressing these issues. Risks related
to political factors include interference in site selection for construction of schools and in teacher
appointments, as well as changes of Government, a possible flare-up of sectarian violence in the NA,
or a change in the overall status of AJK. The first of these two risks will be addressed through the
use of school mapping results for the rational selection of school sites and through the use of merit-
based criteria in the hiring of teachers. Over the remaining risks, of course, the project has no
30 See "Improving Basic Education in Pakistan: Community Participation, System Accountability, and
Efficiency." World Bank, 1995.



41
control. Given the high priority of improving education in these neglected areas, the risks overall are
considered acceptable.
D. Environmental Assessment
4.15       No adverse impact on the enviromnent is expected from this project (screening category
C). Some benefit is expected through lower population pressure, an increasingly literate population,
and the possible integration of environmental themes into revised educational materials. No
involuntary resettlement is anticipated, since land for school construction will be acquired through
voluntary community contributions, as verified through a "community dialogue" process developed
with the help of participating NGOs.



I



42
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1        Prior to Negotiations, the Government fulfilled the following conditions by
forwarding to IDA:
(a)  final and formally approved copies of NA and AJK documents on strategies and
priorities in the elementary education sector (para. 2.3);
(b)   project PC-Is for NA and AJK, already approved by the Executive Committee of the
National Economic Council (ECNEC) (para. 2.36);
(c)   drafts of the NA and AJK Project Implementation Plans (PIP) (para. 2.36);
(d)  signed contracts of technical assistance to conduct the first stages of a school mapping
exercise in the NA and AJK (para. 2.17).
5.2        At Negotiations, the Government:
(a)   confirmed the strategies and priorities contained in the AJK and NA documents
mentioned above (para. 2.3);
(b)   agreed that: (i) annual sub-programs for each project year would be prepared and agreed
with IDA, covering both Government and non-government inputs, activities, policy
reforms and financial commitments; (ii) any major proposed change to the approved
program would be agreed in advance with IDA; and (iii) funds would be released to the
Department/Directorate of Education by the fifteenth of the first month of every quarter
(paras. 2.2 and 3.11);
(c)   agreed that the NA and AJK Steering Committees would meet at least twice yearly and
the Project Implementation Committees would meet at least once a month (para. 2.35);
(d)   provided sample bidding documents and contracts for (i) vehicle procurement through
ICB; and (ii) equipment procurement through NCB (para. 3.9);
(e)   agreed that both Governments will prepare and submit to IDA annual progress reports
(para. 2.41);
(f)   agreed that both Governments will keep separate project accounts which would be
audited yearly by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 3.16);
(g)   provided assurances regarding the full staffing of the Directorate(s) of Education in the
NA and in AJK (para. 2.22);
(h)   agreed that a Government-IDA Mid-Term Review would be conducted by May 2000
(para. 2.41);



43
(i)   agreed that an Implementation Completion Report would be submitted by the
Government to IDA within six months of the project Closing Date (para. 2.41);
(j)   provided a draft policy on postings and transfers of staff in AJK (para. 2.22);
(k)  for the NA, provided IDA with assurances that the Government will enter into an
agreement with AKDN agencies regarding their participation in project activities, based
on the draft technical proposal submitted to IDA and the approved PC-I (para. 2.38);
(1)   agreed on the terms, conditions and procedures of grants (para. 2.29);
(m)  agreed that support to community schools in the NA will be provided in accordance with
policies, procedures and guidelines satisfactory to IDA and publicly announced no later
than December 31, 1998 (para. 2.29);
(n)   agreed that the Government will monitor and evaluate the implementation of the project
in accordance with agreed Performance Indicators (para. 2.26);
(o)  confirmed that the Government intends to enter into an agreement with DFID for
financing of a portion of program activities in the NA (para. 3.7);
(p)   confirmed satisfactory progress on the FY 1997/98 SAP operational plan for the NA and
AJK education sectors (para. 2.1);
(q)  submitted the NA and AJK Annual Plans for FY1997-98 (para. 2.36);
5.3        There will be three conditions of Disbursement:
(a)   For the NA, satisfaction of effectiveness conditions of DFID agreement (para.
3.7);
(b)   For both the NA and AJK, no disbursements will be made in respect of a
sub-program unless such sub-program has been approved by IDA (para. 2.2); and
(c)   For grants to community schools in the NA, no disbursements will be made
unless grants conform to the terms and conditions agreed with IDA (para. 2.29).
5.4        Subject to the above understandings and conditions, the proposed project provides a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 16.4 million (US$22.8 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms for 35 years maturity to the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



ANNEXE S






PAKISTAN - NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
NORTHERN AREAS EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS
Table 1: Trends in Total Enrollment by Level and Year, Northern Areas, 1992-94 (a)
Primary K-V (b)                     Middle VI-MI                            High IX-X
Year          Male   Female       Total % growth     Male   Female       Total % growth     Male   Female       Total % growth
1992         41536    18799    60335                 13050     4237    17287                 4424      1132      5556
1993         43295    22081    65376         8%      13948     4544    18492        7%       4773      1177      5950       7%
1994         50799    23228    74027        13%      15832     4989    20821        13%      5859      1244      7103      19%
Source: Directorate of Education, Northern Areas
(a) AKESP enrollments are included for all years; other private schools not included (unavailable).
(b) Assumes under-age students are included.
Table 2: Elementary Enrollment and Gender Balance by District, Northern Areas, 1994
Primary K-V (a)       Females           Middle V-MII          Female
District   Males   Female    Total  as %Total  Males   Female    Total  as %Total
Gilgit       14140    10021    24161        41%       4505      2738     7243       38%
Ghanche       7023      1717      8740      20%       2146       235     2381       10%
Diamer       10041      2064    12105       17%       2753       116     2869        4%
Ghizer        7967      5729    13696       42%       3318      1299     4617       28%
Skardu (d)    11628     3697    15325       24%       3110       601     3711       16%
Total        50799    23228    74027        31%      15832      4989    20821       24%
Source: Directorate of Education, Northem Areas; AKESP
(a) Assumes under-age students are Included.
t',J
aq>
CD 
_ 



47                                       ANN-EX I
Page 2 of 12
Table 3.1: Participation Rate for Primary Classes, K-V, Northern Areas, 1994
(Age Group 4-9 Years)
Males                        Females
District  Population Enrollment  Rate   Population Enrollment  Rate
Gilgit        18042    14140        78%      17332    10021        58%
Ghanche        9441      7023       74%       9138      1717       19%
Diamer        14828    10041        68%      14320      2064       14%
Ghizer         9000      7967       89%       8627      5729       66%
Skardu        17575    11628        66%      16931      3697       22%
Total         68886    50799        74%     66348    23228         35%
Source: Directorate of Education, NA and AKESP for enrollment; National Institute for Population Studies and
World Bank population projections from 1981 Census for 1994.
Note: Enrollment assumes "infants" are included; community school enrollments are not included.
Table 3.2: Participation Rate for Middle Classes, Northern Areas, 1994
(Age Group 10-12 Years)
Males                        Females
District   Population Enrollment  Rate   Population Enrollment  Rate
Gilgit         7786      4505       58%       7593      2738       36%
Ghanche        3865      2146       56%       3863       235        6%
Diamer         6259      2753       44%      6132        116        2%
Ghizer         3771      3318       88%       3654      1299       36%
Skardu         7420      3110       42%       7252       601        8%
Total         29101     15832       54%     28494       4989       18%
Source: Directorate of Education, NA and AKESP for enrollment; National Institute for Population Studies and
World Bank population projections from 1981 Census for 1994.
Table 3.3: Participation Rate for High Classes, Northern Areas, 1994
(Age Group 13-14 Years)
Males                        Females
District   Population Enrollment  Rate   Population Enrollment  Rate
Gilgit         4895      2074       42%       4570       967       21%
Ghanche        2399       395       16%       2349         4        0%
Diamer         3959       730       18%       3648        20        1%
Ghizer         2363      1567       66%        222       113       51%
Skardu         4785      1093       23%       4822       140        3%
Total         18401      5859       32%      15611      1244        8%
Source: Directorate of Education, NA and AKESP for enrollment; National Institute for Population Studies and
World Bank population projections from 1981 Census for 1994.



Table 4.1: Enrollment By District and Main Providers, Northern Areas, 1994
Distnct/Level    Govemment                                AKESP                          Total
% Total  % Total                      % Total  % Total
Pnimary    Male    Female    Male    Female    Male    Female    Male    Female   Male    Female
Gigit        12108      6493      86%      65%       2032     3528       14%      35%     14140    10021
Skardu       11628      3697    100%      100%                                            11628      3697
Diamer       10041      2064    100%      100%                                            10041      2064
Ghanche       7023      1717    100%      100%                                             7023      1717
Ghizer        5774      1584      72%      28%       2193     4145      28%       72%      7967      5729
Total        46574    15555       92%      67%       4225     7673        8%      33%     50799    23228
Middle
Gigit         4399      1585      98%      58%        106     1153        2%      42%      4505      2738
Skardu        3110       601     100%     100%                                             3110       601
Diamer        2753       116    100%      100%                                             2753       116
Ghanche       2146       235    100%      100%                                             2146       235
Ghizer        3056       233      92%      18%        262     1066        8%      82%      3318      1299
Total        15464      2770      98%       56%       368     2219        2%      44%     15832      4989
High
Gigit         2074       767    100%       79%          0      200        0%      21%      2074       967
Skardu        1039       140    100%      100%                                             1039       140                                                     
Diamer         730        20     100%     100%                                              730        20
Ghanche        395         4    100%      100%                                              395         4
Ghizer        1567        12    100%        11%         0       101       0%      89%      1567       113
Total         5805       943     100%       76%         0       301       0%      24%      5805      1244
Source: Directorate of Education, Northem Areas; AKESP.
Table 4.2: Community School Enrollments, Northern Areas, 1995 (a)
Primary    Male    Female    Total  % Female
Gigit          677      3010     3687       82%
Skardu (b)     464       685     1149      60%
Diamer        1018       928      1946     48%
Ghanche        871      1343     2214      61%
Ghizer         943      1048     1991       53%
Total         3973      7014    10987      64%
CD
Source: Directorate of Education, Northern Areas..
(a) Community schools data is from February 1996 and includes all 250 schools.                                                                          O
Thus far, community schools only serve primary classes.
(b) Enrollment In community schools In Skardu district is underestimated, as approx. 1101 additional students                                            S
were reported, but without differentiating by gender.



Table 5: Teacher Qualifications by District and Type of School, Northern Areas, 1995
LeveIfTraining              Gilgit               Skardu             Ghanche                Ghizer               Diamer                 Total          Grand Total
Primary Schools             Male    Female         Male   Female        Male   Female        Male   Female        Male   Female        Male   Female
Prof.+ Academic/(a)           51           10       100          5        57          1        72          3       109          7       389         26        415
Academic Only                  50          29        57         17        42          9        49          0         65         5       263         60        323
Neither                         7           8         0          0         2          3         3          0        65          6        77         17         94
Total Primary                 108          47       157         22       101         13       124          3       239         18       729        103        832
% Trained (b)                47%         21%       64%        23%       56%         8%       58%       100%       46%        39%       53%        25%        50%
% Untrained                  53%         79%       36%        77%       44%        92%       42%         0%       54%        61%       47%        75%        50%
Middle Schools
Prof + Academicl(c)            49          17        42          8        22          0        33          0        54          1       200         26        226
Academic Only                  53          11        28         26        24          0        25          0         60         2       190         39        229
Neither                        56          30        38          3        28          0        25          0        60         20       207         53        260
Total Middle                  158          58       108         37        74          0        83          0        174        23       597        118        715
% Trained (d)                31%         29%       39%        22%        30%    -             40%                  31%        4%        34%       22%        32%
% Untrained                  69%         71%       61%        78%        70%    -            60%                   69%       96%        66%       78%        68%
Source: Directorate of Education Statistics, 1995
a) Prof = PTC training or above; Academic = Matric (Grade 10) or above.
b) Trained Is defined as having academic and professional credenbals appropriate to level of teaching.
c) Prof = CT or above; Academic = Grade 12 or above.
d) This table may overstate the number of "untrained" teachers at the middle level, since a percentage of teachers in middle
schoolk teach at the primary level. Information is not available on teachers by level, however.
Table 6: Student/Teacher Ratios in
Government Schools, Northern Areas, 1996
Students(a) Teachers(b) Ratio (c)
Primary
Male          54900         729
Female        15986         103
Total         70886         832
Middle
Male          16837         597
Female         5321         118
Total         22158         715
High
Male           5905        1116
Female          1627        274
Total          7532        1390
Gr. Total     100576        2937        34.24
Source: Directorate of Education, NA.                                                                                                                                                    O 
(a) Students are by level, not location (numbers by location are unavailable).                                                                                                           (9
(b) Teachers are by location not level (numbers by level are unavailable).                                                                                                                1  S
(c) Given tt there are primary students in all three locations (primary, middle and high                                                                                                 0
schools) only an overall estimate of the studenttteacher ratio is possible.



50
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 12
Table 7: Educational Institutions in the Northern Areas, By Type and District, 1995
Type                                      District
Goverment               Gilgit    Skardu   Diamer   Ghizer   Ghanche    Total
Primary                      83       187       149         65        74       558
Boys                        58       155       127         58        61       459
Girls                       25        32        22          7        13        99
Middle (a)                   37        36        34         11        15       133
Boys                        27        29        28         11        14       109
Girls                       10         7         6          0         1        24
High (a)                     34        23        15          8        11        91
Boys                        26        20        14          7        10        77
Girls                        8         3         1          1         1        14
Total                       154       246       198         84       100       782
AKESP                        55         0          0        71         0       126
Military                      3         4          1         0         0         8
Private (b)                  31         4         0          4         5        44
Dini Madrasa                  0         2          5         2         1        1.0
Municipal                     0         1         0          0         0          1
Foji Foundation               1         0          1         0         0         2
SAP/Community                48        50        52         50        50       250
Grand Total                 292       307       257       211        156      1223
Source: Directorate of Education, Northern Areas
(a) As in the rest of Pakistan, both middle and high schools include primary classes.
(b) These numbers are not based on a school census and may be underestimated.
Table 8: Physical Condition of Existing Govemment Schools, NA, 1995
Total No. of Shelterless        Need Major          Good/Fair
Schools    Schools   %          Repairs   %          Condition  %
Primary          558
Boys            459
Girls            99
Middle            133
Boys            109
Girls            24
Total            691        170      25%        267       39%        254       37%
Source: Directorate of Education, Northem Areas; Project Preparation estimates.



51
ANNEXJ
Page 6 of 12
Table 9: Summary ratios, Northern Areas, 1994
Enrollment Participation   Female as   StudenVTeacher Student/School   StudenVClassroom
Rate          % of Enroll. Ratio (a)           Ratio (b)          Ratio (c)
Primary          74027            55%
Male            50799            74%         69%
Female         23228            35%           31%
Middle           20821            36%
Male            15832           54%           76%
Female           4989           18%           24%
High              7103           21%
Male             5859           32%           82%
Female           1244             8%          18%
Total           101951            45%          29%            34.2 (d)              130.4         n.a.
Source: Directorate of Education, Northern Areas.
Note: Enrollments, participation rates, and gender ratio include AKESP schools.
(a) 1995 data, Govemment schools. This is an overall estimate, since information is only available on students by level
and teachers by location. Estimate only encompasses govemment schools.
(b) 1995 data, Govemment schools. Here too, only an overall estimate is possible
(since primary students are found in primary,middle, and high schools).
(c) Not available.



PAKISTAN NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR EDUCATIONAL STATISTICS
Table 10: Trends in Total Enrollment by Level and Year, AJK, 1992-95 (a)
Primary K-V (b)                        Middle VI-VMII                          High IX-X
Year         Male   Female       Total % growth     Male  Female       Total % growth     Male   Female       Total % growth
1992        202600   169214   371814               62451    30096    92547                20105     8704    28809
1993        214360   176813   391173        5%     67328    40310   107638       16%      25109     8911    34020       18%
1994        225231   184431   409662        5%     71382    39567   110949        3%      26125    12123    38248       12%
1995        231851   191210   423061        3%     74715    42203   116918        5%      27621    12900    40521        6%
Source: Department of Education, AJK
(a) Private school enrollments are not Included (unavailable).
(b) Under-age students are Included.
Table 11: Elementary Enrollment and Gender Balance by District, AJK, 1994-95
Primary K-V (a)       Females          Middle Vl-VIII        Female
District   Males   Female    Total  as %Total  Males   Female    Total  as %Total
Muzzafara    53912    39312    93224       42%     16159      7035    23194       30%
Poonch       50138    47309    97447       49%     17744    12128    29872        41%
Bagh         34320    26978    61298       44%     11155      5695    16850       34%
Mirpur       46852    41778    88630       47%     16034    10493    26527       40%
Kotli        46629    35833    82462       43%     13623      6852    20475       33%
Total       231851   191210   423061       45%     74715    42203   116918        36%
Source: Department of Education, AJK: EMIS
(a) Under-age students are included (approx. 9% of total primary enrollment).                                                   CD
meJ



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 12
Table 12.1: Participation Rate for Primary Classes, K-V, AJK, 1995
(Age Group 4-9 Years)
Males                        Females
District   Population Enrollment  Rate   Population Enrollment  Rate
Muzzaf.       50801     53912      106%     48321      39312       81%
Mirpur        49641     46852       94%     47101      41778       89%
Bagh          35112    34320        98%     33304    26978         81%
Poonch        51047    50138        98%     48451    47309         98%
Kotli         43862    46629       106%     41620    35833         86%
Total        230463   231851       101%    218797   191210         87%
Source: Department of Education, AJK; EMIS 1994-95
NIPS and World Bank population projections from 1981 Census for 1 995.
Note: 'Under-age" students are included in primary enrollment statistics.
Table 12.2: Participation Rate for Middle Classes, AJK, 1995
(Age Group 10-12 Years)
Males                        Females
District   Population Enrollment  Rate   Population Enrollment  Rate
Muzzaf.       22608     16159       71%     21767       7035       32%
Mirpur        21766    16034        74%     20953    10493        50%
Bagh          14978    11155        74%     14414       5695      40%
Poonch       21478    17744         83%     20692    12128        59%
Kotli         18607    13623        73%     17915       6852      38%
Total         99437    74715        75%     95741      42203       44%
Source: Department of Education, AJK EMIS 1994-95
NIPS and World Bank population projections from 1981 Census for 1995.
Table 12.3: Participation Rate for High Classes, AJK, 1995
(Age Group 13-14 Years)
Males                        Females
District   Population Enrollment  Rate   Population Enrollment  Rate
Total         61698    27621        45%      59494     12900       22%
Source: Department of Education, AJK; EMIS 1994-95
NIPS and World Bank population projections from 1981 Census for 1995.
Note: Breakdown of enrollment data by district is not available.



54                                             ANNEX-1
Page 9 of 12
Table 14.1: Student/Teacher Ratios by                    Table 14.2: StudentVTeacher Ratios by Location
Level; Government Schools, AJK, 1994/95                  Government Primary Schools, AJK, 1995-96
Students(a) Teachers(b) Ratio(c)                         Students(a) Teachers(b) Ratio(c)
Primary                                                  Primary
Male         231851         6930       33.46             Male          141581         3292      43.01
Female        191210         4521      42.29             Female        122501         2540      48.23
Total         423061       11451       36.95             Total         264082         5832      45.28
Middle
Male           74715        3603       20.74            Source: Department of Education AJK; EMIS
Female         42203         1993      21.18            (a) Students by Location (i.e. primary schools)
Total         116918         5596      20.89            (b) Teachers by Location
High                                                    (c) Overall ratio by location.
Male           27621        2309       11.96            Note: A small number of schools are still missing
Female         12900         1198      10.77            from the 1995/96 data.
Total          40521         3507      11.55
Gr. Total      580500        20554      28.24
Source: Department of Education AJK; EMIS 1994-95.
(a) Students are by level, not location.
(b) Teachers are by level, not location.
(c) Ratio is overall by level.



Table 13: Teacher Qualifications by District and Type of School, AJK Government Schools, 1995196 (a)
Level/Training     Muzzafarabad         Poonch                Bagh              Mirpur               Kotli              Total        Grand Total
Pnmary Schools         Male   Female       Male   Female      Male  Female       Male  Female       Male   Female       Male   Female
PTC                     575       367       269      377       203       162      345       246      316       252      1708      1404     3112
CT                      195        41       217        81      140        31      174        11       190       12       916       176      1092
BEd                      25         2       101         2       41         2       64         0        59        1       290         7      297
MEd                        0        0         0         0        2         0        0         0         2        0         4         0         4
Other                     66       14        15         5        7         0       12         6        10        0       110        25       135
Untrained                112      185        22      216        42       153       55       208        33      166       264       928      1192
Total Primary           973       609       624      681       435       348      650       471       610      431      3292      2540      5832
% Trained (b)           88%       70%      96%       68%       90%      56%       92%      56%       95%       61%      92%       63%       80%
% Untrained             12%       30%       4%       32%       10%      44%        8%      44%        5%       39%       8%       37%       20%
Middle Schools
PTC                     222       149       144      212       154       117      177       158       137      126       834       762      1596
CT                      220       133       209      228       133       116      158       114       131       91       851       682      1533
BEd                     223        64       270        94      134        38      217        68       182       32      1026       296      1322
MEd                        2        2         0         0        1         0         1        1         0         0        4         3         7
Other                     40       37         5         9       14         8        12       14        18         3       89        71       160
Untrained                 56       93       216        14       38       112        33      179        22       117      365       515       880
Total Middle             763      478       844       557      474       391       598      534       490       369     3169      2329      5498
%Trained (b)            93%       81%      74%       97%       92%      71%       94%      66%       96%       68%       88%      78%       84%
%Untrained               7%       19%      26%        3%        8%      29%        6%      34%        4%       32%       12%      22%       16%
Source: Department of Education Statistics; EMIS
(a) These 1995-96 figures are still missing a small number of schools;
(b) Trained is defined as having academic dnd professional qualificatons appropriate to level of teaching.
Unlike the NA, AJK is able to classify teachers by level as well as locadon.
H



56                                  ANNEX 1
Page 11 of 12
Table 15: Educational Institutions in AJK by Type, 1995
Government          Private (a)         Total
Primary                   4373                  212                4585
Boys                     2363
Girls                    2010
Middle (b)                 855                   70                 925
Boys                      445
Girls                     410
High (b)                   441                   24                 465
Boys                      299
Girls                     142
Grand Total               5669                  306                5975
Source: Department of Education, AJK; Private Schools Association, Muzzafarabad.
(a) Private schools are normally co-educational, with a predominance of boys.
(b) As in the rest of Pakistan, middle and high schools house primary classes.
Table 16: Physical Condition of Existing Government Schools, AJK, 1995
Total No. of Shelterless       Dangerous            Usable
Schools    Schools   %         Schools   %          Schools   %
Primary         4373      1101       25%        548      13%       2724      62%
Boys           2363       555       23%        384      16%       1424      60%
Girls          2010       546       27%        164       8%       1300      65%
Middle           855        25        3%        113      13%        717       84%
Boys            445        14        3%         67      15%        364      82%
Girls           410        11        3%         46      11%        353      86%
Total           5228      1126       22%        661      13%       3441       66%
Source: Department of Education, AJK; EMIS 199495.



57                                               ANINEX I
Page 12 of 12
Table 17: Summary ratios, AJK, 1994-95
Enrollment Participation  Female as    Student/Teacher  Student/School   Student/Classroom
Rate           % of Enroll.   Ratio (a)          Ratio (b)          Ratio (c)
Primary         423061            94%                              36.95              60.39        56.27
Male          231851           101%             55%               33.46              59.92        55.37
Female        191210             87%            45%               42.29              60.95        57.35
Middle          116918            60%                              20.89
Male            74715            75%            64%               20.74
Female          42203            44%            36%              21.18         ----
High             40521            33%                              11.55        -----
Male            27621           45%            68%                11.96        -----
Female          12900            22%            32%              10.77         -----
Total           580500            76%            42%               28.24              102.4
Source: Department of Education, AJK; EMIS
(a) Govemment schools. Ratio is by level rather than location - student/teacher ratios are higher in
primary schools.
(b) Government schools. Ratio compares number of children physically located in primary schools to number of primary
schools. Number of children physically located in middle schools and high schools is unavailable.
(c) Government schools. Ratio compares number of children physically located in primary schools to number of primary
school classrooms. Similar information is not available at middle and higher levels.



58
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 8
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Financial Evaluation
A. Government Expenditures in Education
1.         Government spending on education has been extremely low in the Northern Areas (NA)
and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK). Low historical spending in the NA has resulted in low literacy
levels, poor education assets and low student completion and achievement. The strength of the
teaching force has declined during the past decade. The overall quality of education is low by any
standard, and both physical and human resources are thinly spread.
2.         A comparison of the education expenditures in AJK with those of other provinces in
Pakistan, reveals that the situation in AJK contrasts sharply with the greater focus attached to primary
and middle school education in the provinces. While AJK's share of elementary education in
education expenditures is about 37 percent, Sindh and NWFP are spending about 52 percent and 48
percent (1992-93) respectively in the primary sector alone. Punjab and Balochistan are earmarking an
even higher proportion (about 56 percent of the education sector resources) to the primary level.
Despite the fact that AJK has a more mature educational system with a higher percentage of children
at the more expensive secondary level, allocations at the elementary level still appear low. According
to the 1994-95 AJK EMIS figures, 93 percent of the children are in elementary schools, yet this level
receives only 37 percent of the education expenditures.
3.         The education sector expenditures in NA and AJK represent a small part of the total
Federal (GOP) expenditures--only about one percent in 1995-96. Both areas, however, rely very
heavily on GOP transfers for financing their expenditures. All funding for the NA--both development
and non-development, is allocated through the KANA/SAFRON Ministry. The AJK government
internally generated resources cover only 35 percent of its overall expenditures while GOP finances
the other 65 percent. In 1995-96, allocations to education amounted to about 20 and 24 percent of
total public sector allocations in NA and AJK respectively (development and non-development) (Table
1).



59
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 8
Table 1. Total and Education Budgets in NA and AJK
(Rs. million)
1991-92    1992-93     1993-94     1994-95    1995-96
(R.E.)     (B.E.)
NORTHERN AREAS
Education Expenditures               177         198          256       308        315
Total NA Expenditures               1,057       1,245       1,254      1,486      1,560
% Education/Total                     17          16          20         21         20
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR
Education Expenditures              1,019       1,111       1,197      1,352     1,432
Total AJK Expenditures              4,010      4,545        4,597      5,675     5,921
% of Education/Total                  25          24           26        24         24
1" Total and Education Expenditures include development and non-development (recurrent) categories.
Source: Budget documents, ADP (various years) and mission estimates.
B. Development Expenditures
4.         During the past five years, Education Development Expenditures have increased in the
NA. Education Development Expenditures as a share of the NA Development Expenditures (ADP)
has fluctuated from 7.6 percent in 1992-93 to above 17.0 percent in 1994-95. The average share for
the period was 12.5 percent. While Development Expenditures grew at an annual average rate of
about 8.0 percent during 1991-92 to 1995-96, Education Development Expenditures increased at the
higher average annual rate of 20.5 percent. The share of Elementary Education Development
Expenditures in the Education Sector Development Expenditures rose from 45.8 percent in 1991-92 to
79.0 percent over the 1994-95 and 1995-96 years. The Elementary Education Development
Expenditures average annual growth rate of almost 50.0 percent for the five-year period, reflects the
increased SAP allocations to the sector (Table 2). These funds however, represent extremely small
and insufficient amounts when compared with the sector's acute needs.
5.         In AJK, Education Development Expenditures have declined in the recent past.
Education Development Expenditures as a share of Development Expenditures (ADP) averaged 14.0
percent in 1991-92 and are estimated at 8.4 percent in 1995-96 (Table 2). In fact, while Development



60
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 8
Expenditures grew at an annual average of 18.2 percent during 1991-92 to 1995-96, Education
Development Expenditures increased at an average annual rate of only about 2.7 percent. The share
of Elementary Education Development Expenditures in the Education Development Expenditures,
however, rose from about 52.0 percent in 1991-92 to 62.3 percent in 1995 (fable 2). This is partly
due to expenditures financed under the recently completed OPEC project and the ongoing Flood
Restoration project.
Table 2. Education Development Expenditures
(Rs. million)
1991-92    1992-93    1993-94   1994-95    1995-96    Average"
(R.E.)    (B.E.)    Rates(%)
NORTHERN AREAS
Total Dev. Expenditure           580        742        593        653        743        7.9
Education Dev. Expenditure        55         56         80        112        110       20.5
Elementary Dev. Expenditure        25        23         59         91         87       49.9
Education/Total (%)               9.5        7.6      13.5       17.2       14.7       12.5
Elementary/Education (%)         45.8       40.5      74.1       81.6       79.0       64.2
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR
Total Dev. Expenditure            906       904       1,075     1,620      1,675       18.2
Education Dev. Expenditure        127       125        124        127        141        2.7
Elementary Dev. Expenditure       66         64         62         72         88        8.1
Education/Total (%)              14.0       13.8       11.5       7.8        8.4       11.1
Elementary/Education (%)         51.8       51.3      49.9       57.1       62.3       59.5
" Average rates indicate either average growth rates or average shares during the period.
Source: ADP documents, SAP Operational Plans, Department of Education (AJK), Directorate of
Education in NA and mission estimates.



61
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
C. Recurrent (Non-Development) Expenditures
6.           Recurrent spending on the elementary level is lagging behind the other subsectors in
both regions. Elementary Non-development Expenditures increased at an average annual rate of 14.2
percent in the NA, while Secondary (and College) Non-Development Expenditures grew at an annual
average rate of 16.7 percent. The share of elementary non-development expenditures averaged about
64.0 percent of the education sector non-development expenditures (Table 3). Despite the growth of
recurrent expenditures in the education sector in AJK, averaging 9.7 percent per year between 1991-
92 and 1995-96, spending on the elementary education level has also lagged behind secondary and
higher levels. Elementary Non-Development Expenditures increased at an average rate of 8.6
percent, while College Non-Development Expenditures grew at an average annual rate of 14.1
percent. The share of Elementary Non-Development Expenditures in the Education Non-
Development Expenditures declined from about 36.0 percent in 1991-92 to 34.7 percent in 1995-96
(Table 3). During the same period, the share of Secondary Non-Development Expenditures
increased.
Table 3. Education Recurrent (Non-Development) Expenditures
(Rs. million)
1991-92    1992-93     1993-94   1994-95     1995-96     Average"
(R.E.)     (B.E.)     Rates(%)
NORTHERN AREAS
Non-Dev. Education Expenditures     122       142          176         196         206        14.3
of which Elementary                  81        92          117         114         135        14.2
Secondary2                   38         47          56          78          65         16.7
Administration                3          3           4           4           5         14.7
Elementary/Education(%)            66.7       64.9        66.3        58.2        65.8        64.4
Secondary/Education(%)             30.9       32.9        31.5        39.6        31.7        33.3
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR
Non-Dev. Education Expenditures     892       986        1,073       1,226       1,292         9.7
of which Elementary                 322       365          400         436         448         8.6
Secondary                   377        416          444        524         552         10.1
College                      108       125          136        163         183         14.1
Other                        85         80          93          103        109          6.7
Elementary/Education(%)            36.1       37.0        37.3        35.6        34.7        36.1
SecondarylEducation(%)             42.2       42.2        41.4        42.8        42.7        42.3
" Average rates indicate either average growth rates or average shares during the period.
a Includes Colleges.
Source: Budgets (various years), SLP, EMIS and mission estimates).



62
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 8
7.         One of the most critical problems in the education recurrent expenditures is the dominance of
the salary component. In AJK there are virtually no budgetary provisions for non-salary inputs, such as
repairs, maintenance, instructional materials, and so on. Recently, a provision of equipment (furniture, sports
goods) amounting to Rs.35 million for 4,119 primary schools was included in the ADP. One of the reasons
for the high proportion of dangerous schools is the combined effect of poor quality of construction and the
inadequate allocation of funds for maintenance and repairs. In the NA, non-salary inputs in the elementary
education non-development expenditures have increased--they represented an average 4.5 percent of
elementary expenditures over the past five years; non-salary inputs totalled approximately 12.0 percent of the
elementary non-development allocations in 1995-96. This level of non-salary allocations needs to be
sustained.
8.         When compared with other provinces, per-student government recurrent spending at the
elementary level is very low, especially in AJK. Figures for 1992-93 show AJK with the lowest government
per-student recurrent expenditure in Pakistan (Rs.970) compared to Sindh (Rs. 1,314) and Balochistan
(Rs. 1,528). Per-student recurrent spending in the NA was about Rs. 1,277 per elementary student (equivalent
to about US$ 4 per month per student) and Rs. 10,316 per secondary student (equivalent to US$35 per month
per student in 1994-95 (Table 4). Low per-student recurrent spending is due for the most part to the lack of
non-salary government spending on maintenance, learning materials for students and teachers and other
educational inputs.
Table 4: Per Student Recurrent Costs in Elementary Education
(Rs.)
Province/Area          1991-92          1992-93              1994-95
Punjab                 1,320             1,388                  NA
Sindh                  1,173             1,314                  NA
NWFP                     953             1,044                  NA
Balochistan            1,309             1,528                  NA
AJK                      905              970                 1,070
NA                       961             1,059                1,227
Source: Mission Estimates.



63
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 8
D. Financial Impact of the Project
9.         If the governments' current policy of focusing on improving the access and quality of
elementary education is to be implemented, the level of educational expenditures that would be needed
in the next few years will be significant. In the NA, a large proportion of the needed expenditures at
the elementary level, to be financed under the Northern Education Project (NEP), represent
investments in access and quality improvements which will have important pay-offs in the medium
and longer term, and without which the educational system will remain stagnant and call for much
larger investments in later years. Increased allocations to elementary education in AJK are also
necessary to make up for the low quality and the deficits in education "stocks"; low levels of spending
and continued focus on the expansion of education coverage have resulted in low student achievement
and poor education assets, such as inadequately trained teachers, dangerous and poorly maintained
facilities and lack of school equipment. Increased government financing allocated to interventions to
improve quality and equitable access, must be done in conjunction with efficiency improvements.
Efficiency will be increased by improving the utilization of existing resources through gradual
reductions in unproductive spending, and by increasing linkages with the community.'
10.        The share of education in the total ADP will need to increase over the next five years.
If the share of education development expenditures were kept at the current average of about 13
percent in the NA and 11 in AJK (Table 2), the program of improvements in the elementary level
would not be financially possible. The share of education in the ADP will need to be maintained at
an annual average of about 17 percent and 11 percent of the total ADP in the NA and AJK
respectively. This means that the education development allocations will need to rise at an average
annual rate of about 18 p2ercent and 17 percent in the NA and AJK respectively over the proiect
period (Table 5).
11.        The declining trend in the recurrent (non-development) spending at the elementary
education level needs to be reversed. In the NA, the elementary education non-development
allocations will need to increase at an average of 11 percent in real terms. Non-salary allocations
1 Efficiency efforts supported by the project include the application of merit-based criteria for
teacher hiring, gradually eliminating the practice of government financing of pre-service teacher
training for employed government teachers, and redeployment of staff to meet current classroom
needs or to strengthen quality inputs.



PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 5: Education Budgets Over Life of NEP Project"
(Constant Rs. million)
1996-97  1997-98   1998-99  1999-00  2000-01 2001-02 Five-Year Avg. Year
(Base Year)                                           Total    % Increase
NORTHERN AREAS
4-t~
Education ADP                             150.5    220.0    247.3    257.9    344.9    323.0   1,393.1        17.9
of which Elementary                      77.9    144.3     146.4    163.5    218.5    204.7      877.4      25.1
Education Non-Development                 240.9    263.3    293.0    324.9    359.3    398.9   1,639.5        10.6
of which Elementary                     156.5    171.1     190.5    211.2-   233.5    259.3   1,065.6       10.6
of which non-salary                    18.8    20.5       22.9      25.3     28.0     31.1      127.8     10.6
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
Education ADP                             141.4    195.2    255.3    323.3    301.5    282.4   1,357.7        16.5
of which Elementary                       88.1    121.7    159.0    201.4    187.8    175.9    845.8        16.5
Education Non-Development               1,414.3  1,511.6   1,651.7   1,827.8  1,985.5  2,166.7   9,143.2       8.9
of which Elementary                      509.2    574.4    660.7    731.1    794.2    866.7   3,627.1       11.2
of which non-salary                     25.5     34.5      46.2     58.5      71.5     86.7    297.4      27.9
Includes on-going schemes, NEP project and enhanced non-salary allocations to the elementary subsector.
00



65
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 8
will need to be maintained at the 1995-96 level of 12.0 percent of the elementary education
allocations. In AJK, elementary education non-development allocations will need to increase faster
than for the sector as a whole, 11 percent versus 9 percent in order to make up for the recent
declines. Non-salary allocations, practically non-existent at present, will need to grow at an average
of about 28 percent (Table 5).
12.        The increases in the AJK and NA education budgets are proportionally large when
compared with the very low current allocations, but very modest in absolute terms. These are
marginal increases within the context of the total federal budget and would be financially viable. The
education sector development expenditures in NA and AJK represent a very small part of the total
Federal development expenditures--only about one quarter of one percent in 1995-96. The projected
education sector allocations (inclusive of the NEP project) required during 1996-97 to 2001-02 would
increase the above mentioned share to less than one half of one percent. Therefore, the increases
planned for the NA and AJK education sector budgets as a part of the overall budget are extremely
sm=all and well within the capacity of the Federal government.
13.        The NA Directorate of Education and the Department of Education of AJK have
provided policy statements (Annexes 4 and 5) which include, in the governments' own words, many
key reforms and commitments to increased quality and efficiency, equitable access, strengthened
planning and supervision activities and support to the participation of communities in education. Most
of these reforms are supported by the NEP and would only materialize if supported by increased
allocations to the education sector in general, and the elementary subsector in particular. The
government commitment to the provision of the additional budgetary resources above (which include
the resources being financed by IDA) will be confirmed at IDA-Government negotiations.
14.        With regard to the sustainability of project investments beyond the life of the project, the
level of recurrent resources required to sustain quality-improvement, institutional development, and
infrastructure investments is likely to be low. Increased involvement of communities in the
construction and/or maintenance of school buildings is expected to generate additional resources,
improve the communities' sense of ownership of an responsibility for school property, and preserve
investments over a longer time period through improved and more regular maintenance routines. The
heaviest potential burden on future NA education budgets may be the need for continued support to
community schools. Although it is the intent of the DOE to experiment with mechanisms to make
community schools virtually self-sustaining, this may not be a realistic goal, particularly in the
poorest communities. Nevertheless, even if the DOE were to have to assume the full cost of
additional financial support to a maximum of 800 schools receiving support under the project in the
form of a per-student subsidy, the yearly costs is estimated to be approximately four percent of the
total program budget in the final year of the program, or six percent of the recurrent (non-
development) resources during the same year. This level of effort is considered financially
manageable, and a relatively light burden given that community school enrollments are projected to
make up approximately 23 percent of total enrollments by the final year of the program. SAP/SAPP
policy and financial support (particularly with regard to recurrent budgets and non-salary spending)
are also expected to enhance project sustainability.



66
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 9
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Community Participation and NGOs in the Northern Areas and Azad Jammu and Kashmir
I. Northern Areas
1.         Background. There are four main factors that influence the environment for community
participation in education in the Northern Areas. First, given their extreme isolation, rural
communities in the NA have developed a strong tradition of self-reliance. Second, government
services are limited, understaffed, and chronically underfunded, which has meant both that
communities have had to rely more upon themselves and that the government has had to find creative
and non-traditional ways to accomplish specific objectives. Third, community demand for education
is high; and fourth, there is a strong NGO presence in the form of the Aga Khan Development
Network (AKDN).
2.         The AKDN consists of four associated organizations, all of which receive some form of
support through the Aga Khan Foundation (AKF). The oldest of these is the Aga Khan Educational
Service (AKESP), which runs 126 schools in the Gilgit and Ghizer districts. Originally, these schools
were established as girls' schools in Ismaili communities. In more recent years, AKESP schools have
begun accepting boys at the primary level, as well as non-Ismaili children. AKESP schools charge
tuition and are generally considered to offer better quality education than government schools.'
These schools have had a strong effect on increased demand for education in general and girls'
education in particular in the NA, although AKESP has not opened schools out of the heavily Ismaili
districts of Gilgit and Ghizer. In terms of current organizational directions, AKESP is interested in
expanding its technical and training functions, but is not interested in assuming the burden of
financing or day-to-day management of additional schools.
3.         Other AKDN organizations include the Aga Khan Health Services, which runs clinics in
the Gilgit and Ghizer districts; the Aga Khan Housing Board (AKHBP), which for 12 years has run a
self-help school construction program in cooperation with local communities in the Gilgit and Ghizer
districts; and the Aga Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP), which has a 15 year history of
mobilizing local communities and forming village organizations (VOs) to undertake self-help projects,
including agriculture, water and sanitation, and microenterprise schemes. Unlike the other AKDN
organizations, AKRSP has worked in all five of the NA districts.
4.         Government-AKDN cooperation in the education sector has taken a number of different
forms. The Directorate of Education (DOE) and AKESP jointly established a Field Based Teacher
Development Program in the early 1980s, which has been offering locally based training to both
AKESP and government teachers since that time. The Government and AKESP have also informally
collaborated on school location decisions, with the Government essentially relying on AKESP to cover
I Tuition fees charged by AKESP schools are far lower than those charged by other "private" institutions, and
are heavily subsidized. Full and partial remission of fees is also available in AKESP schools for low-income
children.



67
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
a large percentage of girls' enrollment in the two districts where the organization operates. More
recently, the Government and AKRSP collaborated in designing the community schools model under
the SAP program.
5.         Besides the AKDN, there are a number of smaller NGOs and "welfare organizations"
active in the NA. A group known as Nonhuhal has started a number of schools in the Nagar region,
and the Jaber Bin Hayyan Trust runs another nine schools, the majority in Baltistan (Skardu). In
some of the wealthier communities (particularly those along the Karakoram Highway), groups of
parents and/or private entrepreneurs have set up their own schools on a fee-paying basis. The vast
majority of these are "English-medium" schools, in response to increased community pressure for
English rather than Urdu as the language of instruction.
6.         The Community Schools Program. In 1993, the federal government announced the
beginning of the Social Action Program, or SAP, which was designed to support basic health, water
supply, and primary education throughout the country. The actual design of interventions and
activities was left to the determination of each province or area, although SAP did carry a mandate
for increased collaboration with local communities and NGOs. The NA are one of the places in
Pakistan where this mandate was taken most seriously. As of 1994, the DOE was faced with a
situation in which no additional teacher posts had been authorized for the region since 1986, seriously
curtailing the ability to open new schools or even adequately staff the existing ones. AKESP had
expanded enrollments in existing schools, but was financially unable to open new ones. AKRSP,
meanwhile, with its close ties to the village organizations, was sensitive to a growing unmet demand
for education. The result was a joint AKRSP-Government proposal to use the SAP monies to
establish "community schools" in partnership with village organizations.
7.         Under the program, the government advertised the availability of funds to help
communities willing to start their own school. Once communities had expressed interest in response
to the advertisement, a series of dialogues were conducted with potential communities regarding
program guidelines and mutual responsibilities. The dialogue process is a technique developed by
AKRSP, and AKRSP local social organizers were frequently involved in accompanying the dialogue
process. Basic criteria for eligibility included the following: (a) all schools to be established were to
be either coeducational primary schools, or girls' schools; (b) schools would established only where
either: (i) no school currently existed; (ii) only a boys' school existed and parents were unwilling to
send their girls there; or parents were unable to send their children to a local school due to
geographical, political or sectarian constraints; or (iii) a school was available but did not satisfy
demand; (c) communities would have to provide a building for classes to take place; and (d) the
community would have to hire a teacher who met DOE criteria. DOE criteria for hiring teachers
included the stipulation that a female teacher must be hired over a male unless there is no female
meeting minimum academic criteria, which in the case of females was reduced to a grade 8 pass
(matric for males). For its-part, the DOE undertook to: (a) deposit a "grant" of Rs. 100,000 in an
interest bearing account in the name of the community, the interest from which (about Rs. 1,400 per
month) would help pay the salary of the teacher; (b) provide initial training for the teacher; and (c)
provide academic supervision. These agreements and responsibilities were incorporated into a Terms
of Partnership which were signed by community representatives and the DOE.
8.         The dynamism of the government-NGO-community partnership under the SAP program
is evident from the results thus far. Over approximately a ten month period (between January and



68
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
October, 1995), 250 community schools were. opened -- a 55 percent increase in the number of
primary schools under some form of government auspices in the NA. Pressure from communities to
expand the program has been intense and depending in part on funding, an additional 125-250 schools
are slated to be opened before January 1997. As of project appraisal (March, 1996), enrollment in
the first 250 schools had reached 12,088 students, or approximately 16 percent of primary
enrollments in the regular government system.2 Of these new enrollments, almost 61 percent are
girls, and just under half of the teachers are female (compared with 14 percent female teachers in the
regular government system). Based on the positive experience with the community schools program
thus far, the DOE has made community participation a cornerstone of its educational priorities and
strategies for the future.
9.         Despite the substantial achievements of the program, both the current design of the
program and its fast pace of expansion raised a number of concerns and issues during the course of
NEP preparation. These include: (a) the financial sustainability of the initial grant given inflation;
(b) the inflexibility of the grant mechanism to shifts in enrollment; (c) the need to establish minimum
enrollment criteria; (d) the need to tighten site selection criteria, based on an objective information
source; (e) quality concerns, including teacher recruitment criteria, training and managerial support to
school committees; (f) clarification of the definition of "community school" in terms of management
and fee structures; and (g) further developing a long-term strategy with regard to government
responsibilities to community schools, eligibility for upgrading to middle school status, and so forth.
In response to these concerns, a team of different area specialists were jointly commissioned by the
DOE, the Multi-Donor Support Unit for SAP, and IDA prior to appraisal to conduct a review of the
program thus far and make recommendations for alterations to the program as appropriate. The
review found that by and large program criteria had been applied as originally stated, verified that the
program enjoys a high level of commitment on the part of parents, teachers, and DOE officials, and
made recommendations on a number of issues based on their findings. Recommendations from the
review were built into the final proposals for project policy directions and activities, as well as
revised program criteria (see below).3 Further adaptations are expected to take place in response to
further experimentation and ongoing monitoring and evaluation during the project period.
10.        Revised Program Criteria for Establishment of Community Schools. The review
team recommended that the original program eligibility criteria be maintained, with the exception of
the consideration previously given to sectarian and political barriers. Priority criteria for awarding a
community school would be:
(a)   villages with no school;
b)   villages with a boys' school but with barriers to co-education; or (b) school available but
inaccessible due to geographic barriers; and
2 Comparison is based on numbers available from DOE on primary enrollments in regular government schools
as of November, 1995.
3 See Azfar, Fasihuddin and Wheeler: "A Review of the Northern Areas Community School Programme under
SAP." March 22, 1996.



69
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 9
(c)  school available but does not satisfy demand (overcrowding).
11.        The review team further recommended that some additional information be gathered and
criteria be applied within each of these previously defined priorities. Additional information to be
considered in determining the long-term sustainability of the school as well as whether the above
criteria apply include:
(a)   data on the number of children, including those of school age, boys and girls in the
village, using the union council definition of a village;
(b)   data on the number of and distance to existing Government primary schools for boys and
girls, including community schools in the area.
12.        These data will be readily available once a school mapping exercise is complete; in the
meantime, however, efforts should be made to collect these data from existing sources (AKRSP,
District DOE offices) and use them in weighing applications. Recommendations for additional criteria
include:
(a)   Establishment of a minimum enrollment level of 20 students if initial enrollment is
limited to the first three grades; 30 if school serves all five grades;
(b)   Limiting initial enrollment to grades LA, 1, and 2 for the first year of operation of the
community school. This would help ease the immediate burden of multiple classes on
space, teacher capacity, and DOE financial capacity to provide a second teacher.
(c)   Limiting total enrollment to a 40 student to one teacher ratio, unless the DOE is able to
increase funding to provide for additional teacher(s) on a graduated scale, or the existing
teacher agrees to operate on a double-shift system;
(d)   Setting guidelines for the provision of a space for classes to be held, with the minimum
acceptable being (14'x 24') in one or two rooms, to accommodate a maximum of 40
students.
(e)   Community agreement to manage the school in accordance with the Terms of
Partnership in writing. Part of this agreement would include the selection of a female
teacher, where a matric pass female is available and is likely to stay in the village
(already being applied).
13.        In cases where there are more qualified applications than can be funded, preference
would be given to districts with historically lower female participation rates. It should also be clear
to communities from the outset of discussions regarding possible DOE support for a community
school that the establishment of a school does not necessarily entail a guarantee of a school building.
The criteria for allocation of school buildings to community schools would be separate, and would
include information gained through a school mapping process to take place under the NEP.



70
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 9
14.        These recommended changes to the program as it currently stands were discussed with
the government, the review team, and IDA, and were broadly agreed among the parties.
15.        Support for Community Participation under the Northern Education Project.
Because community participation is so central to the overall DOE strategy for education, all proposed
components of the NEP support increased community participation in some form. Under the access
component, for example, it is proposed that all construction activities under the project incorporate
community participation. This strategy is expected to increase community commitment to maintaining
the newly constructed or reconstructed buildings, and is estimated to lower the total construction costs
by approximately 30 percent. In order to institutionalize efforts at encouraging community
participation thus far, the project is also supporting the re-designation of a Deputy Director post
within the DOE as Deputy Director for SAP and Community Mobilization. With regard to support
for existing and future community schools, the NEP would provide support in a number of forms,
including:
(a)   Training for community school teachers. In accordance with the program agreed
between the government and IDA, community school teachers would receive training
through the Field Based Teacher Development program along with regular government
teachers;
(b)   Self-help construction support for eligible community schools. Proposed criteria for
eligibility for building support are included in the community schools review, and
include: (i) justification for building based on school-age population, distance to nearby
schools, and enrollment levels, as defined through a school mapping exercise; (ii)
demonstrated ability of the community to run a school during a two year period,
ensuring minimum enrollment and continuity of the teacher; and (iii) willingness of the
community to enter into cost-sharing arrangements under the program. Approximately
450 community schools would receive permanent school buildings under the project;
(c)   Additional financial support to community schools. The project would include funds to
support community schools equal to approximately double the current grant amount or
an estimated per-student subsidy of approximately Rs. 60 per month, based on
assumptions regarding average enrollment and the rate of growth of community schools
(up to a maximum of 800). Financial support would take the form of yearly grants to
eligible schools. Eligibility criteria, grant amounts and funding mechanisms would be
agreed on a yearly basis with IDA as part of the Annual Plan. Grant amounts would
reflect differences in enrollment between schools, and could be used for, inter alia,
payment of teacher salaries, purchase of school supplies, and building rental and/or
maintenance. Separate funds have also been budgeted for ongoing maintenance of
buildings constructed or reconstructed under the project;
(d)   Social organization/mobilization training for Directorate of Education staff. Field-based
Assistant District Education Officers (AEOs) in particular would receive regular training
to enable them to work more effectively with village education and school management
committees, as well as with Parent-teacher associations (PTAs) in regular government
schools. Training content would include introduction to materials to be used in training
VECs and PTAs in basic school management techniques, including record keeping,



71
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 9
monitoring and following up on student and teacher attendance, and handling of
accounts;
(e)   Launching of a Community School Development Project (CSDP) as agreed by the DOE
and AKESP. This pilot project will test different inputs, management structures, and
financing mechanisms in a small sample of community schools (10) as a means of
identifying alternative approaches to working with/supporting community schools.
These lessons would then be incorporated into the ongoing community school program.
(f)   Study tours and technical assistance. Although the NA are experimenting with the
establishment of community schools on a much wider scale than many provinces, there
are other experiences with community schools in Pakistan which might prove useful in
the further development of the community schools program. The project would support
three brief study tours to look at such models, as well as technical assistance from within
Pakistan and abroad to help in the development of the community schools program.
16.       Increasing Community Participation in Existing Government Schools. Encouraged
by the response to the community schools program, the DOE has also sought ways to encourage more
community involvement in existing government schools. A notification regarding the formation of
parent-teachers committees was recently issued, although further details regarding the membership
and responsibilities of these committees require further definition. The NEP would support
government efforts in this area through: (a) provision of technical assistance to help further define the
roles and responsibilities of parent-teacher committees; (b) social mobilization training for DOE staff
(which would be relevant both for work with community schools and for efforts to enhance
community participation in existing schools); and (c) development of a training package for teachers
and parents starting PTA committees. The project would also support increased community
participation through the construction component. All repair and rehabilitation to existing school
buildings would be done through a participatory model, and funds for building maintenance would be
gradually decentralized to PTAs.
17.        Role of NGOs. For the most part, the role of NGOs in the project would be one of
providing technical assistance and training, although NGOs directly involved in the provision of
educational services may qualify for support under the community schools program under revised
criteria. Both AKRSP and AKESP would be considered an integral part of the program, and would
participate in the Project Steering Committee. In addition, AKRSP would: (a) provide support in the
identification of communities eligible for receiving community school funding, increase awareness
among communities regarding program criteria; and to extent possible support the dialogue process
leading up to the signed Terms of Partnership between the Government and the community; (b)
provide social mobilization training for DOE staff; (c) in collaboration with the DOE (and AKESP),
develop training materials to be used with VECs, school management committees, and PTAs, and
train of Directorate of Education staff in their use; (d) to extent possible, provide technical support to
the DOE in training of VECs, school committees and PTAs. AKESP would: (a) help with the
expansion of field-based teacher training efforts through opening of additional government FBTD
centers, thus giving the government additional time to expand its own capacity; and (b) participate in
a pilot project to develop the community schools program through experimentation with different
management and financial mechanisms in a small sample of schools. Both organizations would also
participate in the ongoing monitoring of the NEP through regular contact with Directorate of



72
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of .9
Education staff at different levels; also playing a role (in conjunction with DOE staff) in annual
reviews/field assessment of project implementation progress.
II. Azad Jammu and Kashmir
18.        Background. As in the NA, AJK has a strong tradition of rural communities
contributing labor and other resources to accomplish specific goals. The local government department
has long relied on community contributions of labor for water and sanitation projects, and to some
extent in the financing and construction of school buildings. Unlike the NA, however, AJK does not
have a history of NGO involvement as intermediaries in such schemes, nor does it have a base of
community or village organizations comparable to that developed by AKRSP in the context of the
NA, with the exception of a number of village-based organizations in the district of Poonch, started
under the auspices of the National Rural Support Program (NRSP). Several ongoing projects (the
Northern Resource Management Project, and the Neelum and Jhelum Valley Community Project)
have incorporated community organizing components, but a recent review of these projects found the
community development components at a very preliminary stage.4
19.        NRSP started up operations in the AJK district of Poonch in 1993. Nationally, NRSP's
objective is to foster a country-wide network of grassroots organizations which enable local
communities to plan and undertake their own development. A cornerstone of NRSP's strategy is to
collaborate with other agencies to utilize existing material and human resources. These agencies
include government departments, NGOs, international agencies, and credit institutions. Thus far
NRSP has formed 138 village organizations in the district of Poonch, but there are as yet no plans to
expand to other districts.' In addition to NRSP, AJK also has a number of welfare organizations,
which are mostly volunteer based and focus on a variety of social issues, from after-school programs
for youth to health care and adult literacy projects.
20.        The results of a limited beneficiary assessment exercise conducted in AJK during project
preparation revealed that there is significant community support for education.' Most parents
consider education to be important, and the vast majority send their children to primary schools where
available (this is true for both boys and girls). Distance to education (sometimes even very short
distances) is still perceived as a barrier to education, particularly for younger children. While parents
do contribute energy, time, and financial resources to their children's schooling, the assessment
confirmed that this is mostly done on an individual or ad-hoc basis. Parent involvement in and
contributions to schooling are higher in communities with an activist head-teacher or community
member; in most schools sampled, however, there was no formal or established mechanisms for
parental input into school issues beyond payment of the nominal school fees requested by the teacher.
4 See 'Community Participation in the Health Sector in Azad Jamnmu and Kashmir," Development and
Research Consultants, Pvt. for the World Bank, July 1995.
5 Since the district of Poonch was officially divided in the fall of 1995, NRSP is now technically working in
two districts.
6 See Halcrow Consultants, Ltd. 'Working Paper on Community Participation in AJK - Northem Education
Project". March 1996.



73
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 9
Parents and community members interviewed clearly expressed interest in and concern about
improving the quality of education available to their children. There were differences of opinion,
however, regarding who should be responsible for quality improvements (government or
communities), and the quality of contact/dialogue between the government and communities has
varied. Many parents cited the need for improvements to the physical aspects of the school. Some
also cited other problems, including non-availability of certain teaching specialties, political
appointments of teachers, corruption in local government departments handling building construction
matters, and a general lack of consideration of local community needs and preferences. One parent
expressed the opinion that the government and community members should sit down and discuss ways
to improve the quality of education, but that "the govermnent doesn't listen to us."
21.        Formation of School Committees under the NEP. The basic strategy for increasing
community participation in AJK under the NEP would be through the formation of school committees
at the village level. This strategy is consistent with a longstanding proposal for the formation of
village education committees under the Social Action Program (SAP) which has yet to be put into
practice in AJK. As part of the SAP Operational Plan for 1995-96, AJK proposed the formation of
village-level school committees as a means to encourage community participation in education. As of
November, 1995, a summary proposal concerning the formation of school committees had been sent
to the Government for approval. Although this proposal is still vague with regard to the specific
responsibilities of these school committees and lacks an implementation strategy, it establishes the
policy basis for further development of a school committee strategy.
22.        It has been agreed that issuance of a notification is unlikely to be sufficient to ensure the
creation of active school committees. Social mobilization of communities and training for DOE field
staff, teachers, and school committee representatives would also be necessary inputs if the idea of
school committees is to take hold. Given the difficulty of providing this type of training and support
to over 5,000 elementary schools in AJK, it was agreed that it would make sense to pilot the idea
with a small sample of schools under the NEP.7
23.        Under the NEP pilot, the process of school committee formation would begin in a single
district (to be selected by the DPIEE) and would involve both the training of AEOs (and through
AEOs, teachers) in community mobilization techniques and the training of newly formed school
committees in their responsibilities. Technical assistance (preferably through a contracted NGO or
private company) in coordinating the community mobilization effort would be provided to the DOE in
the form of a project coordinator with a strong background in training and social mobilization
initiatives. The community mobilization coordinator would be expected to divide his/her time
between on-site training of AEOs and school committees in the pilot district, and wider education
efforts and reporting functions at the level of the DPIEE (for example, the arrangement of two study
tours for policy makers and DPIEE and district staff to look at community mobilization efforts
elsewhere in Pakistan). To the extent that there are already other social mobilization efforts underway
I In light of overall cuts to the project post-appraisal, the decision was made to restrict the pilot to a single
diArict, rather than begin school committee formation in three districts as proposed at appraisal. If the pilot is
judged to be sufficiently successful at the time of the Midterm Review, it is hope that SAP funding may be used
to support an expansion to other districts.



74
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 9
in the pilot district, the project coordinator and district-level AEOs would be responsible for
coordinating with existing efforts to the maximum extent possible.
24.        Under the proposed design, the formation of school committees in the pilot district
would at least initially be done in conjunction with the reconstruction of dangerous and building of
shelterless schools under the project. The reasons for making this connection are threefold: (a) first,
the fact of an investment in physical infrastructure is likely to mobilize the community around the
school and school issues; (b) second, an organized school committee can help oversee the construction
process (although not necessarily the most technical aspects); and (c) one of the functions of the
school committee would be the ongoing maintenance of the newly constructed school, thereby
preserving the initial value of the investment under the project. In view of the fact that the Civil
Engineering Cell within the Department of Education does not have experience with community
participation in construction, the project would not necessarily follow a participatory approach to the
construction itself. As has been the pattern in the past, however, communities would be asked to
donate the land for the construction of currently shelterless schools. Other school committee
responsibilities would include: fundraising and administration of government matching grants for
school building maintenance and purchase of learning materials; decision making regarding school-
related investments or improvements; regular monitoring of student and teacher attendance; and
sponsoring an annual community meeting to discuss educational issues and the progress of the
school.'
25.        Schedule and Activities.  Since school committee formation would be linked to
construction activities under the project, committee organization in the field would not begin until
after the completion of the school mapping exercise six months into project implementation. The first
six months of the component would be dedicated to start-up activities, and wider efforts to familiarize
DPIEE and district staff with community mobilization concepts.9 Implementation of the pilot in the
selected district would be undertaken during the first two and a half years of the project. Assuming a
fairly even distribution of school construction between the seven districts, a minimum of 50 school
committees can be expected to be functioning in the pilot district by the time of the Midterm Review
of the project. A decision as to whether to continue the pilot in some form, expand it, or terminate it
would be made at that time.
26.        Role of NGOs. Given the relative lack of experience with community mobilization
techniques within the Secretariat of Education, technical assistance in this area will be an important
factor in the success of the proposed program. Either an NGO or a private firm with extensive
experience in community mobilization would be most appropriate for such an assignment. Because
local AJK experience would also be an asset, such an arrangement might be considered with NRSP in
Poonch, for example. The NGO contracted would be responsible for providing: (a) a component
coordinator, to work at the level of the DPIEE as well as in the field in the pilot district; and (b)
specialized short-term technical assistance if needed (for the design of training materials, for
example).
Additional suggestions for specific school committee responsibilities, membership, -and tenure were made
during appraisal, and can be found in the final version of the appraisal mission aide-memoire (May 1, 1996).
9 These are further detailed in the aide-memoire of the project appraisal mission (May 1, 1996.)



75
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
DIRE CTORATE OF EDUCATION N.As
GILGIT.
NORTIIERN AREAS
PRIORITIES AND STRATEGIES
IN ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
August 13, 1996



76
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
NORTIHIERN AREAS
PRIORITIES AND STRATEGIES
IN ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
SUMMARY-.
Today, more than ever, the people of tile Northlern Areas lhave expressed that education
is their greatest need. Thus, the edtucation priorities and strategies of (lie Northern Areas
reflect the Government's willingness to meet thc iteeds of its people, and to effectively
support clementary education throughout the region.
The socio-economic indicators in the Nortlern Areas are amongst the lowest in Pakistan.
The litcracy rate of 15 percent is dramatically lower than the nationial average of 35
-perent. Fcmalc literacy is a dismnal 3 percent compared to the male literacy rate of 24
percent. Within the Northern Areas, therc is extreme disparity from one district to
another and within districts. There ihave been no new or additional teaching posts
sanctioned for the Northcrn Areas sincec 1986. Access to quatity education has been low
due to the extreme remoteness of many valleys and villagcs. The Directoratc of Education
has clearly recognized these problems ancl is comminttidcl to addressing them with a
programmatic approach.
Tic priorities and strategies set forth lere provide the palh wlhich the Norihernr Areas will
take to mcct the needs of its people. The path is one which is consistenL with the faith
ideology and aspirations of this nation as a wholc. Il is a padt wh ich seeks to attain
universal enrollinent in eleme:ntary education for all school-agcdl children in the Northern
areas, particularly female, with increased community participation. In coijunction with
this objective, the Government has adopted thl following specific prioritics:-
I.   Improve the quality of edutcation in order to increasc learnini achievements and
completion rates in elementary cducation.
2.   Increase cquitable access in eccmenitary education.
3.   Strengthcn institutional capacity to plan, man.age, and supervise education
programs, and;
4.   Increase community participation awnd support to NGOs.



77
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
These priorities are reflected in a mu3ii-facted stratcgy which addresses each and every
concern in the provision of quality elementary education. Specifically, the strategies are
designed to focus activities on providing access for femnales to clemlentary education,
improving the skills and techniques of thc tcaching force, and strengthtning the
management capacities of the DoE to cffectively deliver clementary education.
Through well-planned and effective implementatiorn, education will be carried forward
tihroughout the Northern Areas, providing access to quality edtucation as never before
witnessed in the region. And with access to quality clementary education for the people
of the Northern Areas, the coming g,eneration of citizens will be ablc to avail themselves
of opportunitics as never bcfore. experiencied. Throutgh planning, investment and
conscience, tile people of the Nortleri Areas will increase tlhe level of tlieir contribution
to Pakistan as a nation, helping to pave thc way for a iunified and peaceful future.
Thefollowino sets forth each educational priorities and the corresponding strategies which
the Govcrnment will pursue in the imnmrediate futlre.
Priority I: Improvino the quslity of elententary educution in order to increase
learning .achieveinents and completioni rates in elementary ecitucation.
The qtuality of elementary cducation in tite Northenr Areas compares as among the lowest
in the whole of Pakistan. Years of limitcd resources have prodtuced a system burdened
with teaclhers wanting for proper training in tcaching metlhodologies and contlent
knowledgc. a curriculum whichl does not promnole lcarniing ancd achievcnent, and an
assessment system  which focuscs less on ability and knowlcdige and more on
memorization. There is a backlog of approximately two tlhousanjd untrained Government
teachers in the Northern Areas. As a result, ltie sttudcnts of the Northern Areas have
suffered in the face of students from otlher regions in  2aklistan. both at the elementary
level and at higher, more competitive levels of ediucation.
Strategies:
To imnprove the quality of clemnentary education in tihe Norifern Areas, the government
will puirsuc the following strategies:
I . Expansion of a field-based teacher training nmodcl whichi will dceliver necessary training
in modern teaching techniques to leachers working in remote reginns of the Northern
Areas.



78
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
2. Strengthening of the College of }d.ucation for women in Gilgit. and establishment of
a College of Education for womcII in Skardi, to offer greater opportunity for teacJiers
and educationist to pursue higher sludies in tile teaching rield.
3. Supporting distance education for feinalcs, particularly through the Allamna lqbal Open.
Univcrsity, so as to provide females with greater opportunities to pursue teaching
qualifications.
4. Adaptation of field-based teacher training conccpts and tcchniques into the syllabus of
the College of Education, is an effort Co improve the teaching technologies and
methodologies used in the classrooms. These concepts and technciqtues havc been proven
to bc the most useful and innovativc approach to education in the region, and have been
tried and tested for over Len years.
5. Improvement of thc curriculum to rcflect the needs of thie Northern Areas, including
multi grade learning approaches, gender-friendly texts, and local realities.
6. Improvcmcnt of the use of supplemenlary matcrials, audio-visual teaching aids, and
other devices to support classroom instzizctioii.
7. Inprovement of the assessment system to improve lihc rclcvance and efficacy of
examination processes. Thzis includes devoloping examinaiotis which truly tcst the skills
and abilities of students, and training tcachers ini examination procedures and techniques
of continucus assessment.
Priority 2: lncrcase equitable access in elementary edcicatioji.
Access to elementary education in the Northern Are;s is liimited bothl by geography and
capacity. Communities are disperscd so widrly that the costs of bluilding a school in eaci
area are prohiibitive. And in those areas where iltere are scihoois. enrollments exceed 39
students per classroom.
Strategics:
1. Commencemenlt of a school mapping exercise to accurately ascertain the needs of
education intervcntioins.
2. Strengthening of the community school initiativc slarted under the Social Action
Programme Primary Education Component, which provides funding for community-
managed schools in low-access arzas.
3. Initroduction of a co-education policy at the primary level in order to increase access
for girls at the primary level.



79ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
4. Repair and reconstnicdion of existing school facilities.
5. Construction of new classrooms oni a participatory, sclf-help basis in partnership with
communities throughout Ihe region.
6. Construction of two teacher training colleges for females, one in Skardu and one in
Gilgit, to increase the number of adequately traiined female teachers.
Priority 3: Strengthen institutional cap.tcity to plan, managc, and supervise education
programmes.
Currently, the administration and supervisioni for all goveniment educational institutions
from primary-to tertiary level, is the responsibility of the Directorate of Education. The
five district offices supervise at the district level. The central and district offices are
inadequately staffed and equipped and management is hiihly centralized, the instittitional
capacity-of the DoE to plan. manage, and supervisc edtucation programmes needs to be
strengthcned.
Strategies:
1. Strengthening the Directorate of Education, at ithe cOentral, district, and sub-district
level, through provision of additionall staff, coiliputir and commlunication equipment,
appropriate training, and increased recurrent bud-cl.
2. Dccentralisation of school supervision by increasing thc number of field officers and
providing them with additional role of supervision rather than inspection.
3. Increased female participation at the administrative and supervision level by allocating
posts to female officers.
4. Establishment of a Northern Areas E.dtcntion Ma,aacmen  Information System (EMIS)
to assist the DoE in better planning and management.
Priority 4: Increase community participation aid support to NGOs.
The community school initiative unider the Social Action Programme is a key to primary
education development in the Northern Areas wlhich will be expancied to provide greater
access to primary education. In addition to this programnc the DoE will work to
encourage communities to actively parlicipate in cdcca(ion at the local level. The
participatory niodel of eduLcation is further culhanced by the participation of community
based organizalions and NGOs. Several steps nieed to be taken in order to strengthen
community participation and support to NCGOs.



80
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
Strategies.
1. Increasing the amount of financial stipport to community schools.
2. Developing a strategy to providc permancnt school buildings to community schools.
3. Training community school teachers through ficid-based training programmes..
4. Social organization/mobilization training for DoE staff. In  particular, field-based DoE
officers will be provided training with the collaboration of NGOs.
- 5. Training of DoE staff in developing VillacEducation Committee (VEC) management
skills for community schools.
6. Initiating a Community School Development Project which will experiment with
-ifferent mechanisms to strengthen the current community school model.
7. Support to smaller NGOs and comnmunity-based organiriations to further develop these
organizations and their contribution to thc education sector in the Northcrn Areas.
8. Expand the role of non-govcriimental org-anisations (NGOs) in supporting educational
initiatives tiidertaken by tihe DoE and cby local communities. hI particular, coordination
committees as appropriate will be established to deveiop a coordlinated approach towards
the improvement of education.



81
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
Elementary Education
PRIORITIES AND
INVESTMENTS
Azad Jammu & Kashmir
Education Secretariat, Azad Jammu & Kashmir
Muzaffarabad
August, 1996



82
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
ELJEMENTARY E)UCATION
PRIO()RIT'I!ES ANI) INVESTMENTS
AZAD)J.AN1MU & KASHIMIR
Introduction
It is admitted fact that education is the basic element to bring change in a society in
respect of economic, social and cultural development. Education plays a vital role in
prosperity of a nation. Investment in education, as compared to other sectors, is
considered to be more productive and having multi-fold retums. That is why education is
given full attention in Azad Jammu and Kashmir. At present, AJ&K is leading other parts
of Pakistan in case of literacy rate which is 46%. The participation rate at elementary level
in AJ&K is higher than thal "f other areas of Pakistan. Fortunately, the goal of Universal
Primary Education is coming within reach and in the near future the target of UPE will be
achieved.
The rapid expansion in setting up educational institutions was initiated in the
Seventies, and as a result, presently each village of the area has got at least one primary
school for children of school going age. This state of affairs can be declared as a
revolution in the education system of AJ&K. Before independence (1947). the area now
comprising Azad Jammu & Kashmir was the most backward area having only one Inter
College, 6 High, 26 Middle and 250 primary schools. This sorrow situation has entirely
changed, and at present there are 4,373 Primary, 855 Middle, 439 High and 35 Higher
Secondary Schools. Besides these institutions there are 34 Inter Colleges, 29 Degree
Colleges, one University and one Board of Intermediate and Secondary E.ducation. As far
as teacher training is concerned there are IO Colleges of Education for Elementary
Teachers, one College of Education, one Agrotechnical Teachers' Training Centre, one
Education Extension Centre and Centre for Curriculum Development.
Educational reforms and comprehensive policy initiatives have been carried out
with the passage of time since 1947. The major objective set forth in policy documents
has been to increase the literacy rate and universalize primary education, which is essential
for a developing nation. The Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir has successfiil_X
tried to implement these policies and the results are encouraging in respect of UPE and
enrollment rates. But this is not an end in itself, several measures and initiatives are still
required to be undertaken for improvement and strengthening the expanded system of
education in AJ&K. Elementary education which is, today, considered to be the right of
every citizen, is enjoying top priority in the educational set-up of the state. In spite of
maximum efforts to uplift elementary education, further steps for improvement and
strengthening of the system still need to be carried out. For improving, strengthening and



83
-                     ~~~~~ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
future planning of elementary education, it is necessary to determine certain priorities and
to carry them out.
Priorities for Improvement of Elementary Education
(a) Improving the quality of elementary education.
(b) Increasing access and retention rate at elementary stage.
(c) Strengthening institutional capacity to plan, manage and supervise
elementary education.
(d) . Encouraging community and NGOs to participate in school programs.
-Improving the Quality of Education
AJ&K has made remarkable progress in providing educational access to its
children. As educational participation has expanded, it has become increasingly important
to focus on the quality of education provided by the schools. The fundamental meaning of
educational quality is that students master the knowledge and skills which they need to
become capable and productive members of society. In order for this to happen, all of the
human and material resources of the educational system must focus on the central activity
of education: the teaching and learning process that takes place in the classroom. The
Government of AJ&K, therefore, is dedicated to ensuring that the curriculum provided to
students is designed with leaming in mind; that teachers are trained in effective teaching
methods and educated in the content of subject areas; and that student learning is assessed
frequently and effectively. To ensure that these goals are reached the following section
identifies specific problems in the quality of education, and strategies for addressing them.
General Problems
The following problems seriously affect the quality of education with the result -
that learning achievement of students at primary level is lower than the national average.
-  At present 23% of male primary teachers and 15% of male middle school
teachers are untrained, compared to 50% of female primary and 33% of female
middle school teachers.
-  Teacher Training Colleges (GCETs) need to be strengthened in terms of
physical facilities and specialized teaching staff.
-  Inservice teachers require support in teaching new curriculum and multi-grade
teaching.
-  Single-teacher schools need additional teachers.



84
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
- Specialized institutions in curriculum development (CRDC) and Inservice
Training (EEC) require increased level of resources for technical and
management capacity building.
-  Instructional materials need to be developed and utilized by the teachers for
effective teaching.
-  Specialized institutions for training and curriculum need to coordinate their
activities.
-  Techniques to assess student achievement need to be improved.
Strategies
To reduce the percentage of untrained teachers, maximum use of training
opportunities available at Government Colleges for Elementary Teachers (GCETs) will be
ensured.
-  Inservice training courses in integrated curriculum and other subject areas will
be offered both for primary and middle school teachers.
-  Posts of teachers under training at GCETs will be reduced and shifted to
single-teacher schools.
-  Training packages, instructional materials and teacher guides will be developed
and distributed among the teachers.
- EEC and CRDC will be strengthened through the provision of additional staff.
equipment, technical assistance, and other resources.
-  Curricula for classes 4-8 with relevant supporting materials will be developed.
-  Training in textbook development and evaluation will be provided to
curriculum development staff
-  An Inservice Education Committee comprising personnel from the Directorate
of Elementary Education, GCETs, EEC and CRDC will be constituted to
establish effective coordination on training, curriculum development, and
examinations.
- Regional and international training and study tours will be provided to selected
people drawn from training colleges, CRDC and EEC.



85
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
The system of assessment and examinanans both for students and teachers
under training will be improved.
Posting and transfer of faculty members and the admission of students in
GCETs will be done with the consent of principals of these institutions.
Increasing Access and Retention Rate
Although participation in primary education is high, it is still the case in A1&K that
many children do not successfully complete the full primary school cycle, and even fewer
enter and complete the middle school level. Several factors constrain participation and
retention of students in elementary education. In many cases, the physical environment of
the schools is not conducive to good teachingflearning practices. The Govemment is
committed to providing better physical facilities to address this need. At the same time,
Government alone cannot meet the needs for improvement. Commtnity involvement is
necessary to strengthen Government's efforts. Community involvement can also
contribute to improved access and quality in other ways. When parents and community
leaders take an interest in the schools, teacher peiformance rises and parental support for
their children's education increases. Community involvement can directly enhance the
quality and relevance of education, as schoois incorporate the talents and knowledge of
community members into the school program. Thus, the Government of AJ&K is
committed to supporting theinvolvement of communities in the education of their
children.
General Problems
- About 28% of primary schools can be categorized as either dangerous or
shelterless. About 42% are in bad need of repairs.
-  Hardly any funds are available for basic repairs and maintenance of school
buildings.
-  Many schools do not have boundary walls and basic necessary amenities.
Strategies
-  To increase access and retention, new schools will be built, dangerous schools
will be reconstructed, and adequate facilities will be provided. In addition, a
school maintenance program will be established.
- A School Mapping exercise will be undertaken for assessing actual needs and
future planning.



86
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
-New schools will be established on the basis of needs, and where appropriate,
co-educational schools will be built to increase cost-effectiveness.
- Female teachers will be preferred in the posting of teachers to co-educational
schools.
- Communities will be encouraged to participate in the construction of school
facilities.
- School Committees will be established to assist school administration in
solving school problems, including maintenance.
Strengthening Management
All improvements in educational quality and access rest on the ability of the
educational system to use human and material resources wisely in the present and to plan
for future needs. Good infornation and rational systems of postings and transfers underlie
effective educational management. Thus, recently the Directorate of Education (Schools)
has been bifurcated into a Directorate of Elementary Education -and a Directorate of
Secondary Education to improve educational efficiency as a whole, and in particular, to
improve capacity at the elementary level, and to strengthen school supervision.
General Problems
- Duties of AEOs, DDEOs and DEOs need to be streamlined to enable them to
visit schools more regularly.
- Supervisory jobs need to be well-defined and focused on improving the quality
of education.
- Staff posted in supervisory positions require induction training.
- Regular inservice training system for supervisory staff need to be developed.
- Supervisors badly need transport facilities.
- EEC and CRDC need more expertise in several specialized areas.
- Educational Management Information System (EMIS) cannot cater to the
growing needs of the educational system due to inadequate staffing and lack of
equipment.



ANNEX 5
87                          Page 7 of 8
Strategies
- Additional positions of AEOs will be provided so that an AEO may supervise
50 primary schools at the maximum.
-  An AEO will visit each school at least 4-5 times a year, and will have to follow
the list of minimum activities to be carried out, with emphasis on providing
professional guidance.
-  Female AEO staff will be appointed in positions occupied by male AEOs by
encouraging and facilitating female SSTs.
-  Job description will be part of the appointment letter for supervisors.
-  A policy on posting and transfer of supervisors will be followed.
-  Selection criteria for AEOs, DDEOs and DEOs will include: (a) experience of
elementary education; (b) basic qualification; (c) tenure of the post, etc.
Ultimately, the aim will be to create a separate cadre.
-  Performance of supervisors will be enhanced by providing: (a) induction
training; (b) transport facilities; (c) adequate budget according to the nature of
the work; (c) inservice training for supervising and guiding the teachers.
-  Taking the bifuircation into Elementary and Secondary Education to logical
end, middle classes will be separated from High/Higher Secondary Schools.
-  The Directorate of Elementary Education will be strengthened by providing
necessary equipment and transport facilities.
-  EEC, CRDC and EMIS will be strengthened in terms of human resources an-d
physical facilities. Mobile Training Unit will be established in EEC.
Increasing Community and NGO Participation
The majority of the people feel and even express that the problems prevailing in
schools cannot be solved with limited resources provided by the Government. The
potential of sharing responsibilities of schooling is emerging among the people, which can
best be utilized for promoting community participation.
The idea of community participation in school affairs in AJ&K is not a new one.
During the past years people have involved in extending assistance in cash or kind for
establishing schools for their children. In certain areas where people are well-off, they



88                              ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 8
provide the school facilities themselves. They take part in school maintenance and repairs
of classrooms and furniture.
Communities in AJ&K are aware of the importance of education. This is why the
Government has responded to the demand of the people to establish schools and
consequently, at present, each village of the State has got primary school. In certain
villages people have established "Education Committees" in order to support and assist .
school management. Usually welfare workers and retired Government servants actively
take part in functioning of the Education Committees. The efforts from communities in
this respect need to be utilized in a structured manner.
Recently some NGOs and individuals have come forward in establishing schools in
the private sector. If NGOs and other interested people engaged in education are
encouraged and assisted, they can also contribute to quality education.
ffStraees:
To increase community participation, these measures will be taken.
- Widespread campaign will be launched to promote the concept of community
participation in educational programs.
School Committees will be constituted, and through legislation, their structure,
functions and responsibilities will be determined.
Training of the members of the committees and supervisory staff of education
department will be organized.
-  Education Councils at district level will be framed to monitor the activities of
School Committees.
-  With increased community interest in education, school facilities will be
constructed through participatory approach.
-  Greater involvement of private sector in education will be encouraged.
Education Secretariat
Azad Jammu & Kashmir



89
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 9
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
I. Approach
1.         Monitoring and evaluation activities under the Northern Education Project (NEP) will
derive from and be integrated into the regular functioning of the educational administrations in NA
and AJK. The monitoring and evaluation plan comprises four modalities: (1) systemic monitoring by
education management staff; (2) special studies and reviews undertaken within project components;
(3) Mid-term review and final reviews; and (4) a baseline and end-of-project sample-based survey of
student achievement. Monitoring will primarily serve management functions while evaluation will
provide technical feedback and knowledge. In addition to the supervision required by the Bank, the
NEP will strengthen capacity in AJK's DPIEE and the NA's Directorate of Education (DOE) to
perform monitoring and to coordinate and learn from evaluation activities. Because the project
focuses on improving classroom quality, increasing equity, and strengthening community support to
schools, meaningful evaluations will require systematic, field-based study. The plan is to conduct
intensive mid-term and final evaluations of the project's impact on increasing access, improving
educational quality, strengthening management and increasing community involvement. Annual
evaluations will also be conducted in the NA. Due to low institutional capacity in the NA,
appropriate technical assistance will be provided.
2.         It is important that a project designed to raise school quality makes an effort to assess
the impact it has made on learning achievement. For this reason, an assessment will be made of
student achievement, using a criterion-referenced test, in the first year and final years of the project.
With all that is known about the long-term and cumulative nature of educational reforms, it would be
fool-hardy to take such a test as the sole determinant of project success or failure. At the same time,
it would be negligent to omit such a measure. At the very least, the effort will inform future projects
about the degree of achievement results that can be expected in a four-to-five year period.
II. Indicators
3.         Overall project impact will be inferred from specific indicators collected under the
access and quality components. In particular, these indicators include increases in enrollment and
gender equity at primary and middle school levels and increases in achievement among grade 4
students.
4.         Improving the quality of elementary education will be measured by increased
availability of learning materials, improvements in teacher qualifications and observed changes in
classroom practices, as well as by the achievement testing described above. The assessment of
classroom practices will be one dimension of mid-term and final project reviews, in which a sample
of classes will be observed for the use of multi-grade techniques, continuous assessment, and other
appropriate pedagogical techniques. The final review will be reinforced by a special study undertaken
by the CRDC in AJK, under the curriculum subcomponent, of the effectiveness of alternative modes
of delivering learning materials. In the NA, the annual evaluation in 1999/200 will include a focus



90
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 9
on teacher training. The 2000/2001 evaluation will include an in-depth assessment of
teaching/learning processes. A sample of classes will be observed for the use of multi-grade
techniques, continuous assessment, and other appropriate pedagogical techniques. The final review
will also analyze current classroom practices.
5.         Increasing equitable access will be monitored through annual calculations of
enrollment, progression and completion rates, by gender, on a district and region-wide basis.
Baseline data will be reaffirmed through the school-mapping exercise. The strengthening of EMIS
will allow for regular access to this data. The first annual evaluation exercise in the NA, in
1998/1999, will focus on establishing access baselines and ensuring that EMIS is able to monitor
trends accurately.
6.         Success in strengthening institutional capacity will be indicated, in part, by the timely
conduct of program activities, including monitoring and evaluation activities. Underlying
management reform in the NA and AJK is the clear definition of management responsibilities. Thus,
the existence of job descriptions will be one piece of evidence that the system is being strengthened.
Because institutional strengthening determines the effectiveness of the project as a whole, the NA
annual evaluation in 1999/2000 will focus on the status of institutional capacity building at central and
district levels. The 2001/2002 review will assess progress in management strengthening in the
previous three years.
7.         Increasing community participation in schools may be the most difficult component to
evaluate effectively. Growth of community school committees gives a crude measure, but begs the
question of how effective community participation is in supporting and managing schools. The recent
review of the community schools program in the NA provides a baseline for evaluating their further
development, which will be a focus of the 2000/2001 annual evaluation. This will evaluate the
stability of enrollments and the teaching force in the community schools as well as improvements in
the quality of education which they offer. In AJK, the project will provide maintenance and learning
materials funds directly to school committees and the mid-term and final evaluation can assess the
effective use of these funds. Most expertise in community participation currently resides in the NGO
sector, and it may therefore be wise to include a community organizer in the field reviews, while at
the same time involving civil servants whose purview includes community development.



91                                                    ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 9
M. NA Mokorua bIdeatog;
OSIECTlVS                       INDICATOR                         BASELVE                          TARGEr                         SOURCE
ACCESS & EQUrrY                _                                _                                _      _    __=
lacrensed enrollment in primary  1 of children enrolled in prmai  Primsry                         Primary                      EMIS
and mniddle school              and middle school               79.027'                           102.150
Middle:                          Middle:
20.821                           25.600
Incelsed g    nder euity        % of girls in ementary          30%                               50%                          EMIS
enrollznent
incasd  eduanal  aimmt    Claswise prgremion is  by             Grede 1. TBD in Year 3            25 % incrcea by Year S       EWIS
QUALlY__                           _  _  _  _  _  _   _  ___                                         _  _   _  _    _  _  _
aremc teacer qualifeatioc      % techebn with credentia        50%  Primary                      95%  Primasy                 EMIS
32%  Middle                      90%  Middle
% of teachen receiving FBTD     lae than 1%                       100%                        AD Teacher Traiing + EMS
dat
Teaeber use of klamg ateris     % of observed lesons using      little to none                    TBD. 2000/2001 evaluation    200012001 nd fnul evaatooa
Teacher use of continuu         % observed techers using        litte to none                     TBD. 20001001 evaluation     2000f2001 and rfn  evaluaons
sammet. multigrade. etc         technique
lcreae laring                   Stdent achievement wCorm.       TBD Yr. I                         TBD Yr. I                    Sample achieveent survey. TA
grade 4                                                                                   _   to DOE
Teacher achievement scor        TBD Yr. 1                         TBD Yr. I
STRWiGTfElN
MAINAGLEMT
Rationalize educational         % posts with job descriptions    -                                100%. end of Year 2          1999/2000 nnual cvaluation
manaement
Information-based pla.ning      Requests for EMIS data                                            Requests from all levels of  Annual EMIS report 1999/2000
magement: evidence of u c     annual evaluation
Instiiutionszeplanning &       Timely completion of             BEed on progretn plans            100% annually                1999/2000& 2001/2002
tmpimeation capaciti           procurement                                                                                     evaluationt
Crete atnnualplns               na.                               100% annually                1999/2000& 2001/2002
evaluations
% ctivities inpktnented         Basd on a l plan                  100% annually                199912OOO& 2001/2002
according to pb nv evations
SIrNgthening onitoring&         rumely completion of M & E      Based on M & E schedule           100% annually                1999"/0& 2001/2002
evauation cpcity               functions                                                                                        valuations
COAMISIUTY
PARTICWPATON
Inasig community                I of VECs                       445 (u of May 1997)               Maximnum of 800              20/2001 & fruil annual reviews
involveat                                                          _
Conunon functioingof School   % VECs functioning 2 yes after   n.a.                               90% after 2 yea"             2000/2001& final ann   rvimws
Coin_a                         establishment
1/ 1994.



92
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 9
IV. Sources of NA Indicators
(a) Increasing equitable access
8.         NEP will support the development of an EMIS system for NA, from which access data
can be derived. Because the EMIS will only begin functioning in 1998/1999, the program will have
to rely on simple access indicators. These are: (i) enrollments in primary and middle schools, by
gender and district; (ii) percent of girls in elementary school; and (iii) classwise progression in
primary school. Baselines for the first two indicators have been estimated and will be revised in the
school mapping exercise undertaken in the first year of the program. Classwise progression rates can
only be estimated with successive years of data. Thus, in 1999/2000, it will be possible to determine
progression from Katchi to class 1, and in 2000/2001, from class 1 to class 2. Given evidence of
high dropouts in the early years, these statistics provide a good beginning for understanding trends in
educational attainment in NA.
(b) Improving quality
9.         Educational evaluators have long struggled with the question of how to assess school
quality, particularly in quantifiable terms. Three types of indicators of quality will be employed in
this project. The most readily available indicators are those that deal with system inputs that are
presumed to affect quality, such as the conditions of school facilities, the presence of textbooks and
the percent of qualified teachers. Student mastery of knowledge and skills derives from the
teaching/learning processes that take place in the schools. Thus, the program will support baseline
and end-of-project assessments of learning achievement in order to determine program impacts on
quality. The following set of indicators will be used for evaluating improved educational quality: (i)
percent of certified teachers (input); (ii) percent of teachers receiving FBTD (input); (iii) teacher use
of learning material (process); (iv) teacher use of multigrade techniques, continuous assessment, and
other active pedagogical skills (process); (v) learning achievement of teachers (impact); and (vi)
learning achievement of students (impact).
10.        Indicator (i) can be calculated from EMIS data, which will include the number of
teachers holding PTC, CT, BEd, MEd, or no teaching qualifications. It is important that the EMIS
questionnaire be designed so that teachers are identified by the level at which they teach, as well as
by type of school. Indicator (ii) will be derived by DOE from its data on FBTD training in relation
to the teacher data generated by EMIS. The process indicator (iii) and (iv) can be assessed only
through field-based observations of teaching/learning processes. Such observations will be a focus of
the 1999/2000 evaluations and final reviews. The impact indicators, (v) and (vi) will derive from
baseline and end-of-program testing of achievement among grade 4 students and teachers. The fourth
grade level is recommended for sample-based achievement testing -because improvements in the basic
literacy and numeracy skills are foundational to quality improvements. Because of the high costs and
implementation difficulties attendant upon population-wide testing, these assessments will be sample-
based. For reasons of cost-effectiveness and simplicity, the exams will cover only two subject areas,
Math and Urdu, which define literacy and numeracy. The technical skills required for such testing-
construction of criteria-referenced tests and sampling techniques--are as yet rare in Pakistan.
Therefore, substantial technical assistance (TA) will be required for this activity. At the same time,
emphasis on capacity building and local ownership dictate that this TA be integrated into the project



93
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 9
activity. Thus, the TA will work in conjunction with DOE departments of curriculum and
examinations.
(c) Strengthening institutional capacity
11.        All indicators for the component of strengthening management capacity are of a process
nature. The major indicators are: (i) percent of administrative posts with job descriptions; (ii) use of
EMIS data by administrative staff; (iii) timely completion of procurement; (iv) creation of annual
implementation plans by each implementing agency; (v) percent of activities according to plan; and
(vi) timely completion of monitoring and evaluation activities. The DOE has begun work on creating
job descriptions. It is expected that all administrative positions under the DOE will have job
descriptions by the end of year two. Indicator (ii), which gives a sense of the use of information for
planning purposes, can be generated by a simple annual report from EMIS on information requests.
The report should specify the source and nature of the request. Indicators (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) will
be generated annually in the project review and planning process in conjunction with Bank
supervision. The annual evaluations in 1999/2000 and 2001/2002 will focus on institutional
development. Because management capacity is central to the success of the program, early review
will enable necessary adjustments to be made.
(d) Increasing community participation
12.        The two indicators of increased community participation in education are also process
indicators. They are: (i) number of Village Education Committees formed; and (ii) number of Village
Education Committees functioning after two years. These indicators will be calculated in the
2000/2001 annual evaluation and in the final evaluation. In both years, community participation
specialists will also visit community schools and interview VEC members, teachers, and parents, in
order to assess the quality of education provided, as well as to identify any constraints to the effective
functioning of the community schools. The following table summarizes the specific components
which will be assessed in annual evaluations:
Focus of annual evaluations
Year          Focus
1998/1999     Access: Data Quality
1999/2000     1. Institutional Development
2. Teacher Training
2000/2001     1. Community participation
2. Classroom practices
2001/2002     1. Assessment
2. Institutional Development
2002          All program components



94
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 9
V. AJX Mooitorne Indlators
OBJECrIVES                                 INDICATOR                                  BASELINE                                 TARGET                                 SOURCE
ACCESS & EQUITy
hmmosed  comll1oot in pimiy sd              N of childreo eexolled in prinry snd     Prism,y:                                    PrdmarY:                           EMIS
middle sb ol                                    I. s~o,                              423,061                                     535.30D
Middle:                                    Middle:
116,918                                    14,0CO
lnesed  ed         ty                       S of d i s in middleboel etuollss        36%                                        93%                                 EMIC
Incrased             ui = _                 Clssewis. peognesu  i1mis  by goer         rsnd  3, TED in Yeat I                   25%  w_e by Yest                    EMIS
Grade    oplion nut. by  rbt             TBD in Yot 3                               10% iseas by Yt             _       EDMIAS .4h do. ftm  DEO
QUALITy
1omes.,  sebe qlios.s                       S i Ge_  n   ith osedeniuls              80%  P.7.s                                 95%  Prsmsy                         EMIS
84%  Middl                                 90%  Middl
% of weaime  eiing INSET                 1% Priosy, in Iosgssd Curtiolun,           100% Primy  in IC, Yot 3            EEC + EMIS d
Fot otkmr cow,., TBD                       Oftr TBD in EEC Amnl
Tesober ses of' lning  itr                  I of ob%deled lese eg wig mtersils       TBD, mtid-unm                              TBD, mid-utm                        Mid-tenm .e rhel natiew) CRDC
Tear w  of coss s.m.m,                      B obs_rrod teedr swing uedsskqe           t Ihle toso ,                             TBD  mnid-%cnn -alustion            Mid-tenn   d r.AI rves
oneltietrad.  ott,_                                                                                                                                                       _  _    _     _  _    _     _
incosee, imtOso                             Snaen .d-.mn t sees., Sde 4             TED Yr. I                                  TBD Yr. I                           Sunopl acslivoram  surW, TA  ith
CRDC, AD A         _seem & Va
T_dee.  d-lent  eTD Yr. I                                                          TBD Yr. I
STRENCITHEN MANAGEMENT
Ratilz  ed_Uctional m%em                      p  ts  ith job desriptioe                                                          100%. ad of Yoes 2                 DPI EbnsAey
Infonnl _-bs.d plasmiog                     Requs for EMIS dat                                                                  Rcqs-te froma  11 oWlbl of          Aewl EMIS repos: Mid-teso sd
tagoet; oviden  of se                w reesl o
Imtitionalize pisootg A                      iemly oeospltiee of p r                 BEased on pronu  pIe                        100% aOmts y                       AD Procu=set sid Disbursement
iottl-tios  capaot ee
C-t  ---I piecel                          .a.                                        100%  remlly                       DPIEEE: al impleening agim
% ejitiC  in pemnd   eerdin  to         BSad m ---1 ptM                                                                 DD for Eln_easy DeWpmm
pan                                                                                                                     Provesm lemP-sen
Seogthetung meetoing & e.waion             rteuly nooplet  of M & E fumeiew          Baud on MA E .lulc                          100% annually                      DD for Elementary Denelp-e
e ity                                                                                                                                                               Prognrm Implemeteton
COMMUNIUTY PARTICIPATION
lnreasing co nity i        nt                  of School Coneitee, (SC) in pilot     0                                           50                                 Com ty Port iptionC TA; Mid-tne
distict sa Mid-Tecm Reovv                                                                                                rvise'.
Contineem fitviong of dseol                S SC functioning 2 Years oftr            0                                           90% after 2 Yom                    Community Participatio  TA; Mid-term
Cosse i                                     C.eblistIne                                                                                                             & bid rn
Effemis   e of mvinces fe_                 AAnce eni.-d by co        -y  P    u        c                                         Sos  fAd.  es    - U.no _tie;      Mid-m  and (isl
of expeaditums                                                                       Used for meinteoce
Effntew  se, of leseosbeg ossted  ila f     Amus  A   mmsinobr cmsed by n ity, Purpose,    a.S. Soee  fuasl  f                                         irom   esseie;  Mid-teenm  end fisl
of e                                                                                 Usd for Lasibeg mnateril
2/ 1994.95.



95
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 9
VI. Sources of AJK Indicators
(a) Increasing equitable access
13.        Three of the indicators for increasing equitable access can be derived directly from
EMIS and the fourth by combining EMIS with district-level data. The EMIS system in AJK collects
data on student enrollments, teachers and their qualifications, and physical facilities. The data is
collected annually in October and published in March or April. The following indicators of equitable
access will be calculated by the EMIS system analyst: (i) enrollments in primary and middle schools,
by gender and district; (ii) percent of girls in middle school; (iii) classwise progression rates, by
gender; and (iv) grade 5 completion rates, by gender. It is a simple matter for the EMIS system
analyst to extract the first two indicators and baselines already exist. The third and fourth indicators
to be derived from EMIS data, gradewise progression and grade 5 completion rates, by gender,
present greater technical problems. Absolute accuracy in this data would depend upon individual
student identification, which is beyond the capacity of the EMIS at this time or during the life of the
project. Progression and completion rates can be estimated, however, using methods of cohort
reconstruction. At a minimum, cohort reconstruction techniques require the calculation and use of
repetition rates. The EMIS questionnaire has, since 1994/95, included a section on grade-wise
repetition, by gender. EMIS staff report that nearly half of schools fail to fill in the section, with a
resulting loss of data quality. The verification of data process which will be built into the Institutional
Capacity component will ensure higher quality of this data. Whatever their quality, repetition rates
will only have been calculated for three years at the time of project start-up. Thus, the baseline for
the project will be grade three progression rates, or the percentage of a cohort which reaches grade 3.
In each subsequent year of the project, progression rates can be calculated for the next higher class.
A portion of the TA provided for strengthening EMIS should be devoted to the design of a simple
computer program enabling progression rates to be calculated on the basis of cohort reconstruction.
14.        The fourth access indicator derived from EMIS data, grade five completion rates by
gender, cannot be established until year three of the program. In this year, the progression rates of
students into grade five will be known. Completion rates will be calculated by the percentage of
students passing the grade five end-of-year exam. In order for this indicator to be accurate, students
sitting for the exam must indicate on their exam paper whether or not they have repeated grade five.
AEOs must be made aware of the need for this information and its use, so that it can be properly
explained to students and teachers.
15.        In the mid-term and final reviews, evaluators will conduct interviews with children who
have and have not completed grade five, and their parents, in order to understand better the reasons
for completion and non-completion. Rapid appraisal methods have been effective for eliciting such
information in other countries. The evaluation should concentrate on areas with low girls' completion
rates, which will be identifiable through the EMIS data.
(b) Improving the quality of elementary education
16.        Three types of indicators of quality will be employed in this project. The most readily
available indicators are those that deal with system inputs that are presumed to affect quality, such as
the conditions of school facilities, the presence of textbooks and the percent of qualified teachers.



96
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 9
Student mastery of knowledge and skills derives from the teaching/learning processes that take place
in the schools. The fundamental meaning of quality in education is that students master the
knowledge and skills conveyed in the curriculum. Thus, the program will support baseline and end-
of-project assessments of learning achievement in order to determine program impacts on quality.
The following set of indicators will be used for evaluating improved educational quality: (i) percent of
trained teachers (input); (ii) percent of teachers receiving INSET (input); (iii) teacher use of learning
materials (process); (iv) teacher use of multigrade techniques, continuous assessment, and other active
pedagogical skills (process); (v) learning achievement of teachers (impact); and (vi) learning
achievement of students (impact).
17.        Indicator (i) can be calculated from existing EMIS data, which includes the number of
teachers holding PTC, CT, BEd, MEd, or no teaching qualification. However, this indicator will be
more meaningful if a simple modification is made to the EMIS questionnaire. Currently, teacher data
is reported by t    of school, rather than level at which teachers are teaching. Because middle and
secondary schools include primary sections, it is not possible to sort out primary teachers--and their
qualifications--from the data. Adding two lines to the current questionnaire would solve this problem.
Indicator (ii) percent of teachers receiving INSET, will be derived by EEC from is data on INSET
training in relation to the teacher data generated by EMIS. In particular, EEC should track the
percentage of primary teachers which received INSET on the Integrated Curriculum. Currently, only
about 1 % of AJK's primary teachers have benefitted from this training. The process indicators (iii)
and (iv), can be assessed only through field-based observations of teaching/learning processes. Such
observations will form a second dimension of the mid-term and final reviews. Evaluators will
develop simple questionnaire for classroom observation and teacher and student interviews in order to
evaluate these processes. In a special study in the final two project years, the CRDC will examine in
greater depth the use of learning materials by teachers. The CRDC will also incorporate field testing
and monitoring of textbooks into their curriculum development cycle. These activities will contribute
to the evaluation of the curriculum subcomponent. The impact indicators, (v) and (vi) will derive
from baseline and end-of-program testing of achievement among grade four students and teachers.
T-he fourth grade level is recommended for sample-based achievement testing for two reasons: (i) the
curriculum for grades 1-3 will be delivered through already-existing textbooks; and (ii) improvements
in the basic literacy and numeracy skills are foundational to quality improvements. As in NA, these
assessments will be sample-based. For reasons of cost-effectiveness and simplicity, the exams will
cover only two subject areas, Math and Urdu, which define literacy and numeracy.
18.        The technical skills required for such testing -- construction of criterion-referenced tests
and sampling techniques -- are as yet rare in Pakistan. Therefore, substantial TA will be required for
this activity. At the same time, program emphasis on capacity building and local ownership dictate
that this TA be integrated into program activity. Thus, the TA will work under the auspices of and in
conjunction with CRDC, which is the institution responsible for development of grade-wise
competency lists. These competency lists provide the criteria on which the tests will be constructed.
(c) Strengthening institutional capacity
19.        All indicators for the component of strengthening management capacity are of a process
nature. The major indicators are: (i) percent of administrative posts with job descriptions; (ii) use of
EMIS data by administrative staff; (iii) timely completion of procurement; (iv) creation of annual



97
ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 9
implementation plans by each implementing agency; (v) percent of activities implemented according to
plan; and (vi) timely completion of monitoring and evaluation activities.
20.        The DPI(EE) has begun work on creating job descriptions, beginning with the position
of AEOs. It is expected that all administrative positions under the DPIEE will have job descriptions
by the end of program year two. Indicator (ii) which gives a sense of the use of information for
planning purposes, can be generated by a simple annual report from EMIS on information requests.
The report should specify the source and nature of the request. In mid-term and final review,
evaluators can follow up on the reports by discussions with information users and non-users.
Indicators (iii) (iv) (v) and (vi) will be generated annually in the program review and planning process
in conjunction with Bank supervision.
(d) Increasing community participation
21.        The four indicators of increased community participation in education are also process
indicators. They are: (i) number of school committees formed; (ii) number of school committees
functioning after two years; (iii) effective use of maintenance funds; and (iv) effective use of learning
materials funds.
22.        Indicators (i) and (ii) will be routinely collected by the TA for community participation.
The same TA will provide input to the mid-term and final evaluations for determining indicators (iii)
and (iv). The terms of reference for this portion of the evaluations will specify that evaluators
determine, for a sample of school committees, (a) the level of community contributions to
maintenance and learning materials; (b) the specific purposes to which these funds have been put; and
(c) community views on the effectiveness of the school management committees in these two areas.
VII. Oversight of and reporting on monitoring and evaluation activities
23.        The sections above detailed specific means and responsibilities for gathering monitoring
indicators. In all cases, however, it is the responsibility of relevant offices in the DPI/EE and the
DOE to ensure that evaluation exercises are conducted and that the resulting information is fed back
into project planning and implementation.



98
ANNEX7
Page 1 of 14
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Timeline and Modalities
The project would be implemented over a five year period in both the NA and AJK, starting in
the first semester of FY1997-98 and closing on June 30, 2002. Although a detailed forecasting of
activities year-by-year has been done for project planning and costing purposes (and is reflected in Project
Implementation Plans prepared by the NA and AJK administrations prior to Negotiations), experience has
shown that flexibility in meeting overall policy goals and targets is crucial. The project has therefore
undertaken a more flexible approach in the use of Annual Plans to determine annual implementation
targets in support of policy goals.
Implementation Responsibilities
On a day-to-day basis, the Directorate/Department of Education would be responsible for: (a)
monitoring program costs and program accounts; (b) processing disbursement applications and keeping
track of disbursements of credit funds; (c) procurement of equipment and administration of contracts; (d)
placement and tracking of any local staff receiving training abroad; (e) monitoring program/project
implementation; (f) preparation of Annual Plans and periodic consolidated reports of the progress of
project implementation, with reference to agreed monitoring indicators. DOE structure, additional
staffing needs, and specific implementation responsibilities by objectives and components for both NA
and AJK are presented in the tables that follow:



99                                                                                                                      ANNEX7
Page 2 of 14
PAKISTAN - NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
NORTHERN AREAS - DIRECTORATE OF EDUCATION
Staffing Requirements
I  [_______ IDA Financing
Title                                      Pay Scale                            Government Financing                                            Additional   Contract   Cost Table
Staffing                      Staff                      Reference
1.   Assistant Director, Curriculum                                                       BS-17   Deputy Inspector of school to be
and Materials Development                                                                         redesignated as AD-Cvi
......... Z       s:............................................................ .......................  .................................... ...................... ............ .......................... ..................I....              .................. ............................ ..........................
2.   Assistant Director, Teacher                                                           BS-17   Existing post
Training and Supervision
..................................................... ,.,......................  .................................................................. .......................... .......................   ...............
3.   Assistant Director,                                                                  BS-17  New post of AD already created
Examinations and Assessment
4.   Assistant Director, Community                                                         BS-17   Assistant Inspector of schools
Mobilization, NGOs & SAP                                                                          redesignated as AD
5.   Assistant Director, Monitoring
and Evaluation                                                                BS-17                                                                                                              1                                          Table 601
6.   Assistant Director, Planning                                                          BS-17   NewpostofA   aireadycreated
.................................................. X...................... ..................... .......I.....................I..........I..........I...... .......................... .......................   ...............
7.   Accounts/Procurement                                                                  BS- 16  Existing
S.   Assistant Accounts Officer                                                           BS-16   Existing
9.   Administrative Officer,                                                               BS-16   Existing
Elementary Education
....... ............................................................   ......................  ..................................................................  ..........................  .......................  ................
10.   Assistant Director,
Administrative Section,                                                       BS-17                                                                                                              I                                          Table 601
Education
11.  Assistant Director, Colleges                                                          BS-17  New post of AD already created
.............................. ..................................   ......................   ..................................................................   ..........................  .......................   ...............
12.  Deputy Director,                                                                       BS-IS   New post of DD already created
Administration
...                                                         .. .................. ......................  ............................. ................ ...I.................. .......................... ........................ ................................................ ......... ................. ........... 
13.  Deputy Director, Colleges                                                              BS-18  New post of DD already created
...............                      ... ......................................   > .....................   .................................................................. ......................................   .......................... .
14. Deputy Director, SAP and
community mobilization                                                        BS-18                                                                                                               I                                          Table 601
.......            ...................................................... ............. ............ ...................... ............................................... .......................... .......................   ................. ............... ...............................
15.  Deputy Director, EMIS                                                                  BS-18  New post already created
16.  Director, Academics                                                                    BS-19  New post of DD to be upgraded
to BS-19 through adjustment
............    ..... ....................................................   ......................  ..................................................................  ..........................  .......................   ...............
17.  Director, Planning,                                                                   BS-19  New post of DD to be upgraded
Development and Monitoring                                                                        to BS-19 through adjustment
... ....................................................... ................ ..........  ...................... ....I........................................... .......................... .......................  ................. .............................. .... ........... 
18.  Director-General of Education                                                          BS-20  New post of DD to be upgraded
to BS-19 through adjustment
~~~~~~~~~...................................... .............................. ............... ...................... ........................................ .......................... .......................   ................. ............... ...............................
19.  Programmer                                                                            BS-I 8  New post already created
20.   Data Entry Operators (4)                                                              8S-12   New posts already created
.............................................I............. ................ ..........  ...................... ................................................ .......................... .......................   ................. ............... ...............................
21.  Computer Operator (1)                                                                  BS-16                                                                                                              I                                          Table 601
............................................................... .. E.............. ...........................................................I....... .......................... ....................... ................
22.  Systems Analyst                                                                 BS-18/19                                                                                                                           I                                  Table 701
23.          EngineeBr ..........................                                           BS-18                                                                                                               I                                          Table 603
~~~~~~~~~......................................... ......................  ........... ......................................................... ...................... ......... .......................  ................................... ............ .............. ........... 
24.   Statistician                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                                  Table 701
2~~~~~~~~~..................    ..... oygrpeBSi ........  ................................................. .........................  ............   .................
25.  Stenographer                                                  ES-~~~~~~15                                                                                                        2                                           Table 60.
26    tnotypist                                                                   BS-12                                                                                                              3                                           Table 601
............................   ..............2........  .................................................. .................... .6.. .............bl...  f ~ ~ ...
27.  Upper Division Clerk                                                                      BS-7                                                                                                           10                                           Table 60.
28.  Naib Qasid                                                                                ES-I                                                                                                          12                                            Table 601
29.  Chowkidar                                                                                 ES-I                                                                                                            I                                           Table 601
~~~~~~.................................................. ....................... .......................................................... ..I...... .............. .............. ......................   ........................................................................... ........... 
30.  Driver                                                                                    BS-4                                                                                                            2                                           Table 601
.......................................................   ......................  ................................................................... ................G..........  .......................  ...............
31.  Data Entry Operators (EMIS)                                                            BS-12                                                                                                              4                                           Table 701
..................................... ................................................ ...................... ............... .......................I........................................... ....................... .......................... .......................  ... ... .................... .
32.  Computer Operator (EMIS)                                                               BS-16                                                                                                               I                                          Table 701
..y                 5f...... ................................... ...............................................I...................... ...........................................................................   ...................................... ......................... .......... Y W ......... 
33.  UDC (EMIS)                                                                                BS-7                                                                                                            4                                           Table 701
L   ......a                                                                                                                                                                                          



100                                                                                   ANNEX7
Page 3 of 14
PAKISTAN - NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
NORTHERN AREAS - DIRECTORATE OF EDUCATION - DISTRICT LEVEL
Staffing Requirements
______,___ IDA Financing
Title                          Pay Scale                Government Financing                         Additional   Contract   Cost Table
(Existing Staff)                       Staffing              Staff              Reference
1.  District Education Officers (5)                           BS-18   4 DDs (including one new post)                                           I                              Table 602
redesignated as DEO
2.  Deputy District Education                                  BS-17                                                                           ,5                             Table 602
Ofricer, Academics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............ ............. ........... s...................... ........ ..........I............. ...........................  ......................... ........... ...........................
3.  Deputy District Education                                 BS-17                                                                             5                             Table 602
Officer, Planning,
Development and Monitoring
4.    Deputy Di str ct  Educa              n                  BS-1  7             5     D epu ty  Inspector of Schools .................................. ....................... .............................
Officer, Administration                                              redesignated as DDEO
----.........._1 ........                                                .............. ..................................................... ............. ..........5... ............. .......... ..........T... able60...2
5.  Assistant Education Officer,                              BS-16                                                                            5                              Table 602
Curriculum and Materials
Development, and
Examinations and Assessment
..................................................... ................... .................................................................. .......................5... ....................... .....T..able..60..2
g6.  Assistant Education officer,                                BS-16                                                                            5                              Table 602
Teacher Training and
Supervision, and Community
Mobilization
....................................''ii~l   y~ .......... ...............   ................................................................. .......................... ....................... ...............
7.  Assistant Education Officer,                              BS-16   5
Planning, Development and
Monitoring
............................................................................ ...................... .................................................................. .......................... ....................... ...............
8.  Assistant Education Officer                               BS-16   32
(Field Level)
................................................................... ...................... .................................................................. .......................... ....................... ...............
9.  Computer Operator (5)                                     BS-16                                                                             5                             Table 602
.................................................................. ...................... .................................................................. .......................... ....................... ...............
10.  Data Entry Operator (10)                                   BS-12                                                                          10                               Table 602
i 11.  Superintendent (3 posts)                                 BS-11   3 New positions already created
12.  Upper District Clerk                                         BS-7                                                                          10                              Table 602
13.  Naib Qasid                                                   BS-1                                                                         20                               Table
14.  Driver                                                       BS-4                                                                           5                              Table 602



Figure 1
RECOMMENDED ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF DIRECTORATE OF EDUCATION, NORTHERN AREAS
Secretary
Education
Health & Local Govt.
Director-General
of Education
Oired4r    1                                               Dr~~~~~~~~~~~~orel to
Crk TAchdeir  |rg    Examinations           Protect     Plner        Planning      Accountant                                                                                   Ast.    APsings Deveisaent
Ma rits                                                           & Supe ision  Assessmentonitoring  .Procure entAsistantomm. Mo.Adminstr
I                         I  Dp D or                 f Dhp.1Irector                 Dep. f tiredor   .          Dep. Df&fry
lIIS                   SAP S                       Am   tarnCobe
_Comrm1. Mob          e     Femar e
Asst. Dir.   Asst. Dir.   Asst. Dir.           Asst. Dir.    Physical   Assl. Dr.                                                                                                      II
CurricuhrmSTearherTrgExam'ati'ons                 Project    Planner      Plarnning    f ;;;-  |As  || st. i.      sssat I
Malerial   & Supevision     Assessment         MoJnitoring   .|(Procurement)i    Assistant    l|Crm   o.|                                                       |Amitaie      dhsrlo                        reo
Devebpment   l                              l                                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~     ~~~~~~Accounisofficer  &  NGs  | | Oie            eodrE 
sL                     .   |   .                                 | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(ftudget. Accounts                     |ElretyEd|              j
v  | Senirr | . | &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~&Disbursements)|li
Superintendent
Superintendernt                                                   Superintendent
| Pro9rimmer | |  Demographed  |
| | | C~ommunily S Ed.|
Dat Entry         Seiais 
IOperatoJrs|



Figure 2
RECOMMENDED ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE OF EDUCATION, DISTRICT LEVEL, NORTHERN AREAS
DISTRICT LEVEL
| Distdct Education |
Officer
(Male/Female)
I              (One of the DDEOs will be Female) 
I Dputy DsrdDeputy District                                                                                                                   Deputy Dislic
Eduralion Offilcer                                                   Education Officer                                                      Education Officer
Academics                                                        Plan., Dev. & Monit.                                                      Administration
Assi. Educ. Off.             Asst. Educ. Off.               Asst. Educ. Off.          Superintendent               EMIS                     Superintendent                Superntendent
Curriculum & Mats.           Teacher Trg. & Sup.,           Planning, Develop-        Budget & AccountsJ         (Computer &               Admin.. Eemen. Ed.              Admin., Sec. Ed.
Dev., Examinations           Community Mob. &               ment & Monitoring           Disbursements           Data Entry Staff)           induding Community           including Community
& Assessment                    NGOs__                                                                                                    & NGO Funcions                & NGO Functions
(One Female)                                               (Two Female)                                                          (one Female)                          t
SUB-DISTRICT LEVEL
One Assistant Education Officer (AEO)
for 25 schools
BELOW TEHSIL
A middle school (called Elementary School) will serve as resource center (RC) for
5 Primary Schools. AEO will thus be in charge of 4-5 Resource Centers. Resource Centers will be strengthened
to cater to the quality needs of the cluster.
0 



103                                           ANNEX.7
Page 6 of 14
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES - NORTHERN AREAS
TASK/             COMPONENTS         DESCRIPTION               RESPONSIBLE         COORDINATION
OBJECTIVE
Overall program    All               Ensure program is in line   Program Steering  All
coordination                         with state priorities and  Committee
resources; approval of
annual plans
Coordination of    All               Ensure collaboration of  Director of         Directors of
Program                              various institutions      Education, Program   Academics, Planning,
Implementation                       involved in program       lmplementation      Development and
implementation           Committee;          Monitoring,
AKDN-DOE            Administration,
Coordinating       District Level
Committee           Offices, Colleges of
Elementary
Education, AKESP,
AKRSP
Monitoring of     All                Regular tracking of      All Directorates    Assistant Director,
program                              program activities,       and District       Project Monitoring
implementation                       expenditures, and         Offices, AKESP     for centralizing
indicators               and AKRSP for       information
relevant
components
Reporting on      All                Provide comprehensive     Director, Planning,   All Directors, District
program                              overview of program       Development and     Offices, AKESP and
implementation,                      status                   Monitoring          A!KRSP
monitoring and
evaluation
activities
Preparation and    All               Regular reporting required   Director, Planning,   All other departments
submission of                        under loan agreements,    Development and     and district offices;
financial and                        and necessary for         Monitoring          perhaps P&D and
other reports to                     fnancial reimbursements                       Finance
federal Govt,
IDA
Preparation of    All                Set annual targets for    All Directorates,   Director, Planning
Annual                               implementation            plus AKESP and      Development and
Implementation                                                 AKRSP               Monitoring for
and Investment                                                                     centralizing
Plans                                                                              information



104                                                    ANFX7
TASK/             COMPONENTS          DESCRIPTION               RESPONSIBLE          COORDINATION          Page 7 of 14
OBJECTIVE
Preparation and   Quality             Development, trialling    DOE, Director        teachers, AEOs,
oversight of      Improvement         and research on           Academics            AKESP any other
educational                           educational materials to                       agency purchasing or
materials                             improve teaching-learning                      providing educational
provision                             process                                        materials
Provision of      Quality             Improvement of content    DOE Director         District Level offices,
FBTD courses      Improvement         knowledge and skills of   Academics, AKESP   Elementary Teacher
for elementary                        existing teaching force                        Training Colleges
teachers
Oversight of      Quality             Investments training of   DOE, Director        Elementary Coleges
Improvements in   Improvement         instructors, improvements   Academics          of Education
pre-service                           in PTC and CT course
training                              content, investments in
training materials
Oversight of      Quality             Training of teachers and    DOE Director of    AKESP, Elementary
activities related    Improvement     instructors in continuous    Academics,        Colleges of Education
to development                        assessment techniques     Assistant Director
of assessment                                                   Examinations and
capacity                                                        Assessment
Development of    Improving           School mapping, training    Directorate        Director
Physical Planning   Equitable Access  of central and district   Planning             Administration
Capacity                              offices in use of         Development and
information               Monitoring with
Technical Cell
Oversight of      Improving           Training of communities    Civil Engineering   District Offices,
School            Equitable Access    and supervision of civil  Cell (with           Community
construction                          works                     consultant help on    Mobilization
activities                                                      training), Education   Coordinator
Planning
Department
Improving         Improving           Decisions made on the     Directorate of       AU Departments and
availability and  Institutional       basis of timely, accurate    Planning,         district offices, P&D
use of            Capacity            information               Development and
information                                                     Monitoring; DD
EMIS



105                                                    ANNFX-7
Page 8 of 14
TASK/             COMPONENTS          DESCRIPTION               RESPONSIBLE          COORDINATION
OBJECTIVE                                                                                                  l
improving         Improving           Provision of additional    Director for        District offices
working           Institutional       supervisory staff (AEOs),   Planning,
conditions, tools    Capacity         vehicles, computers, etc.    Monitoring and
Development for
procurement                               l
Management        improving           Training in supervision,  Director, Planning,   All departments.
Training for Staff  Institutional     use of information, use of   Development and   District offices
Capacity            computers, etc.           Monitoring
Improving         Increasing          Training for DOE staff in   Director, SAP and    Director,
capacity of DOE    Community          community mobilization    Community            Administration;
to work in        Participation       and other areas related to    Mobilization;    District Offices
partnership with                      working with VECs and     Assistant Director.
communities                           PTAs                      Community
Mobilization and
l____________                                  NGOs; AKRSP
Further           Increasing          Refinement of policy      Director, SAP and    All departments
development of    Community           towards community         Community
community         Participation       schools; development of    Mobilization;
school program                        alternative financing and  Assistant Director,
management arrangements   Community
for community school      Mobilization and
program through pilot     NGOs; AKESP
project, and study of
examples elsewhere in
Pakistan and abroad.



106
ANNEX7
Page 9 of 14
PAKISTAN - NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR - DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Staffing Requirements
Additional
Institution                 Title              Number       PC-I        IDA      Cost Table   through
Reference   Financing  Reference    redeployment
I    CRDC             (a) Subject Specialist               3  p. 57                3  Table 511
(b) Specialist in Continuous        I  -                     I  Table 511             (1) /a
Assessment
(c) Data Entry Operator              I  p. 57                   Table 511
(d) Stenographer                    I  -                                                  I
(e) Senior Clerk                     I  -                                                 I
(f) Junior Clerk                    I  -                                                  I
2.   EEC              (a) Subject Specialist               3  p. 57                3  Table 511                 3
(b) Data Entry Operator             1  p. 57                1  Table 511                  -
(c) Stenographer                    I                                                     I
(d) Senior Clerk                    1                                                     I
(e) Junior Clerk                    I                                                     I
3.   Planning Cell   (a) Physical Planner/Engineer         I  p. 57                1  Table 511                  -
(b) Computer Operator               I  p. 57                1  Table 511                  -
(c) Data Entry Operator             I  p. 57                1  Table 511                  -
(d) Head Clerk                       I l
4.   DPIEE            (a) Data Entry Operator              I  p. 57                1  Table 511                  -
(b) Deputy Director                  I  -                    -                            I
(c) Assistant Director              4              -                                      4
(d) Superintendent                  I  -                                                  I
(e) Head Clerk                      2               -                                     2
(f) Stenographer                     I  -                                                 I
(g) Accountant                       I  -                                                 I
(h) Senior Clerk                    3               -                                     3
.___________________  (i) Junior Clerk                4               -                                     4
5.   Secretary        Data Entry Operator                  I  p. 57                1  Table 511                  -
Education
6.   EMIS             Data Entry Operator                  4  p. 57                4  Table 611                  -
7.   Engineering      (a) Executive Engineer               1  p. 27                I  Table 513                  -
Cell            (b) Assistant Engineer                5  p. 27                5  Table 513                 -
(c) Office Superintendent            I  p. 27                I  Table 513                 -
(d) Computer Operator                I  p. 27                1  Table 513                 -
(e) Divisional Accounts Officer      I  p. 27                1  Table 513
(f) Head Draftsman                   I  p. 27                1  Table 513
(g) Stenographer                     1  p. 27                1  Table 513                 -
(h) Overseers                       12  p. 27               12  Table 513                 -
(i) Senior Accounts Clerk           6  p. 27                6  Table 513                  -
(j) Drivers                         5  p. 27                5  Table 514                  -
(k) Peon/Sweeper                   13  p. 27                6  Table 514
8.   District&        AEOs                                26  p.57                26  Table 512
Below
j/ Position would come through redeployment, but IDA would finance the salary.



AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR
Figure 1: ORGANIZATION CHART OF DPI lELEMENTARY EDUCATION)
(ExslastJg and Proposed Conbin.d)
Director, Public
Instruction, Elemntary
Education /3
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Curr. Ronearch
& On. Center
Deetorate 13                      Deputy Drector                                 Deputy  ecdor                          Deputy Direcior                         Deputy Director                                       Deputy Direor
Elebmntary Educ. Dev.                           Eteentaty Educ.                          Adminstration                         Elementary Educ.                                        (Acadenics) n2
Deputy /3'rPov. tmplementation /2                                               (Female) /1                            (Female) Q2                              (Male) /1
Director /3
0
Ant  ir   A.ot -Dirket  i.As.Dr                                                       Ao.Dr                  stDr                  i                                         n.   DrAssI. Dir.                   Ao.Dr
Poueet&  Cenrdaoatn /21       Bde             Fml  )1              (eae2/            diitain             Amrsr/n          j ~ i                 Ml  (1         Bde         NE.Cm             Assessment &       Pe-ric
Dolt me   n 1                     I  Ofcer n/ |                                                (Male) n2            (Fere) /2                                          |ort/1 |   & Teotbool n /2    Examinations n      Trabnig a
I ~       ~          ~           r 1
Note: 1. Exostng, btA merged wih the proposed.
2. Proposed.                                                                                                                                                                                                     b
3. Existkin. mid woutd ontaue.                                                                                                                                                                               O



AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR
Figure 2: Organizational Chart of Education Extension Center (EEC)
(Existing and Proposed Combined)
Direcor, Public
Instruction, Secondary
Education /3
Director
EEC /3
Subject Specialist       Subject Specialist       Subject Specialist       Subject Specialist                         Subject Specialist        Subject Specialist             oo
Mathematics /i             Science /I               English /1                Urdu /2                                 Social Studies /2     Multigrade Teaching /2
ana emen
Training Unit
Specialist       Specialist in     Specialist in
in Planning /2   Management /2     Supervision /2
Note: 1. Existing, redesignated.
2. Proposed.
3. Existing, and would continue.
4H.



109                                            ANNEX7
Page 12 of 14
AZAD JAMMU & KASHMIR
Figure 3: Organizational Chart of Elementary Education - Existing and Proposed combined
Secretary
Education
Director, Public
Instruction (EE) |
Director, Curr. & Res.
Dev. Center (CRDC)
Officers        _    Deputy Distr. Educ.
(Male & Fe male - 12)      OfRcers (M&F12
Assistant Education
Officers (M&F - 89)



110                                        . ANNEX7
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES - AJK                                 Page 13 of 14
TASK/                  COMPONENT          DESCRIPTION           RESPONSIBLE         COORDINATION
OBJECTIVE
Overall program        All                Ensure program is in    ACS and Secretary    P&D, Finance
coordination                              line with state       of Education,
priorities and       through Steering
resources; approval of   Committee
annual plans
Coordination of        All                Ensure collaboration    DPIEE, Program    DPI Secondary,
Program                                   of various institutions   Implementation  EEC, Education
Implementation                           involved in program    Subcommittee        Planning, CRDC,
implementation                            District Level
Offices, Colleges of
Elementary
Education
Monitoring of program    All             Regular tracking of    All Departments     DPIEE, for
implementation                           program activities,                        centralizing
expenditures, and                         information
indicators
Reporting on program   All                Provide               DPIEE               All Departments
implementation,                           comprehensive
monitoring and                            overview of program
evaluation activities                    status
Preparation and        All                Regular reporting     DPIEE               All other
submission of financial                  required under loan                        departments and
and other reports to                     agreements, and                            district offices;
federal Govt, IDA                        necessary for financial                    perhaps P&D and
reimbursements                            Finance
Preparation of         AU                 Set annual targets for   All Departments  DPIEE and
Annual Implementation                    implementation                             Education Planning
and Investment Plans                                                                for centralizing
information
Preparation and        Quality            Development, trialling   CRDC             DPIEE Deputy
oversight of educational  Improvement    and research on                            Director Academics;
materials provision                       educational materials                     teachers, EEC,
to improve teaching-                      AEOs; any other
learning process                          agency purchasing
or providing
educational
materials
Development of in-     Quality           Improvement of         EEC                 CRDC, DPIEE,
service training courses   Improvement    content knowledge and                     District Level
and programs for                         skills of existing                         offices, Elementary
elementary teachers                      teaching force                             Teacher Training
Colleges



111                                                     ANNEX7
Page 14 of 14
TASKM                   COMPONENTS    DESCRIPTION                RESPONSIBLE           COORDINATION
OBJECTIVE
Oversight of activities    Quality         Training of teachers  DPIEE                CRDC, EEC,
related to development   Inprovement       and instructors in                         Elementary Colleges
of assessment capacity                     continuous assessment                      of Education
techniques
Development of          Improving          School mapping,       Education Planning    DPIEE
Physical Planning       Equitable Access   training of central and   Department;
Capacity                                   district offices in use    EEC/MTU
of information
Oversight of School    Improving           Procurement and       Education            DPIEE, District
construction activities  Equitable Access   supervision of civil  Engineering Cell,   Offices, Community
works                 Education Planning    Mobilization
Department          Coordinator
Rationalization of      Improving          Enhance Secretary of    Secretary of       All Departments
Staffing and Staffmg    Institutional     Education's ability to    Education
policies                Capacity           carry out functions
and activities
efficiently and
effectively
Improving availability    Improving       Decisions made on the   Education Planning,   All Departments and
and use of information    Institutional   basis of timely,       EMIS, DPIEE.         district offices,
_   Capacity           accurate information   EEC/MTU              P&D
Improving working       Improving          Provision of additional  DPIEE and         District offices
conditions, tools       Institutional      supervisory staff     Educational
Capacity          (AEOs). vehicles,      Planning for
computers, etc.       procurement
Management Training    Improving          Training in            EEC/MTU              DPIEE, Educational
for Staff              Instimtional        supervision, use of                        Planning
Capacity          information, use of
computers, etc.
Formation of School     Improving         Improving parental     DPIEE with           District offices,
Committees              Community         involvement in school   technical assistance    Education Planning
Participation     management and                              Cell
maintenance



112
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Supervision
Primary responsibility for supervision arrangements would be with IDA's Resident
Mission in Pakistan. Program and project supervision would be conducted semi-annually,
with a full mission mounted only annually -- typically in April/May coinciding with the
budget approval cycle and the discussion of operational plans. IDA Headquarters would
provide supervision support on particular components of Bank-wide interest (such as the
development of the community schools program in the NA).
Annual supervision missions would: (i) require at least two weeks in the field; (ii)
require the services of specialists in education, school construction, management, finance,
and community participation; and (iii) review progress of program and project components,
as well as procurement, financial statements and disbursements, loan covenants and the
implementation of technical assistance. Specialized skill requirements would be added to the
missions according to the needs identified by previous supervision missions.
To aid the Pakistan Resident Mission in ongoing supervision tasks, funds have been
budgeted under the IDA credit for local consultants (third party) to assist in project
supervision tasks, including top supervision of construction. These consultants would be in
addition to consultants in procurement, disbursement, and accounting issues who would be
hired under the credit to train DOE staff in the setup and maintenance of systems acceptable
to IDA (budgeted separately). It is proposed that the same "third party" consultants might be
contracted to help on supervision of both the Northern Education and Northern Health
projects, resulting in some economies of scale with regard to travel, etc.
IDA supervision responsibilities would include those activities being carried out by
participating NGOs (including AKESP and AKRSP) as part of the project. Both supervision
and reporting arrangements in the NA would be made in tandem with DFID, so as to ensure
project cohesiveness and minimize the time burden on implementing agencies. DFID and
IDA would also coordinate with regard to approval of key technical assistance contracts and
appointments. Although the Government of Pakistan would be the legal Borrower under the
project, all parties involved in project implementation (including participating NGOs) would
be kept informed of any decisions by IDA pertaining to the project.



113
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
IDA MISSION SCHEDULE
Approx.                     Activity                  Staff
dates                                               Weeks
11/97    Project Launch/Initial Supervision        6
5/98    Annual Review mission                      4
11/98    Interim Review mission                    2
5/99    Annual Review mission                      4
11/99    Interim Review mission                    2
5/00    Mid-Term Review mission                    8
11/00    Interim Review mission                    2
5/01    Annual Review mission                      4
11/01    Interim Review mission                    2
5/02    Final Supervision mission/ICR mission 1/  6
1/ ICR: Implementation Completion Report



Pakistan
Northern Education Project
Azad Jammu & Kashmir and Northern Areas
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(PRs Million)
Improving Quality of Education   Increasing Equitable Access and  Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Curriculum              Support to Community Schools             Education                 Community Participation
& Education             Dangerous and Community                  Management Monitoring    Support to Establishment
Teacher Materials                 Shelterless   School         DOE       Information     &        Community   of School
Training    Dev.   Assessments     Schools    Construction   Strengthening   System  Evaluation     Schools   Committees    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
Construction                  58.2         7.8          -          406.4        370.2                                                                    842.6
Design and supervision         3.3          -           -            2.4          2.9                                                                      8.6
Subtotal         61.5        7.8           -         408.8        373.1              -          -           -            -            -   851.2
B. Vehicles                      16.9        1.6          -            3.8            -           30.4        0.1           -          1.4          1.5    55.7
C. Equipment                      7.7       0.8          0.3             -          4.0            7.6        6.3           -          0.2          0.2    27.0
D. Fumiture                      4.3         1.1          -           53.8         59.8            0.8        0.4           -            -         0.03    120.1
E. Books and Materials          22.3       27.3          1.5             -            -              -          -         0.2          0.5          0.6    52.5
F. Local Training
Trg. Officials/Proj. Staff     11.5       0.3        0.02              -            -            0.6        0.1         0.4          4.3          0.1     17.3
Trg. beneficiaries            34.4         1.7        3.3              -          9.6            7.1          -           -          0.8          1.2    58.1          _
Subtotal         45.9        2.0         3.3             -          9.6            7.7        0.1         0.4          5.1          1.2    75.4
G. Technical Assistance
International consultants      5.6        15.6       41.9            1.8            -           14.1          -        10.7          0.7            -    90.3
Local consultants              10.3       11.3        10.7          11.3            -           11.5        1.1         5.6          8.5          5.3    75.5
Subtotal         15.9       26.9        52.5          13.1            -           25.6        1.1        16.2          9.3          5.3   165.8
H. Fellowships                  30.3        6.8          7.5             -            -            7.1          -           -            -            -    51.7
1. Fund/Honorarium/Subsidies     2.4        2.9           -              -            -              -          -           -        153.2          0.2   158.7
Total InvestmentCosts            207.1       77.2        65.1          479.5        446.4           79.1        8.0        16.8        169.8          9.0  1,558.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries         43.2          -           -              -            -           58.3        4.5           -            -            -    105.9
B. TA/DA Allowances              0.3          -           -              -            -            5.8          -           -            -            -      6.0
C. Operations and Maintenance
Vehicles                       2.6        0.2           -            0.7            -            5.6       0.02           -            -          0.3      9.5
Building                       6.4          -           -              -            -              -          -           -         12.9          3.5    22.8
Equipment                        -          -           -              -            -            0.3        0.8           -            -            -      1.1
Subtotal         9.1        0.2           -            0.7            -            6.0        0.8           -         12.9          3.8    33.4
D. Operational Costs             2.4          -          0.6             -            -           41.8        0.2           -            -          0.4    45.4
Total Recurrent Costs             55.0        0.2         0.6            0.7            -          111.8        5.4           -         12.9          4.2   190.8
Total PROJECJr COSTS              262.1       77.4        65.8          480.1       446.4          190.9       13.4         16.8        182.8         13.2  1,748.9
Taxes                            9.7        4.4         7.3           42.7         37.3           6.3        0.1         2.2           1.1          0.7   111.8
Foreign Exchange                76.2       42.7        43.5           49.8         45.2           63.6       5.6          9.2         3&0           2.2   376.1         _



Pakistan
Northern Education Project
Azad Jammu & Kashmir
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(PRs Million)
Improving Quality of Education  Increasing Equitable Access and    Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Curriculum            Support to Community Schools             Education                 Community Participation
& Education            Dangerous an  Community                 Management Monitoring   Support to  Establishment
Teacher Materials               Shelterless    School        DOE       Information     &       Community   of School
Training    Dev.   Assessments    Schools   Construction   Strengthening   System  Evaluation    Schools   Committees      Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
Construction                     -        7.8          -         354.1            -              .         .           .            -            -    361.9
Design and supervision           -          -          -           2.2            -              -         -           -            -            -       2.2
Subtotal            -        7.8         -         356.3            -              -          -          -             -            -    364.1
B. Vehicles                       1.6        1.6         -             -            -           19.9         -           .            -           1.5     24.5
C. Equipment                      0.9        0.8         -             -            -            5.5        1.8          -            -           0.2      9.2
D. Furniture                       -         1.1         -          48.6            -            0.4         -           -            -          0.03     50.2
E. Books and Materials            7.1       17.7       1.4             -            -              -          -       0.03            -           0.6     27.0
F. Local Training
Trg. Officials/Proj. Staff      0.3        0.3         -             -            -            0.1        0.1          -             -          0.1      0.8
Trg.beneficiaries              19.6        0.3       3.3             -            -            7.1          -          -             -          1.2     31.4
Subtotal         19.8        0.5        3.3            -            -            7.2        0.1           -            -          1.2      32.2
G. Technical Assistance
Intemational consultants        3.6       13.6      15.3             -            -            7.1          -        6.6             -            -     46.1
Local consultants               5.1       5.1        4.4           4.0                         6.3        0.7        2.0             -          5.3     32.7
Subtotal          8.7       18.7       19.6          4.0            -           13.5        0.7         8.5            -          5.3      78.8
H. Fellowships                   14.0        6.8       7.5             -            -            3.4          -          -             -            -     31.7
1. Fund/Honorarium/Subsidies       -        2.9          -             -            -              -          -          -            -           0.2      3.1
Total Investment Costs             52.2       57.9      31.9         408.9            -           49.9        2.5        8.5             -          9.0    620.8
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries            -          -          -             -                        27.5        1.1          -             -            -     28.6
B. TA/DA Allowances                -          -          -3.5                                                 -                                     -       3.5
C. Operations and Maintenance
Vehicles                        0.3        0.2                                                 3.6          -          -             -          0.3       4.4
Building                                                               -          -                                     -                       3.5       3.5
Equipment                         -          -                                                 0.3        0.2                                     -       0.5
Subtotal          0.3        0.2          -            -            -            3.9        0.2           -            -          3.8       8.4
D. Operational Costs               -          -          -             -            -           10.2          -          -             -          0.4      10.7
Total Recurrent Costs               0.3        0.2                                                45.1        1.3           -                       4.2      51.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                52.4       58.2       31.9         408.9            -          95.0        3.9         8.5                      13.2    671.9
Taxes                            1.2        3.5        2.7          36.0            -            3.7       0.1         1.2            -          0.7      49.1
Foreign Exchange                22.6       34.0       20.6          39.5            -           33.4        1.6        5.6                        2.2    159.3
O Z



PAKISTAN
Northern Education Project
Northern Areas
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(PRs. Million)
Increasing Equitable Access  Strengthening Institutional Capacity
Improving Quality of Education  and to Community Schools               Education              Community Participation
Curriculum &          Dangerous an  Community                 Managemcnt Monitoring  Support to Establishment
Teacher Educ. Mats.            Shelterless   School         DOE       Information    &      Communit  of School
Training    Dev.   Assessments   Schools   Construction   Strengthening   System  Evaluation   Schools   Committees    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
Conshiuction                   58.2         -          -         52.3        370.2             -           -          -          -            -    480.7
Design and supervision         3.3          -          -          0.3          2.9             -           -          -          -            -      6.4
Subtotal         61.5         -          -         52.5        373.1             -           -          -          -            -    487.1
B. Vehicles                      15.3         -          -          3.8            -          10.5         0.1          -        1.4            -     31.2
C. Equipment                      6.8         -        0.3            -          4.0           2.1         4.5          -        0.2            -      17.8
D. Furniture                     4.3          -          -          5.2         59.8           0.3         0.4          -          -            -     69.9
E. Books and Materials           15.2       9.5        0.1            -            -             -           -        0.1        0.5            -     25.5
F. Local Training
Trg. Officials/Proj. Staff     11.2         -       0.02            -            -           0.5         0.1        0.4        4.3            -      16.5
Trg. beneficiaries             14.8        1.5         -            -          9.6             -           -          -        0.8            -     26.7
Subtotal         26.0        1.5      0.02            -           9.6          0.5         0.1        0.4         5.1           -      43.2
G. Technical Assistance
International consultants      2.0        2.0       26.6          1.8            -           6.9           -        4.1        0.7            -     44.2
Local consultants               5.2       6.2        6.3          7.3            -           5.2         0.4        3.6        8.5            -     42.7
Subtotal          7.2        8.2      32.9          9.1            -           12.1        0.4        7.7        9.3            -      86.9
H. Fellowships                   16.2         -          -            -            -           3.7           -          -          -            -      19.9
1. Fund/Honorarium/Subsidies     2.4          -          -            -            -             -           -          -      153.2            -    155.6
Total Investment Costs            154.9       19.3      33.3         70.6        446.4          29.3         5.4        8.2      169.8            -    937.2
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental Salaries         43.2          -          -            -            -          30.8         3.4          -          -            -      77.4
B. TA/DA Allowances              0.3          -          -            -            -           2.3           -          -          -            -       2.6
C. Operations and Maintenance
Vehicles                       2.4          -          -          0.7            -           2.0        0.02          -          -            -       5.1
Building                        6.4         -          -            -            -             -           -          -        12.9           -      19.4
Equipment                        -                                  -                          -         0.5          .-                      -       0.5
Subtotal          8.8         -          -          0.7            -           2.0         0.6          -        12.9           -      25.0
D. Operational Costs             2.4          -        0.6            -            -          31.6         0.2          -          -            -      34.8
Total Recurrent Costs              54.8         -        0.6          0.7            -          66.7         4.1          -        12.9           -    139.7
Total PROJECT COSTS               209.6       19.3       33.9         71.2        446.4          96.0         9.5        8.2      182.8            -  1,076.9
Taxes                            8.5        0.9        4.6          6.6         37.3           2.6         0.1        1.0        1.1            -     62.8
Foreign Exchange                53.7        88        22.9         10.3         45.2          30.2         4.0        3.6       380             -    216.7



PAKISTAN
Northern Education Project
Azad Jammu & Kashmir
Components Project Cost Summary
%    % Total
(PRs Million)             (US$ Million)        Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign Total       Local  Foreign Total    Exchange Costs
A. Improving Quality of Education
1. Teacher Training                         25.4   19.6   45.0           0.6    0.5    1.1         44       9
2. Curriculum & Education Materials Dev.     20.5   28.5    49.0         0.5    0.7    1.2          58      9
3. Assessments                                9.4   17.8   27.3          0.2    0.4    0.7          65      5
Subtotal           55.3   66.0   121.3         1.3    1.6    2.9          54     23
B. Increasing Equitable Access
and Support Community Schools
1. Dangerous and Shelterless Schools       275.9   29.1   305.0          6.6    0.7    7.3          10     58
2. Community School Construction                -      -       -           -      -      -           -       -
Subtotal          275.9   29.1   305.0         6.6    0.7    7.3          10     58
C. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1. DOE Strengthening                        51.7   28.8    80.5          1.2    0.7    1.9         36      15
2. Education Management Information System    1.9    1.2     3.2        0.05   0.03    0.1          38      1
3. Monitoring & Evaluation                    2.3    4.3     6.5         0.1    0.1    0.2          65      1
Subtotal           55.9   34.3    90.2         1.3    0.8    2.2          38      17
D. Community Participation
1. Support to Community Schools
2. Establishment of School Committees         9.1    1.8    10.9         0.2   0.04    0.3          17      2
Subtotal            9.1    1.8    10.9         0.2   0.04    0.3          17      2
Total BASELINE COSTS                          396.2  131.2   527.4         9.5    3.2   12.7          25    100
Physical Contingencies                       19.2    3.2    22.3         0.5    0.1    0.5          14      4
Price Contingencies                         97.3   25.0   122.2          0.6    0.2    0.7          22      6
Total PROJECT COSTS                           512.6  159.3   671.9        10.6    3.4   13.9          24    110
CD 



PAKISTAN
Northern Education Project
Northern Areas
Components Project Cost Summary
(PRs Million)            (US$ Million)           %     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total     Local Foreign  Total    Exchange  Costs
A. Improving Quality of Education
1. Teacher Training                          130.6   44.0   174.6       3.1     1.1    4.2          25      21
2. Curriculum & Education Materials Dev.       8.7    6.9   15.6        0.2    0.2    0.4           45       2
3. Assessments                                 9.7   20.1   29.8        0.2    0.5    0.7           67       4
Subtotal         148.9   71.0  220.0        3.6     1.7    5.3          32      26
B. Increasing Equitable Access
and Support Community Schools
1. Dangerous and Shelterless Schools         46.0    8.2   54.2         1.1    0.2    1.3           15       6
2. Community School Construction             288.6   32.5  321.1        6.9    0.8    7.7           10      38
Subtotal         334.6   40.7  375.3        8.0     1.0    9.0          11      45
C. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1. DOE Strengthening                         54.0   25.3   79.3         1.3    0.6    1.9           32       9
2. Education Management Information System     4.6    3.4    8.0        0.1    0.1    0.2           42       1
3. Monitoring & Evaluation                     3.7    2.9    6.6        0.1    0.1    0.2           44       1
Subtotal          62.3   31.6   94.0        1.5    0.8    2.3           34      11
D. Community Participation
1. Support to Community Schools              117.2   30.7   147.9       2.8    0.7    3.6           21      18
2. Establishment of School Committees                   -        -            -          -            -       -
Subtotal         117.2   30.7   147.9       2.8    0.7    3.6           21      18
Total BASELINE COSTS                           663.1   174.1  837.1      15.9    4.2   20.1           21      100
Physical Contingencies                       25.3    4.4   29.7         0.6    0.1    0.7           15       4
Price Contingencies                          171.8   38.3  210.1        1.0    0.2    1.3           20       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                            860.2  216.7  1,076.9     17.6    4.5   22.1           21      110
U'



119                                         ANNEX10
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
IDA Disbursement Schedule
Amounts      Cumulative              Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year           Disbursed    Disbursements    Disbursement  Disbursement
and Semester            (-------- US$ Million ----------)  Percentage   Profile
1998
1st (July 97 - December 97)       1.7              1.7              7%
2nd (January 98 - June 98)        1.7              3.4              15%           3%
1999
1 st (July 98 - December 98)     2.5               5.9             26%
2nd (January 99 - June 99)        2.5              8.4              37%           10%
2000
Ist (July 99 - December 99)      2.4              10.8             47%
2nd (January 2000 - June 2000)    2.4             13.2              58%           18%
2001
1st (July 2000 - December 2000)  2.8              16.0             70%
2nd (January 2001 - June 2001)    2.8              18.7             82%          34%
2002
1st (July 2001 - December 2001)  2.0              20.7             91%
2nd (January 2002 - June 2002)    2.0             22.8             100%           58%
2003
1st (July 2002 - December 2002)
2nd (January 2003 - June 2003)                                                    70%
2004
1st (July 2003 - December 2003)
2nd (January 2004 - June 2004)                                                    82%
2005
1st (July 2004 - December 2004)
2nd (January 2005 - June 2005)                                                    90%
2006
Ist (July 2005 - December 2005)                                                  100%
Closing Date: June 30, 2002



120
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 8
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance (TA)
A. Technical Assistance for the Quality Component
1.         The Northern Education project will support the efforts of the Directorate of Public
Instruction/Elementary Education (DPIEE) in AJK to improve quality through investments in teacher
education, curriculum development, and assessment systems and techniques. Short-term in-service
training has in the past been offered by the Educational Extension Center (EEC), whose operations
have lapsed due to lack of funding. The program will provide technical assistance to the EEC in
three areas: (a) developing institutional capacity to plan and manage INSET; (b) expertise in specific
INSET areas, like multigrade teaching-; (c) technical expertise for developing in-service courses for
educational managers and supervisors, in a newly created Management Training Unit.
2.         Development of locally-relevant textbooks and learning materials is the second focus of
the quality component. The Curriculum Research Development Center (CRDC) has already
undertaken the development of texts for grades 1-3, which are now in use throughout AJK. Work has
begun on grade 4 texts, but has been suspended for lack of funds. The program will provide
technical assistance to the CRDC to: (a) further strengthen its textbook development progress; (b)
develop multi-grade teaching materials; (c) strengthen research capacity; and (d) contribute technical
expertise in specific areas of curriculum and learning materials.
3.         The assessment of student learning in AJK, as elsewhere in Pakistan, rests almost
entirely on end-of-year exams constructed with a weak understanding of testing techniques. The
program will provide technical inputs in two dimensions of assessment: (a) development,
administration and analysis of a sample-based test of learning achievement among grade 4 students
and teachers, in Math and Urdu; (b) training in the meaning and use of continuous assessment
techniques by teachers and teacher educators. Both of these activities will be undertaken in the
CRDC, with outreach to the EEC and teacher training colleges as appropriate.
4.         Technical Assistance is also being sought in the same three broad areas related to quality
of education in the NA. In teacher training, TA will support the implementation of an innovative,
field-based teacher training program (FBTD), and will provide training in specific areas of teacher
education. TA for curriculum development includes assistance to create and conduct training
workshops for textbook writers and to assist in reviewing and in field-testing new textbooks. TA will
also contribute to the development of multi-grade materials and the development of a guide for low-
cost teaching materials. TA for assessment will be in two areas: design and administration of a
criterion-referenced achievement test, and training in continuous assessment.
B. Technical Assistance for the Equitable Access Component
5.         For the Directorate of Education (DOE) in the NA to be able to implement the NEP and
function as a qualified client vis-a-vis communities, other government agencies, and external



121
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 8
consultants in areas associated with planning and development educational infrastructure, it needs
initial help and support to develop planning tools, establish capacity in several professional fields and
administrative routines, and generally enhance professional skills in order for the staff to be able to
meet the challenge successfully. The NEP would support the effort of the DOE to expand and
improve its professional capacity to plan and implement educational infrastructure, primarily in the
context of the program but also with a view to a long-term impact on the Directorate's capacity in this
field. This will happen in the form of: a) a revision of current type designs for elementary schools;
b) design and initial execution of school mapping; and c) training for DOE site engineers and village
artisans.
6.         Revision of type designs. The Project would support the development of revised
standard designs for elementary schools. These new type designs should respond to the particular
constraints and demands of the NA and be developed on the basis of accumulated experience gathered
by government and private agencies involved in school construction in the area. The work would be
awarded to a group of reputed architects and engineers with a proven capability to develop
educational facilities suitable for construction in a rural mountainous context with seismic activity,
climatic extremes, a human resource base with limited skills, and a limited selection of building
material available.
7.         School Mappin . The development of a capacity within the DOE to collect and process
such data, known as school mapping, is seen as essential in order for the Directorate to be able to
plan future investments in educational infrastructure efficiently, and the project would therefore
support the required development of data collection and planning tools and training of staff needed for
the execution of the associated work routines. In the future, this task will be the responsibility of the
Planning Department which will be sufficiently strengthened in this respect. In order to assist the
DOE developing one of the most essential tools needed for educational planning, the school mapping,
the NEP will provide consultancy assistance for the formulation, design, and testing of a school
mapping tool at the very early stages of project implementation.
8.         Training in School Construction and School-based Maintenance. The training associated
with construction of school buildings in partnership with the communities in the NA has the following
target groups: a) DOE project management and site supervision; and b) artisans and other skilled
labor in the communities.
9.         In order for the DOE to be able to implement the construction component under the
NEP in partnership with the communities, it will need to take on new technical staff in the Directorate
and contract field staff to be part of the community dialogue and to supervise construction
implementation. This staff will need to be trained in operating a system for monitoring and reporting
of construction progress, material consumption, expenditure, and quality control; and in working with.
community-based organizations. The consultancy shall assist the DOE in building its technical
capacity in these areas. This target group would include: One Senior Engineer; one Architect, and 15
site engineers and field coordinators. The actual construction on site would be carried out by artisans
and skilled labor from the villages where the schools are to be built. They would be nominated for
training by the community and selected by the DOE and the consultant in common and provided
training in specific aspects of skilled labor directly related to the construction of the standard type
school buildings built by the project. At later stages, the trained group of builders would themselves



122
ANNEX 1 1
Page 3 of 8
function as master builders and trainers on other building sites. This target group would include a
total of 210 artisans from each of the following trades: masons, steel binders, carpenters, and 90
artisans each working as: painters, plumbers, and electricians.
10.        In AJK, the following support will be provided in addition to the construction of school
buildings: a) consultant support for a revision of the current standard type designs for primary
schools buildings; and b) consultant support for the formulation and testing of a school mapping
activity. The objective of the revision to the standard school design will be to develop type designs
which are responsive to the climate variations, are functionally efficient, need a minimum of
maintenance, and are cost-effective. The scope of work should include the development of a design
for a simple sanitary unit suitable for construction in environments with little experience in the use
and maintenance of modern sanitary facilities. In view of the limited experience with school
mapping and the associated physical planning process in the Planning Department of AJK, consultant
support will be provided. The objective of the support is to train and help the technical staff in the
Department in the use of collected data in the planning process associated with the identification of
school sites and deployment of teaching space. The input from the consultant will be made available
in two parts connected with the annual planning cycle.
C. Technical Assistance for the Institutional Strengthening Component
11.         Services of national consultants, one for supervision, monitoring and evaluation and the
second for accounting, procurernent and disbursement matters will be provided to the DOE in NA.
The consultants will help the DOE develop supervisory practices, evaluation systems, procurement,
accounting and disbursement procedures. The consultant for supervision/monitoring and evaluation
would work with the AD (Curriculum and Materials Development), AD (Teacher Training and
Supervision), AD (Examination and Assessment), AD (Monitoring and Evaluation) in DOE and
DDEOs/AEOs in the districts who are counterparts of these three ADs. National consultants would
also work with other consultants working on teacher training, examination, assessment, curriculum
and materials development. The consultant for Accounting! procurement/disbursement would work in
conjunction with AD (Procurement), AD (B&A/Disbursement) and their counterparts in the districts.
12.        In AJK, institutional capacity will be strengthened by supporting the DPI(EE) with the
following TA: a) an international consultant and two local consultants to develop management
systems, procedures for procurement, disbursement, M&E, keeping records, filing system, develop
necessary instruments and software packages to be used by the officers at Department level, DPI
level, district level and below district, EEC and CRDC and to train the staff in the use of these
packages; and b) study tours of selected persons from the DPI and district offices; and c) training of
DPI staff in computer skills.
13.        In addition, services of national consultants will be required to strengthen the EMIS
system in both areas. Consultants will help conduct information needs analyses, prepare
questionnaires for data collection, train computer and data entry staff, develop training materials for
data collection and decision making, and so on. The ultimate aim would be that the EMIS becomes a
timely source of basic planning information.



123
ANNEX I I
Page 4 of 8
D. Technical Assistance for the Community Participation Component
14.        In the NA, the community participation component will benefit from the experience of
AKRSP and AKESP. These AKDN organizations will be involved as follows: a) AKESP will
provide assistance in the FBTD program and the Community School Development Project; and b)
AKRSP will develop and deliver training workshops for AEOs and other DOE staff.
15.        The project will provide foreign and national technical assistance to the DOE for the
further development of the community schools program. The foreign technical assistance will be a
specialist in community school finance issues. The consultant will work in conjunction with a
planned visit by two local finance consultants under the AKESP's implemented Community School
Development Project. The DOE consultant would pay particular attention to the wider financial
issues currently facing the community schools program as a whole. Although the Northern Areas are
experimenting with the establishment of community schools on a much wider scale than many
provinces, there are other experiences with community schools within Pakistan that might prove
useful in the future development of the community school program. The project will support study
tours to different parts of Pakistan (Karachi, Balochistan, and NWFP) for DOE and AKESP staff
involved in the community school program.
16.        Given the relative lack of experience with community mobilization techniques within the
Department of Education of AJK, technical assistance in this area will be an important factor in the
success of the proposed program. An NGO or a private firm with extensive experience in community
mobilization would be most appropriate for such an assignment. The technical assistance would
consist primarily of a coordinator for community participation activities with a strong background in
training and social mobilization initiatives. The community mobilization coordinator would be
expected to d.ivide his/her time between on-site training of AEOs and school committees in the pilot
district, and wider education efforts and reporting functions at the level of the DPIEE (for example,
the arrangement of two study tours for policy makers and DPIEE and district staff to look at
community mobilization efforts elsewhere in Pakistan).
E. Monitoring of Technical Assistance
17.        The effective use of technical assistance is expected to have a significant impact on
overall project performance and longer-term sustainability issues. Given this fact, monitoring of the
technical assistance itself would form part of regular DOE annual reviews and IDA and DFID
supervision responsibilities. Moreover, the project Mid-Term Review would include a more detailed
examination of the role and performance of technical assistance under the project. While the
evaluation of technical assistance, particularly that geared to building institutional capacity, tends to be
fairly subjective in nature, some suggestions are made below for indicators/questions to be addressed
as part of both the annual and Mid-Term Reviews.



124
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 8
General Indicators (across components)
Type of TA          Indicator           Baseline            Target               Source(s)
All                 TA contracted on    Annual plans        100% of contracts   Responsible
time                                    planned              agency (DOE)
reporting
directors
All                TA work              Annual plans        100% of contracts   DOE reporting
_________________  completed on time                         planned/completed   directors
All                Procedures (formal  Annual plans         100% of contracts   DOE reporting
or informal) are in                     initiated            directors
place in DOE for
regular review of
TA work
Medium to long-    Contracts require    Annual plans        100% of relevant    DOE reporting
term institutional   the contractor to                      contracts entered    directors; staff
development TA      produce as part of                      into during year     responsible for
workplan: (a) a                                              procurement
timeline and goals                                           procedures.
for specific skills
transfer; and (b) an
"exit" plan.
Training            Participants        Participant self-   100% of trainings    Participant
consider training   assessment; DOE     during year          evaluation forms;
useful, and are     reporting director                       DOE reporting
actively applying   assessment                               directors'
skills/knowledge                                             assessment;
selected interviews
with participants
_________________                                   _post-training
Short-term TA       Product             Annual Plans         100% of relevant    DOE reporting
with concrete      satisfactory and in                      contracts            directors; others
product(s)          use                                     completed during    as appropriate (i.e
year                teachers on new
._______________                   school designs)



125
ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 8.
Issues/Questions for Midterm Review of Technical Assistance Input
Quality Component
(a) Teacher Training
(i) College-Based training: what percent of teacher trainers (by own assessment) are
actively using new skills/knowledge;
(ii) In-service Training: are DOE/EEC staff actively involved in developing in-service
courses?;
(b) Curriculum Development
(i) is there identified pool of local authors able to develop quality textbooks?
(ii) are DOE/CRDC staff able to: plan/direct/implement the development of materials?
(c) Assessment
(i) was the administration of sample-based learning achievement test to 4th graders in
math and Urdu completed during first year of project? Were results widely disseminated
and discussed (in DOE meetings, seminars, etc)?
(ii) is there a broad understanding among DOE academic staff, teacher trainers and
classroom teachers exposed to training of the goals and methods of continuous
assessment?;
Expanding Equitable Access
(a) School Designs:
(i) were these revised and are they in use? What is opinion of them by: engineers;
commnunities; teachers; students?
(b) School Mapping:
(i) was school mapping done? On time?
(ii) is the information collected being incorporated into regular data collection
procedures? Are DOE staff able to manipulate data base? Is information widely
available? Is it being used? How?
(c) Training:



126
ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 8
(i) in the NA, are trained local artisans able to do an adequate job in the community
school construction program?
Institutional Development
(a) Administrative Procedures and Supervision
(i) does the DOE have functioning procurement, accounting, monitoring and
disbursement procedures in place, understood by DOE staff?
(ii) were job descriptions developed for all positions, and are staff evaluated on the basis
of defined responsibilities?
(iii) how do AEOs currently view supervision responsibilities? Have guidelines for
supervision been developed? Distributed? Are they used? When and how?
(b) EMIS
(i) was information needs analysis conducted? Were data collection procedures revised?
Are new procedures understood by DOE staff at all levels? Is information accessible
and used for making decisions at different levels of the system?
(c) Training, Fellowships, Study Tours
(i) are DOE staff (by own assessment) actively using experience and skills? Are they
able to articulate specific lessons/instances of use?
Increasing Community Participation
(a) Training of AEOs:
(i) in both the NA and AJK, are AEOs able to conduct trainings of community based
organizations across a range of subjects, including school based maintenance, financial
management, etc.? How many trainings have been done? What do community groups
think of AEO trainings? What are AEO opinions about the role of communities in
school management? Do they think their own opinions have changed? If so, how?
(b) Development of programs
(i) are there written guidelines concerning (in the NA) the workings of the community
schools program; and (in AJK) the roles and responsibilities of school committees? Are
these widely known?
(ii) in NA -- has a long term plan for financial sustainability/support to community
schools been developed? Has it been widely discussed?



PAKISTAN
Northern Education Project
Azad Jammu & Kashmir and Northern Areas
Technical Assistance and Training /a
National Consultant  International Consultant  Fellowships           Total
Months   $ '000      Months    $ '000      Months   $ '000     Months  $ '000
A. Improving Quality of Education
1. Teacher Training                             36    219.3            6      123.4         31    638.5         73    981.2
2. Curriculum & Education Materials Dev.         55    238.7          16      334.5         22    149.7         93    722.8
3. Assessments                                   53    230.6          44      910.8          6    162.3        103  1,303.7
Subtotal              144    688.5          66   1,368.7          59    950.5       269  3,007.8
B. Increasing Equitable Access
and Support Community Schools
1. Dangerous and Shelterless Schools            110    245.3           2      40.3           -        -        112    285.7
2. Community School Construction                 -         --                                -        -         .0      0.0
Subtotal             110    245.3            2      40.3           0       0.0       112    285.7
C. Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1. DOE Strengthening                            59    245.8           15     308.9          18    151.0         92    705.8
2. Education Management Infornation System        6     24.6           -         -           -        -          6     24.6
3. Monitoring & Evaluation                       24    111.4           12     215.9          -        -         36    327.3
Subtotal              89    381.8           27      524.8         18    151.0        134  1,057.7
D. Community Participation
1.SupporttoCommunitySchools                    216    285.7            1       15.5          -        -       216    301.2
2. Establishment of Education Committees                   -           -         -                    -          0      0.0
Subtotal             216    285.7            1       15.5          0       0.0       216    301.2
Total                     558   1,601.4          96   1,949.4          77   1,101.6      731  4,652.3
a/ TA also includes substantial training activities.
xOO-
0 _



128                               ANNEX 12
Page lof 12
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Accounting. Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
L     Project Financial Management Reports
Summary tables on sources and uses of funds, cost variance by project activities, unit
variance and contract expenditure will be submitted to IDA on a quarterly basis by the
Directorate of Education (DOE) of the NA and the Directorate of Public Instruction
Elementary Education (DPIEE) of AJK. The following summnary tables are shown in this
Annex:
1. Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds - NA
2. Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds - AJK
3. Cost Variance Report by Project Activities - NA
4. Cost Variance Report by Project Activities - AJK
5. Unit Variance Report (critical activities) - NA
6. Unit Variance Report (critical activities) - AJK
7. Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works) - NA
8. Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works) - AJK
9. Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants) - NA
10. Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants) - AJK
The summary tables above imply that both NA and AJK will have arrangements to
properly record physical inputs and cost information, procurement information, etc. for each of the
project components on a monthly basis. In addition to these tables, tables of Monitoring
Indicators for Project Objectives (for each of the areas) would be required (Annex 6). General
indicators for Monitoring of Technical Assistance have also been agreed with the Government
(Annex 11).
2.    Provisions for Accounting/Disbursement/Procurement Staff
Appropriate positions for strengthening financial management in the project
implementing agencies (DOE and DPIEE) have been agreed. These staff will be in charge of
accounts keeping, procurement matters, disbursement and progress reporting. In the
Northern Areas the position of Planning, Development and Monitoring Director has been agreed.
This position will be supported by an Assistant Director (Planning), an Assistant Director (Project
Monitoring), an Accountant (Procurement) and an Assistant Accounts Officer (Budget, Accounts
and Disbursement). In Azad Janmu and Kashmir, the project provides for a Deputy Director for
Elementary Education Development and Program Implementation to be assisted by an Assistant
Director (Procurement and Disbursement) and a Budget Officer. The identified accounting and
financial staff will be competent and conversant in Bank's procurement and disbursement policies
and procedures.



129                               ANNEX 12
Page.2 of 12
3.     Technical Assistance and Training
A provision for strengthening financial management through technical assistance and
training for a total of 252 person/months has also been agreed for both areas (Annex 7).
Given limited institutional capacity, technical assistance and training will be provided to staff on
accounting/disbursement and procurement matters. Details are as follows:
Technical Assistance and Training in Management,        AJK            NA
Accounting, Procurement                                (person/     (person/
and Disbursement                                       months)       months)
1. International Consultants
(a) Set-up management systems                                  8             7
2. National Consultants
(a) Supervision                                               10             9
(b) ProcurementVDisbursement/Accounting                       16            30
(c) Management and TA                                         12            30
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation                                 18            12
3. Staff Development Training                                 18            82
Sub-totals for each area       82           170
PROJECT TOTAL:   252 person/months
4.     Auditor Acceptable to the Bank
The Auditor General of Pakistan (AGP) is acceptable to the Bank and will be used to audit
the project financial accounts, SOEs and procurement documentation. The AGP has been accepted
under SAPP to validate recruitment, selection of sites, etc.
5.     Other Implementation Arrangements
These include: (a) overall program and policy directions, annual plans and budgets agreed at a
high level Program Steering Committee (which include not only the line agencies but also
representatives from Planning and Development and the Finance Departments; (b) Project
Inplementation Committees within the Departments of Education to coordinate planning and
implementation, monitor progress and resolve issues related to project implementation; and (c)
detailed annual planning with donors (in terms of activities, budget requirements, reform measures
to be implemented and so on ) based on progress during the previous year.



Quarterly
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
Northern Areas
PAKISTAN- Northern Education Project
as at _, l9xx
in applicable currency
Actual    _                     Pared Expenditure                        V variance          |          SAR
Current     Year-To    Cumulative  Current      Year-To     Cumtdative   current    Year-To    cumulative         life of
Quarter      Date      To-Date                   Date        To-Date     Quarter     Date       To-Date            Project
Project Financing
Govemment Funds
IDA Funds
DFID
Community                                                                                                                                                                             0
Total Financing
Project Expenditures
Civil Works
Goods'
Technical Assistance2
Grants (Comm. Schools)
Other'
Total Expenditure                                                                                                                                   _
Table I
' Includes vehicles, equipment, furniture and Books and materials
2Includes consultants and training
3 Includes salaries and operational costs                                             
U



Quarterly
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
Azad Jammu and Kashmir
PAKISTAN-Northern Education Project
as at              , l9xx
in applicable currency
Actual                         Planned Expenditure                     Vanance                       SAR
Current    Year-To    Cunulative  Cuifent      Year-To     Cumulative  Current    Year-To    Couinlative        Life of
_________ Quarber  Date  To-Date  Quarter       Date        To-Date     Quter       Date      To-Date   _       Project
Project Financing
Government Funds
IDA Funds
Community
Total Financing                                                                 .               .                                                     .
Project Expenditures
Civil Works
Goods
Technical Assistance
Other
Total Expenditure                        -                  _                                        -. ,
Table 2
r>
CD
0    k



Quarterly
Cost Variance Report
Northern Areas
PAKISTAN-Northern Education Project
as at               ,l9xx
in applicable currency
_________  Actual                _  _  _ __PandExpenditure   __ _ _ _     _ _  _ _    Vaiance                         SAR
Nroject Atvities               Current     Year-To    Cumulative   Current      Year-To      Cumnulative  Current     Year-To    Cunulative           Life of
_Quarter     Date      To-Date      Quarter        Date        To-Date     Quater       Date       To-Date            Project
A. IMproving Quality Of EducatIon          _ 
1. Teader Training
2. Cumiculum & Education Materials
Dev.
3. Assessments
b Increasing Equitable Access and
Support Conununity Schools
1. Dangerous and Shelterless Schools
2. Community School Construction
C. Strengthening Institutional
Capacity
1. DOE Strengthening
2. Education Management Infonnation
System
3. Monitoring & Evaluation
D. Conununty Participation
1. Support to Community Schools
Total Proec Expendlture                                                                                                                                 _ _
Table 3
C D
ot-



Quarterly
Cost Variance Report
Azad Jammu and Kashmir
PAKISTAN-Northern Education Project
as at _,19xx
in applicable currency
Actual                          Paed Expenditure          |              Vanance             r         SAR
Project Activities            Current     Year-To    CumTDative  Current      Year-To     Cumulative   Cuarent    Year-To    Cumulative          Life of
__________________________u_eer            Date      To-Date                    Date       To-Date      uatr        Date      To-Date            Project
A. Improving Quality of Education
1. Teacher Training
2. Cuniculum & Education Materials
Dev.
3. Assessments
h. Increasing Equitable Access and
Support Community Schools
1. Dangerous and Shelterless Schools
C. Strengthening Institutional
Capacity
1. DOE Strengthening
2. Education Management Information
System
3. Monitoring & Evaluation
D. Community Participation
-. Establishment of Education
Comm ittees__                                                                            _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _   __  _ _  _  _ _  _ _ __          _ _  _ _
Total Project Expenditure                                                                                                                          _
Table 4
- _



Quarterly
Unit Variance Report
Northern Areas
PAKISTAN-Northern Education Project
as at _,19xx
in applicable currency
Actual                            Planned Expenditure                     Variance                     SAR              Unit Code
Project Activities             Units      Unit Cost   Cumulative      Units       Unit Cost     Cumulative    Cumulative   Cumulative      Project     Total Cost
To-Date                                   To-Date       To-Date      To-Date        Units
(Cost)      (Units)                  .
1. Increasing Equitable Access and
Support to Community Schools
(a) Construction of new schools
(b) Reconstruction of schools
2. Improving Quality of Education
(a) Field Based Teacher Training
(i) Government-run
(ii) AKDN-run                                                                                                                                                                     _
Table 5
CD 



Quarterly
Unit Variance Report
Azad Jammu and Kashmir
PAKISTAN-Northerm Education Project
as at              , 19xx
in applicable currency
.__________    Actual   __I_lanned_Expenditure                                            Variance                    SAR               Unit Code
Project Activities             Units      Unit Cost   Cunulative      Units       Unit Cost     Cumulative    Cumulative   Cumulative      Project    Total Cost
To-Date                                  To-Date       To-Date       To-Date        Units
_________  __________                             (Cost)       ~~~~~~~~  ~ ~~~(Units)   _ _ _ _ _
1. Increasing Equitable Access and
Support to Conmunity Schools
(a) Reconstruction of Dangerous
schools
(b) Construction of Shelterless
schools,
2. Improving Quality of Educktlon
(a) IC Trainin                                                                                                                                                                             _ 
(b) Multigrade Training
(a) Ist Inset Module
(d) 2nd Inset Module               .
Table 6
I!
O m



Quarterly
Contract Expenditure Report
Goods and Works (for contracts above prior review threshold)
Northern Areas
PAKISTAN-Northern Education Project
as at _,19xx
Contract                    Contract Number         Supplies          Nationality         Zip Code          Contract Value          Amount           Amount Paid to
Descriptionl                                                                                  ifU.S.                              Invoiced to date          date
Equipment
International Competitive Bidding
National Competitive Bidding
National Shopping
To Be Determined
Cvil Works
National Shopping
National Competitive Bidding
Dired Contracting
Table 7
>
CD
\w0  1
o 



Quarterly
Contract Expenditure Report
Goods and Works (for contracts above prior review threshold)
Azad Jammu and Kashmir
PAKISTAN-Northern Education Project
as at _,19xx
Contract                    Contract Number        Supplies           Nationality         Zip Code         Contract Value           Amount           Amount Paid to
Description/i                                                                                if U.S.                              Invoiced to date          date
Equipment
International Competitive Bidding
National Competitive Bidding
National Shopping
To Be Determined
Civil Works
National Shopping
National Competitive Bidding
Direct Contracting
Table 8
A >
t S



Quarterly
Contract Expenditure Report
Consultants (for contracts above prior review threshold)
Northern Areas
PAKISTAN-Northem Education Project
as at _,19xx
Contract Description   Contract Number           Consultant            Nationality         Zip Code if U.S.       Contract Value      Amount Invoiced to date       Amount
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   P aid     to   date
Quality and Cost-
Based Selection
Qualifications
00
Individual
Single-Source
Selection
Table 9



Quarterly
Contract Expenditure Report
Consultants (for contracts above prior review threshold)
Azad Jammu and Kashmir
PAKISTAN-Northern Education Project
as at             , 19xx
Contract Description   Contract Number         Consultant           Nationality         Zip Code if U.S.      Contract Value     Amount Invoiced to date       Amount
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _PPa dd tto ddat
Quality and Cost-
Based Selection
Qualifications
Individual
Single-Source
Selection_._.
Table 10
m 



140
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 6
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. Returns to Education
1.         It is well established internationally that education contributes to improvements in
nutritional levels and child health and to lower fertility. In addition, education contributes to growth
in incomes by raising productivity and to greater equality. Research for the World Bank's 1991
World Development Report suggests that increasing the average amount of education of the labor
force by one year, when this average is three years or less, raises aggregate real output by 9 percent.
2.         Difficulties with data collection and information for the NA and AJK, lack of data on
earnings in these regions and problems in valuing the broader social benefits that would accrue with
the NEP project, make formal cost-benefit and rates of return analyzes very difficult. However, rates
of return to schooling in Pakistan can be used as a proxy (Table 1). These rates are consistent with
other studies which indicate that: a) primary education has a highest rate (private and social) and
should be therefore the priority investment (a rate of return of 13 percent-the social rate for primary
education in Pakistan-implies that, with reinvestments, assets can be doubled in less than 6 years); b)
the returns decline with the level of schooling; and c) the private returns are higher than the social
returns. In sum, social and private rates of return for schooling suggest that investments in primary
education have high returns in Pakistan (Behrman, 1995).
Table 1. Rates of Return to Schooling in Pakistan (1975)
(%)
Primary         Secondary        Tertiary
Private                  20.0               11.0             27.0
Social                    13.0               9.0              8.0
Source: Psacharopoulos (1994). "Social" rates of return include private and
public costs (but not social benefits beyond private benefits).



141
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 6
3.          Pakistan has foregone substantial economic growth because of the low schooling in
general, the low schooling of females in particular, too great concentration, of schooling at tertiary
rather than basic primary and secondary levels, and generally low schooling quality. As mentioned
above, beyond the economic productivity effects of schooling, there are important benefits--
particularly of female schooling--on health and nutrition, mortality and fertility. The total estimated
values of these benefits alone (ignoring economic benefits) exceed recurrent costs of basic schooling
of females (Behrman, 1995). Summers (1992) estimates the "net social benefits" of increasing
schooling in Pakistan in terms of mortality and births averted that suggest total discounted benefits
exceed recurrent costs. He states "it seems reasonable to conclude that the return to getting more
girls into school is in excess of 20 percent and may well be considerable greater...'.
4.         In addition, data from the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (1991) confirm the
results above and suggest that education has an important effect on, inter alia: a) fertility levels, both
through increased use of family planning and delayed marriage; b) incidence of disease and
immunization; and c) children's school attendance. In Pakistan, the number of children born is
inversely related to both wife and husband's levels of education. Uneducated women give birth to an
average of 4.6 children, in contrast to 3.7 for women with primary education and 3.1 for women with
secondary education. Eighty one percent of children 5 years old and below with primary education
mothers were immunized, against only 70 percent of children with uneducated mothers. The
incidence of child diarrhea is lower for children born to educated mothers (particularly female
children). Finally, mother's education is an important predictor of school attendance: children of
educated women are equally likely to be in school, regardless of gender. In sum, education of girls
seems attractive compared with most alternative investments.
B. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
5.          The overall aim of the NEP project is to improve quality and access of elementary
education, especially of female students. The design and preparation of the project were aimed at
developing the most cost-effective approach to achieving these objectives. In both NA and AJK,
where the needs are very basic and the system is rudimentary, the project would focus on improving
participation in schools, increasing learning achievements and improving the capacity to run the
system properly. The project proposes the most cost-effective package of investments in physical
infrastructure, teacher education, development of instructional materials and improved institutional
capacity, for the conditions of the north. A few examples of the different alternatives analyzed are
presented below.
6.          School construction. rehabilitation and maintenance. In order to achieve overall cost
efficiency and long term sustainability, construction under the project will be implemented with the
active participation of the beneficiary communities. In the NA, the Directorate of Education will
adopt a self-help strategy and work in partnership with the communities for the construction of their
schools. In AJK, the reconstruction of dangerous and building of shelterless schools will be done in
conjunction with the formation of school committees in the pilot district.
7.          The self-help strategy is based on a partnership agreement between the government and
the community, and has proven to have economic as well as social advantages. Benefits include
better quality construction and the resultant savings that accrue to both government and communities,
as well as greater willingness on the part of the community to maintain their assets. The alternative



142
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 6
of utilizing the Public Works Department (PWD) for the school construction activities was rejected.
PWD is a government institution following rigid rules and procedures. In the case of school
construction, these procedures often fail to produce expected quality, on time, and at a justifiable
cost. Moreover, the PWD approach does not include community strategies and is very reluctant to
involve the user in the implementation process. In Table 2, the costs of a three-room school building
of sq. ft. 1,800, constructed by three different modalities are assessed. It would cost the government
Rs.833,000 and Rs.808,000, if the PWD or private contractors are used in school construction.
School construction with the self-help model would cost the government Rs.645,000, or about 21
percent less than the PWD/contractors alternative.
Table 2. School Construction Costs (Rs. '000)
PWD       Private contractor        Self-help model
Institution Cost Share       833               808                    645
Community Cost Share           -                -                     276
Total Unit Cost              833               808                    921
The community input will vary with the different types of structures, location and so
on (here it is calculated at 30 percent). The cost level is an average, based on a
location with easy access. It includes boundary, walls and sanitary units.
Source: Aga Khan Housing Board, PWD and mission estimates.
8.         The participatory construction process will have additional costs and benefits.
Construction in partnership with communities will, in some cases, take slightly longer time than if
implemented through a commercial contractor. In order to secure quality, it will also require training
of the community labor. This reduced cost savings can be justified because community involvement
will invariably establish a feeling of ownership and responsibility. The community will look after the
building after the construction. It will be much easier to establish a maintenance routine under such
circumstances than in cases where the work had been done by outsiders, without involvement of the
local people. By involving local artisans in construction, technical skills and knowledge would be
transferred and there would always be qualified people available to undertake the schools repair work
beyond regular maintenance.



143
ANNEX 13
Page 4 of 6
9.         In view of the fact that the Civil Engineering Cell of the Department of Education of
AJK dos not have any experience with community participation, the participatory approach to
construction will be different than in the NA. As has been the pattern in the past, communities would
be asked to donate the land for the construction of shelterless schools. In addition, construction will
follow the formation of school committees in the pilot district. The organized school committee will
oversee the construction process and will be in charge of ongoing maintenance of the newly
constructed school.
10.        Teacher Training. The project is also focusing on improving the teaching and learning
processes, in particular the quality of the teaching staff. In the NA, a large part of the investments in
teacher training is in the construction and staffing of two General Colleges of Elementary Training
(GCET) for women, which are badly needed, and in quality improvements at the male college. These
investments will create institutions which last long beyond the life of the project, providing a much-
needed service to the area.
11.        The other major investment in teacher training in the NA is in Field Based Teacher
Development (FBTD). This program is a model of cost-effective training for areas with great need.
It requires no investment in facilities, as it is conducted in existing schools and district offices.
Recurrent costs per training average $750, inclusive of salaries for substitute teachers and materials
which teachers bring back to their schools. The effectiveness of FBTD lies not only in its modest
cost, but in its intensive focus on practical skills. Half of the four-month training period is spent in
supervised teaching. With two Master Trainers supervising only 10 students, teacher trainees receive
far more effective guidance than in the standard, college-based practicum. Because of the low trainee
to trainer ratio, Master Trainers are also able to assist individual trainees in overcoming individual
weaknesses in content areas. Finally, the expansion of FBTD will also expand the pool of Master
Trainers, individuals who will go on to play key roles in the educational system of the NA. Their
own training, and the experience that they gain supervising teacher trainees in actual classrooms will
ensure that the administrative staff of the education system is in touch with the real needs of its
teaching force.
12.        In AJK, the project will focus on the institutionalization of an in-service teacher training
program (INSET) through the EEC as a means for knowledge and skills upgrading.' INSET courses
are very modest in overall cost, with recurrent costs averaging well under Rs. 1,000 per trainee,
including the provision of materials. If done well, INSET can provide an enormous boost to quality
in the teaching/learning process. The effectiveness of INSET rests fundamentally on the quality of
the course and its relevance to teachers. Thus, the program supports improved capacity in the EEC
for determining teacher needs and training and TA to strengthen technical expertise.
13.        Community Schools Program. Several alternatives for increasing equitable access were
considered during project preparation. Recent research in Pakistan confirmed that many private and
NGO-run schools outperform government schools both in terms of student retention and achievement
levels, often despite a much lower level of per-student expenditure. Reasons for these results are
1 Support for four of AJK's 10 teacher training colleges was cut from the project post-appraisal in light of
overall cuts to the project. It is hoped that support for quality improvements and rationalization of AJK's pre-
service teacher training may be included under SAP.



144
ANNEX 13
Page 5 of 6
varied, but include evidence that teachers' attendance in private and NGO schools is more regular,
and that teachers tend to be more motivated. Increased parental involvement in school management
issues (whether in government or non-government schools) also appears to have a positive effect on
enrollment, teacher accountability, and ultimately on student achievement. Given this evidence, the
Bank in recent sector work has encouraged the Government to work in partnership with the private
sector, NGOs, and local communities as potentially the most cost-effective strategy for improving and
expanding educational opportunities.2 The project's support to the NA administration's community
schools program is very much in line with these recommendations.
14.        Faced with a large and growing unmet demand for primary education, the basic choice
facing the government (and the project) is whether to try to expand access to schooling through
traditional or more experimental means. The "traditional" method of expanding access in the NA has
normally involved getting authorization and a budget for a building, waiting (sometimes years) for the
building to be completed, and fighting for the authorization of a teaching post before the school could
officially be opened.3 Frustrated with the bureaucratic obstacles and delays associated with the
traditional method, the government in 1994 began exploring an alternative in the form of subsidies to
community-run schools. Because the program did not initially involve construction (communities
donated space for the school) or additional posts (the communities hired teachers according to
government guidelines), it had a significant advantage in getting children into schools much faster
than the traditional method.
15.        Community schools are also cheaper (at least to the government) than traditional
government schools, although how much cheaper is difficult to tell given the newness of the program
and the need to make and evaluate adjustments to the levels of government subsidy. As of 1994-95,
the estimated level of yearly-per-student recurrent expenditure for government primary schools in the
NA was Rs. 1,227. In contrast, in 1995-96, given the levels of enrollment and subsidy to community
schools, the per-student expenditure is approximately Rs.350. This level of per-student expenditure is
clearly unreasonably low, however, if a minimum standard of quality is to be maintained. Under the
project, it is proposed to increase the level of funding to community schools such that the yearly per-
student expenditure would be approximately Rs. 790--still significantly less than that of regular
government schools, but sufficient to ensure a reasonable level of quality inputs.4
16.        With regard to the effectiveness of community schools versus traditional schools in
retaining and imparting learning to students, it is also probably too early in the program's life to
come to any firm conclusions. Clearly there need to be substantial investments in quality
improvements in both types of schools. As indicated above, however, evidence from other parts of
2 See Improving Basic Education in Pakistan--Community Participation. System Accountability, and Efficiency.
World Bank, 1995 (forthcoming in grey cover).
3 Until 1995, no additional teaching posts had been authorized for the NA since 1986.
4 Cost-effectiveness analysis should also look at the level of contribution of parents to the schooling of children,
in both community and traditional schools as part of the overall cost. Reliable data are, however, lacking, although
it may be presumed that the level of community/parental contribution may be higher in the case of community
schools.



145
ANNEX 13
Page 6 of 6
Pakistan indicates that where parents and communities are more involved in their children's
schooling, both enrollment and achievement levels tend to be higher. If the same is assumed to hold
true in the Northern Areas, then it seems reasonable to expect that, on average, community schools
will prove to be as or more effective a means of schooling than traditional government schools.



146                              ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
NORTHERN EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents in Proiect File
I. Government of Northern Areas (NA) Documents
Directorate of Education, NA. PC- I Northern Education Project. Northern Areas. 1996-2002.
NA, Pakistan, 1996.
Directorate of Education, NA. A Report on Northern Areas Education Project Identification
Work shop. NA, Pakistan, 1995.
Directorate of Education, NA. Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Conducted by Four Valleys
Engineering Consultants, NA, Pakistan, 1996.
Directorate of Education, NA. School Mapping Studv. Conducted by Four Valleys Engineering
Consultants, NA, Pakistan, 1996.
Government of NA. Social Action Programme Progress Report 1996-97 Alongwith Operational
Plan 1997-98 and SAPII Strategic Five-Year Rolling Plan 1997-98 to 2001-02. NA, Pakistan,
1997.
Directorate of Education, NA. Statistical Compilation of Educational Data of Government and
Private Sectors in the NA. Project Preparation Working Group, NA, Pakistan, 1995.
Directorate of Education, NA. Improvement of Existing Physical Learning Environment of
Elementary Schools in the Northern Areas. Conducted by Four Valleys Consultants, NA,
Pakistan, 1995.
Directorate of Education, NA. Working Paper on Quality of Education. Prepared by Prof.
Mubarik Hussain Shah and Ijaz Hussain Bukhari, NA, Pakistan, 1995.
Directorate of Education, NA. Northern Areas Education Project Preparation Document. NA,
Pakistan, 1996.
II. Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) Documents
Directorate of Public Instruction Elementary Education of AJK (DPIEE-AJK). PC-I Northern
Education Project. Azad Janmmu and Kashmir. July 1997 to June 2002. AJK, Pakistan, 1997.
DPIEE-AJK. Working Paper on Community participation in AJK - Northern Education Project.
Conducted by HALCROW, AJK, Pakistan, 1996.



147                              ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3
Planning and Development Department. AJK. AZAD Kashmir at a Glance. 1993. AJK, Pakistan,
1994.
Education Secretariat, AJK. Posting and Transfer Policv - School Education - AJK. AJK,
Pakistan, 1996.
Planning and Development Department, AJK. Social Action Prograrmne - Operational Plan 1996-
97. AJK, Pakistan, 1996.
Planning and Development Department, AJK. Operational Plan (Draft) 1997-98. AJK, Pakistan,
1997.
DPIEE-AJK. Implementation Plan - Northern Education Project - Januarv 1997-December 1998.
Prepared by Mott MacDonald Pakistan, AJK, Pakistan, 1997.
DPIEE-AJK. Design. Field Testing and Execution of the First Round of an Annual School
Mapping Activity. Prepared by Semiotics Consultants, AJK, Pakistan, 1996.
DPIEE-AJK. (1) Rehabilitation and Construction of School Facilities to Improve Access,
Retention and Equity: (2) Economic Analysis of the Project: (3) Project Implementation Plan, (4)
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: (5) Improving the Qualitv of Education: (6) Communitv
Participation: and (7) Improving Management Capacitv. Prepared by Mott MacDonald, AJK,
Pakistan, 1996.
wII. Mission Papers
Directorate of Education (NA), IDA and Multi-Donor Support Unit. A Review of the Northern
Areas Conununity School Programme. Prepared by Asad Azfar, Christopher Wheeler, and Fasi
Uddin, NA, Pakistan, 1996.
Malmborg, John. Review of Aga Khan Housing Board for Pakistan - Self-Help School
Construction Program, NA, Pakistan, 1995.
Malmborg, John. School Construction Working Paper - Northern Areas. Copenhagen, Denmark,
1995.
Malmborg, John. School Construction Working Paper - Azad Jammu and Kashmir. Copenhagen,
Denmark, 1995.
Sutton, Margaret. Teacher Training in the Northern Areas and Azad Jammu and Kashmir.
Washington D.C., USA, 1996.
Sutton, Margaret. Monitoring and Evaluation Plan. Washington D.C., USA, 1996.
Sutton, Margaret. Educational Assessment in the Northern Areas and Azad Jammu and Kashmir.
Washington D.C., USA, 1996.



148                             ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
Bokhari, Ijaz Hussain. Working Paper on Qualitv of Education. Semiotics Consultants,
Islamabad, Pakistan. 1995
Shakil, Sofia. The Role of NGOs and Community Participation in Project Implementation. (Draft)
NA, Pakistan, 1996.
Shakil, Sofia. The Northern Areas Education Project Preparation Workshop. (Workshop Minutes
and Papers), NA, Pakistan, 1995.
IDA Identification Mission. Draft Aide Memoire - Government of Pakistan. Azad Jammu and
Kashmir - Proposed Northern Education Project and Draft Aide Memoire - Government of
Pakistan. Northern Areas - Proposed Northern Education Project. Pakistan, 1995.
IDA Preparation Mission. Aide Memoire - Government of Pakistan. Azad Jammu and Kashmir -
Proposed Northern Education Project and Draft Aide Memoire - Government of Pakistan.
Northern Areas - Proposed Northern Education Project. Pakistan, 1995.
IDA Appraisal Mission. Aide Memoire - Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Northern Areas -
Proposed Northern Education Project; Aide Memoire - Government of Pakistan. Azad Jammu and
Kashmir - Proposed Northern Education Project and Draft Aide Memoire - Government of
Pakistan. Northern Areas - Proposed Northern Education Project. Pakistan, 1996.
Directorate of Education (NA) and DPIEE (AJK). Preliminary Design and Technical
Specifications of Colleges of Elementary Education at Gilgit and Skardu (NA) and CRDC/EEC
Buildin_ and Muzaffarabad (AJK). Prepared by Pervaiz Vendal and Associates, Lahore, Pakistan,
1996.
IV. Other
IDA. Summar Technical Assistance Funding Proposal for Japan PHRD Fund. Washington
D.C., USA, 1994.
Aga Khan Education Services Pakistan. Northern Region Education Planning Exercise. Prepared
by EDC, Pakistan, 1994.
Aga Khan Development Network. Northern Education Project Technical Proposal. NA, Pakistan,
1996.






;



IMAGING
Report No.:         15830   PAK
Type:     SAR



