Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2992 PAK
Project Agreement
(Northern Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
Dated November 5, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2992 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR, acting by its President (AJK).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
sixteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,400,000), on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that AJK agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS AJK, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AJK declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out its activities under the Project through its Department of Education, 
and, if it so decides, with the participation of NRSP and/or any other PNGO acceptable 
to the Association, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for its activities under the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and AJK shall otherwise agree, AJK shall carry out its 
activities under the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth 
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for AJK’s activities under the 
Project  and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AJK shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, AJK shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than 
six 
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and 
AJK, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project in the 
territory of AJK; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with AJK on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) AJK shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of its activities under the Project, 
the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
AJK shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AJK 
of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) AJK shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of its activities under the Project, of the departments or agencies of AJK, 
including NRSP and/or any other PNGO, if participating in the Project, responsible for 
carrying out such activities.
(b)
AJK shall:
(i)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AJK thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify AJK of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
           INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
           Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For AJK:
Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Muzaffarabad
Page  4
Azad Jammu and Kashmir
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AJK may be 
taken or executed by the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development 
Department or such other person or persons as AJK shall designate in writing, and AJK 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Drysdale 
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
AZAD JAMMU AND KASHMIR
By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Implementation Program
1.
AJK shall:
(a)
not later than March 15 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of 
the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the 
Association for its assessment and review: (i) without limitation upon the provisions 
of Article IX of the General Conditions and in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, a progress report on the carrying out of its activities under the Project 
and its Subprograms for the current Fiscal Year; and (ii) each proposed Subprogram to 
be carried out in AJK in the next following Fiscal Year, including the amounts to be 
allocated out of the proceeds of the Credit for such Subprogram;
(b)
not later than June 15 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of 
the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, and provided the 
Association is satisfied with the progress made in the carrying out of AJK’s 
activities under the Project and its Subprograms for the current Fiscal Year, furnish 
to the Association for its approval each proposed Subprogram to be carried out in AJK 
in the next following Fiscal Year modified in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association, taking into account its comments and views on the matter;
(c)
carry out or cause to be carried out each such Subprogram in accordance 
with modalities and procedures as approved by, and in a manner satisfactory to, the 
Association; and
(d)
not make any material changes to such Subprogram without the prior 
Page  5
approval of the Association.
2.
AJK shall ensure that sufficient funds will be released to its DOE, not later 
than the fifteenth day of the beginning of each quarter, for the purposes of 
implementing such part of each approved Subprogram as is to be carried out in AJK in 
that quarter.
3.
AJK shall ensure that its Program Steering Committee will meet at least twice a 
year, and its Project Implementation Committee will meet at least once a month.
4.
AJK shall ensure that its DOE will at all times during the implementation of the 
Project be fully staffed in accordance with a policy on staff postings and transfers 
satisfactory to the Association.
5.
AJK shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of its activities under the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of its activities 
under the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of such activities and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
activities under the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on 
the matter.
