Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2992 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Northern Education Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 5, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2992 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 5, 1997, between  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting 
by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
 (B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Department for International 
Development (DFID) a grant (the DFID Grant) in an amount of not less than $3,100,000 
equivalent to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the DFID Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and DFID;
(C)
the Project activities in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) will be carried 
out by AJK with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to AJK part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and AJK;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations”.
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AJK” means the Territory of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and includes any 
successor thereto;
(b)
“AJK Special Account” means AJK’s account referred to in Section 2.02(b) 
of this Agreement;
(c)
“AKESP” means the Aga Khan Education Services Pakistan, an NGO 
established and operating in the territory of the Borrower;
(d)
“AKRSP” means the Aga Khan Rural Support Program, an NGO established and 
operating in the territory of the Borrower;
(e)
“Borrower’s Special Account” means the Borrower’s account referred to in 
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;
(f)
“DOE” means, with respect to NA as hereinafter defined, its Department of 
Education, and, with respect to AJK, its Department of Education;
(g)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean a fiscal year covering the period from July 1 
to June 30;
(h) 
“Grants” mean, collectively, grants made or proposed to be made to 
community schools in NA using the proceeds of the Credit under Part D.1(a) of the 
Page  3
Project; and “Grant” means each and any one of such grants individually;
(i)
“NA” and “Northern Areas” mean the Northern Areas of the Borrower within 
the administrative jurisdiction of its Ministry of Kashmir Affairs and Northern Areas 
and States and Frontier Regions (KANA and SAFRON);
(j)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and operating in 
the territory of the Borrower;
(k)
“NRSP” means the National Rural Support Program, an NGO established and 
operating in the territory of the Borrower;
(l)
“PNGOs” mean collectively any two or more of the Participating NGOs under 
the Project, being NGO’s identified and agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association from time to time including AKRSP and AKESP participating in the Northern 
Areas pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01(a)(i) of this Agreement, and, if 
selected by AJK for this purpose, NRSP and/or any other NGO participating in AJK 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.01(a) of the Project Agreement; and PNGO means 
each and any of the PNGOs individually;
 (m)
“Priorities Statement” means, with respect to the Northern Areas, the 
document entitled “Northern Areas Priorities and Strategies in Elementary Education” 
and dated August 1996, and, with respect to AJK, the document entitled “AJ&K 
Elementary Education Priorities and Investments” and dated August 1996, all 
satisfactory to the Association, as the same may be amended from time to time with the 
concurrence of the Association;
(n)
“Program” means the Borrower’s program of activities in the elementary 
education sector to be carried out in the Northern Areas and AJK over the period 
FY1997/1998 through FY2001/2002;
(o)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and AJK 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(p)
“SAP” means the five-year (FY 1994/1995 through FY 1998/1999) Social 
Action Program of the Borrower prepared within the overall framework of the Borrower’s 
Eighth Five-Year Plan, with the objective of expanding and improving the coverage of 
delivery of services in the primary education, primary health, population welfare and 
rural water supply and sanitation sectors; and
(q)
“Subprogram” means the subprogram of activities to be carried out in each 
Fiscal Year as part of the Program under the Project as agreed upon between the 
Borrower and the Association, and which shall be reflected in an operational plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, prepared within the framework of the Program and in 
accordance with the relevant Priorities Statement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 16,400,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for, and amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be paid) under Grants made under the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain and 
cause AJK to open and maintain in dollars special deposit accounts in the National 
Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
Page  4
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.   The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Asso\1fciation shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year speci\1ffied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing March 15, 2008 and ending September 15, 
2032. Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2017 
shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary of AJK is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions, in respect of expenditures in AJK under the 
Project.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall carry out or cause to be carried out activities in 
the Northern Areas under the Project, through the 
Department of Education (DOE) of the Northern Areas, and 
with the 
participation of  PNGOs, all with due diligence 
and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and 
educational practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for such 
activities 
under the Project; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall 
cause 
AJK to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the Project 
Agreement all of the obligations of AJK therein 
set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable AJK to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to 
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to AJK the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1)(a)(ii), (1)(b)(ii), (1)(c)(ii), 
(1)(d)(ii), (1)(e)(ii), (1)(f)(ii), (2) and 3(b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in accordance with its standard budgetary procedures, 
for purposes of activities to be carried out in AJK under the Project.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out or cause to be carried out the Project activities in the Northern 
Areas under the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make Grants only on the terms and conditions 
and according to the procedures set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of activities in 
AJK under the Project shall be carried out by AJK pursuant to Section 2.03 (a) of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
Page  6
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the activities to be carried out 
in the Northern Areas under the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower, including PNGOs, responsible for carrying out said activities.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each Fiscal Year, audited in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as 
the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit for the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during each Fiscal Year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  7
(a)
AJK shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that AJK will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds 
of any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association 
that: 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such 
agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (a) of  Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by AJK, and is legally binding upon AJK in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer in that Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  8
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:
Telex:
ECONOMIC
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Drysdale
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprogram
Up to the amount in
expenditures for:
the aggregate 
Page  9
allocated to each
subcategory below
for FY 1997/1998, and,
thereafter, such amount
as may be allocated
by the Association
from time to time to
each subcategory below
       (a)  Civil works:
70% for FY 1997/1998
and, thereafter, such 
     (i)  for NA
  290,000
percentage as may 
be determined by the 
     (ii) for AJK
   70,000
Association from
time to time
(b)  Equipment and
100% of foreign
            vehicles:
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
     (i)  for NA
  350,000
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
     (ii) for AJK
  210,000
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(c)  Furniture:
70% for FY 1997/1998 
and, thereafter, such
           (i)  for NA
   60,000
percentage as may
be determined by the
           (ii) for AJK       10,000
Association from
time to time
(d)  Books and materials:
100%
     (i)  for NA
   30,000
    (ii)  for AJK
   60,000
(e)  Incremental staff
100% until June 30, 
      salaries:
1999, 60% until 
June 30, 2001, and 
      (i)  for NA
  160,000
40% thereafter
      (ii) for AJK
   80,000
(f)  Operating costs and
      travel/daily allowances:
20% for FY 1997/1998 
and thereafter such
      (i)  for NA
   20,000
percentage as may be
determined by the
      (ii) for AJK
   20,000
Association from time 
to time
        (g)
 Grants
  350,000
97% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Consultants’ and PNGO                  
100%
services for AJK:
(a)  provided by PNGOs 10,000
(b)  provided by   
  530,000
     others
(3)
Training:
100%
(a)  for NA
  140,000
(b)  for AJK
   70,000
Page  10
 (4)
Unallocated
      13,940,000
      __________
TOTAL
             16,400,000
      ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “incremental staff salaries” means the salaries and allowances 
of staff appointed to positions created in AJK and NA, respectively, after the 
Effective Date and engaged on a full-time basis for the purposes of the Project; and
(d)
the term “operating costs” means the operating costs of equipment and 
vehicles procured, and the maintenance costs of the schools supported, under the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Subprogram, unless such Subprogram has been approved by 
the Association in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement or paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, 
as the case may be;
(b)
in respect of a Grant, unless the Grant has been made in accordance with 
the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement;
(c)
in respect of expenditures under Categories (1)(a)(i), (1)(b)(i), 
(1)(c)(i), (1)(d)(i), (1)(e)(i), (1)(f)(i), (1)(g) and (3)(a), unless the DFID Grant 
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the parties thereto, and all conditions 
precedent to the effectiveness thereof have been fulfilled;
(d)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(e) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures for goods and services 
supplied under a contract which any national or international financing institution or 
agency other than the Association and the Bank shall have financed or agreed to 
finance, or which the Association and/or the Bank shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under any other project including SAP.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts costing 
less than the equivalent of:  (i) $200,000 for goods and works; (ii) $100,000 for 
services of consulting firms; and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual 
consultants; (b) for training; (c) for incremental staff salaries; (d) for operating 
costs; (e) for Grants; and (f) for PNGO services, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Program for the development of 
the elementary school sector in NA and AJK and, to that end, to assist in: (a) 
improving the quality of education; (b) increasing equitable access to education; (c) 
strengthening institutional capacity; and (d) promoting community participation.
Page  11
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improving Quality
1.
Teacher and Staff Training
(a)
In the Northern Areas: (i) provision of training to about 2,140 
additional government and community school teachers under existing field-based teacher 
development and college-based teacher training programs; (ii) establishment of two 
female elementary teacher training colleges, one in Gilgit and the other in Skardu; 
and (iii) strengthening of Allama Iqbal Open University’s existing non-formal and 
distance education program for girls through the provision of tutoring centers.
(b)
Development and implementation of refresher courses in specialized 
subjects for elementary school teachers and training programs in academic and 
managerial subjects for administrative staff, all in AJK.
2.
Curriculum and Materials Development
(a)
Carrying out of the following activities in (i) the Northern Areas and 
(ii) AJK: (aa) development of lists of learning competencies by grade-level; (bb) 
revision and gradual introduction of existing locally-developed text books;\0b(cc) 
development and introduction (as feasible) of text books for grades for which none 
exist currently under (bb); (dd) development and introduction of teacher materials, 
including multigrade materials and/or low-cost teaching aids; and (ee) provision of 
supplemental learning materials to schools, in conjunction with teacher training under 
Part A (1) of the Project.
(b)
Carrying out in AJK of field-based research on teaching/learning 
practices in elementary schools.
(c)
Construction and equipment of a Curriculum Research Development Center/ 
Education Extension Centre in AJK.
3.
Assessment Techniques Development
Provision of technical assistance and training to teachers and curriculum 
developers in continuous student assessment concepts and techniques in (a) the 
Northern Areas and (b) AJK.
Part B:
Increasing Equitable Access
1.
Government Schools Construction
(a)
Reconstruction and maintenance of: (i) about 18 schools in the Northern 
Areas; and (ii) about 225 schools in AJK, all of which are in such poor condition as 
to be considered dangerous.
(b)
Construction and maintenance of new school buildings for: (i) about 22 
shelterless schools in the Northern Areas; and (ii) about 125 shelterless schools in 
AJK, priority being given for this purpose to mixed and/or girls primary and 
elementary schools.
2.
Community Schools Construction
Construction and maintenance of about 450 school buildings for community schools 
in the Northern Areas, priority being given for this purpose to mixed and/or girls 
primary and elementary schools.
Part C:
Strengthening Institutional Capacity
1.
Department/Directorate of Education
Strengthening of (a) the Directorate of Education in the Northern Areas and (b) 
the Department of Education in AJK, through the provision of staff, improved office 
Page  12
tools and facilities, technical assistance and training.
2.
Education Management Information Systems
Improvement of Education Management Information Systems (EMIS) in (a) the 
Northern Areas and (b) AJK, through the provision of staff, improved office equipment, 
technical assistance and training.
3.
Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out of field-based studies to evaluate institutional processes 
(including beneficiary feedback), and provision of technical assistance for 
achievement testing of students in (a) the Northern Areas and (b) AJK.
Part D:
Supporting Community Participation
1.
Community Schools
In the Northern Areas: (a) provision of additional financial support through 
grants for up to 800 community schools; and (b) provision of additional technical and 
institutional support, inter alia, for: (i) the training of DOE staff in social 
organization and mobilization; (ii) the piloting of various modalities of providing 
management and financial support to community schools; and (iii) the training of DOE 
staff involved in the design and supervision of the community schools program.
2.
Other Interventions
(a)
Establishment of Parent-Teacher Associations (PTAs) in government schools 
in the Northern Areas.
(b) 
Establishment of, and provision of technical assistance and training to, 
village school committees in AJK.
*             *             *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Schedule, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Vehicles shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Vehicles.  The provisions of paragraphs 
2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to vehicles 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works, equipment and furniture may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  13
2.
National Shopping
Books and materials may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for each Subprogram under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first four contracts each in NA and AJK and, 
thereafter, each contract for vehicles, equipment, materials and works estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract awarded under Part C.2 hereof, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for school mapping and design under Parts B(1)(a)(ii) and B(1)(b)(ii) 
and for construction supervision under Part C(1)(b) of the Project may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
Page  14
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for training in community mobilization under Part D(2)(b) of the 
Project may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for management, procurement, accounting, and management information 
systems under Parts C(1)(b) and C(2)(b) of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project may be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for, and Terms and Conditions of, Grants
1.
Grants shall be managed by the Directorate of Education of NA, and shall satisfy 
the following criteria, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Association may agree upon from time to time:
(a)
the purpose for which such grants shall be made will be to partially 
defray the costs associated with the establishment and operation of community schools, 
including expenditures for (i) teacher salaries, (ii) building rentals, (iii) books 
and materials, and (iv) building maintenance and/or construction;
(b)
such grants may be made to community schools which: (i) are located in 
villages where they are the only schools, or where there are boys’ schools which are 
not open to girls, or where the available schools do not satisfy the demand because of 
overcrowding; (ii) have a minimum enrollment of 20 students and a maximum 
Page  15
student-teacher ratio of 40-1; (iii) enjoy community consensus in favor of their 
establishment, as evidenced by written agreement between community representatives and 
the Directorate of Education for such establishment; (iv) have adequate space 
allocated for them by the communities concerned; (v) will have teachers hired for them 
in accordance with the terms of the agreement referred to in (iii) above; and (vi) 
will be managed by village education committees appointed by the communities 
concerned, with capacity, commensurate with the respective size of such communities, 
to generate and manage funds, to maintain accounts for such funds and have them 
audited and to report on school activities on a regular basis;
(c)
such grants shall be made in amounts to be determined on a 
school-by-school basis and shall reflect differences in student enrollment between 
schools according to a formula to be approved by the Association as part of each 
Subprogram; and 
(d)
an eligible community school may receive one grant per Fiscal Year of 
Project implementation for a maximum of five Fiscal Years of Project implementation.
2.
Grant proposals for each Fiscal Year of Project implementation shall form part 
of the Subprograms for such Fiscal Year, and shall be presented to the Association for 
approval as such, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall, with respect to NA:
(a) 
not later than March 15 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of 
the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, furnish to the 
Association for its assessment and review: (i) without limitation upon the provisions 
of Article IX of the General Conditions and in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, a progress report on the carrying out of the Project and the Subprograms 
for the current Fiscal Year; and (ii) each proposed Subprogram to be carried out in 
the next following Fiscal Year, including the amounts to be allocated out of the 
proceeds of the Credit for such Subprogram;
(b)
not later than June 15 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of 
the Project or such later date as the Association may agree, and provided the 
Association is satisfied with the progress made in the carrying out of the Project and 
the Subprograms for the current Fiscal Year, furnish to the Association for its 
approval each proposed Subprogram to be carried out in the next following Fiscal Year 
modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association, taking into account its comments 
and views on the matter; 
(c)
carry out or cause to be carried out each such Subprogram in accordance 
with modalities and procedures as approved by, and in a manner satisfactory to, the 
Association; and 
(d)
not make any material changes to such Subprogram without the prior 
approval of the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that sufficient funds will be released to the 
Directorate of Education of NA, not later than the fifteenth day of the beginning of 
each quarter, for the purposes of implementing such part of each approved Subprogram 
as is to be carried out in NA in that quarter.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure, with respect to NA, that the Program Steering 
Committee will meet at least twice a year, and that the Project Implementation 
Committee will meet at least once a month.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that the Directorate of Education of NA will at all 
times during the implementation of the Project be fully staffed to the satisfaction of 
the Association.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) its support for community school development 
Page  16
in the Northern Areas under the Project will be provided in accordance with policies, 
procedures and guidelines satisfactory to the Association; and (b) that such policies, 
procedures and guidelines will be announced not later than December 31, 1998 or such 
later date as the Association may agree, and may be modified from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association.
6.
The Borrower shall, not later than January 15, 1998, enter into an arrangement 
with AKRSP and AKESP, satisfactory to the Association, for them to participate in the 
provision of technical assistance and training as appropriate under Parts A(1)(a)(i) 
and D(1)(b) of the Project.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means in respect of the Borrower’s Special 
Account, Categories l(a)(i); l(b)(i); l(c)(i); l(d)(i); l(e)(i) l(f)(i); l(g) and 3(a) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and, in respect 
of the AJK Special Account, Categories (l)(a)(ii); (l)(b)(ii); (l)(c)(ii); l(d)(ii); 
l(e)(ii); l(f)(ii); (2) and (3)(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means (i) in respect of the Borrower, an 
amount equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Borrower’s Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of the relevant eligible Categories shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,500,000 and (ii) in respect of AJK, an amount 
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
AJK Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule provided, however, 
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $150,000 until, the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in 
respect of the relevant eligible Categories shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 2,500,000. 
Page  17
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower or AJK, as the 
case may be, shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the respective Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower or AJK, as the case may be, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower or 
AJK, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the respective  Special Account 
at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower, 
or AJK, as the case may be, shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect 
of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, or AJK, 
as the case may be, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower, or 
AJK, as the case may be, shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for 
eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association 
from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have 
been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, out of a 
Special Account, the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, shall, at such time as the 
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, directly from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, shall have failed to furnish 
to the Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of 
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower, or 
AJK, as the case may be, of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the relevant 
eligible Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to such eligible Categories, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
Page  18
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the relevant eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if 
the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower, or AJK, as the case may be, may, upon notice to the 
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a 
Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
