CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 332 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 332 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 29, 1972, between the EMPIRE OF
ETHIOPIA     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Imperial Highway
Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Imperial Highway Authority such proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; Part B of the Project will be carried out
by the Borrower and Part C will be carried out by the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank S.C. with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance the Borrower will make available to the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank S.C. such proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement between the
Association and the Imperial Highway Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "IHA" means the Imperial Highway Authority, an agency of the
Borrower created by the Highway Authority Proclamation of 1950 (Proclamation
No. 115 of 1951) of the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to
time;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and IHA to be signed, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank S.C.,
a share company established and operating pursuant to the Commercial Code
Proclamation of 1960 (Proclamation No. 1960) and to Decree No. 55 of 1970,
and shall include any successor or successors thereto;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)   "Planning Commission" means the Planning Commission of the
Borrower established and operating pursuant to Order No. 63 of 1970 providing
for the creation of a Planning Commission;
(f)   "Ethiopian Contractor" means any Ethiopian registered contractor or
construction enterprise managed and majority owned by the nationals of the
Borrower; and
(g)   "Contractor Loan" means a loan by AIDB to an Ethiopian contractor
who has won a bid for a highway construction contract and for the purpose of
financing the additional construction equipment required for the carrying out of
the contract.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿5
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1982 and ending February 15, 2022, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1992 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause IHA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action including the provision of funds (including
proceeds of the Credit allocated for the carrying out of Part A), facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IHA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿6
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit for carrying out
Part C available to AIDB under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and AIDB under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, including inter alia those set forth in Schedule -
3 hereto.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary     Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall continue to carry out the study described
in Part B of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency under the direction
and control of the Planning Commission and shall provide the funds, facilities,
services and other resources necessary for carrying out such study, and, in order
to assist in the completion of such study, the Borrower shall employ two qualified
and experienced experts acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure at
all times that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its highways do not
exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such highways.
Section 3.04. Upon completion of construction of each road under the
Project or sooner, the Borrower shall initiate or cause to be initiated in the vicinity
of such roads a program of agricultural extension services and credit for improved
agricultural inputs satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain facilities adequate to collect and
record, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such
information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of its highway
system.
Section 3.06. The Borrower hereby agrees that a dispute settlement clause
with a provision for arbitration shall be included in all contracts for road
construction entered into by IHA in the implementation of the Project pursuant
to this Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by IHA of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the performance by AIDB of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and expenditures
of IHA and AIDB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, resources and
expenditures of IHA and AIDB and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by IHA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   IHA shall have failed to perform any of its covenants, agreements or
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   before the Project Agreement shall have terminated in accordance with
its terms, the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of IHA or for the suspension
of its operations, or the Highway Authority Proclamation of 1950 (Proclamation


﻿9
No. 115 of 195 1) establishing IHA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
modified or repealed so as to affect materially and adversely IHA's ability to carry
out the Project;
(c)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of AIDB
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any material provision thereof, shall
have been assigned, amended, suspended, terminated or waived without the prior
approval of the Association; and
(e)   before the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have terminated in
accordance with its terms, the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AIDB or
for the suspension of its operations without the prior concurrence of the
Association.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in Section 6.02(a), (c) and (d) of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in Section 6.02(b) and (e) of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of IHA
have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, on
behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, respectively, have been duly authorized by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿10
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized and executed
and delivered on behalf of IHA, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of IHA in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized and
executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, respectively, and .
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and AIDB in accordance
with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date January 15, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.4 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03 and 3.05
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date
of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Sjction 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa


﻿11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s / Ato Mammo Tadesse
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category -
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.   Construction                   10,800,000          75% of total ex-
penditures
II.   Supervision of                 1,100,000          75% of total
Construction                                      expenditures
III.  Technical Assistance
for
(a)   Rural Roads                145,000          100% of foreign
Study                                       expenditures
(b)   IHA and Train-             480,000          100% of foreign
ing of Ethiopian                            expenditures
Contractors
IV.   Materials' Research             200,000           100% of foreign
and Training Equip-                               expenditures
ment
V.    Contractor Loans               1,500,000
(a)   for directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported goods                                expenditures fi-
nanced under such
loans


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(b)   for imported                                  100% of disburse-
goods procured                                ments under such
locally                                       loans net of any
disbursements to
finance import
duties, transac-
tion taxes or any
other taxes
VI.   Unallocated                     2,775,000
TOTAL         17,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and total
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,


﻿14
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category I, II, III
or IV shall increase and if no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:
(i)         Construction of the following roads, including supervision of
such construction:
Asela-Dodola             (120 km)
Bonga-Mizan Teferi       ( 80 km)
Agaro-Ghera-Chira        ( 48 km)
Dejen-Mota               ( 96 km)
Gelemso-Mechara          ( 42 km)
Butajira-Ziway           ( 48 km)
(ii)        A  program  of technical assistance to IHA   in the fields of
management, training, design, planning and materials' research.
(iii)       Provision of training to Ethiopian    contractors in  costing,
organization and bidding procedures appropriate for road
contracts.
(iv)        Purchase of equipment for training and materials' research for
IHA.
Part B:
A study on organizational and operational requirements for planning,
financing, construction and maintenance of rural roads.
Part C.
A credit program by AIDB to provide financial assistance to Ethiopian
contractors who are successful bidders on road construction contracts for the
purchase of equipment required for the execution of such contracts.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which part
of the proceeds of the Credit required for purposes of Part C of the Project or
the equivalent thereof shall be lent to AIDB by the Borrower:
(1)   Interest Rate: 7-1/4% per annum on amounts withdrawn.
(2)   Repayment: In accordance with an amortization schedule representing
the sum of the individual repayment schedules for Contractor Loans.
(3)   In the case of a default under a Contractor Loan financed under the
Project, the Borrower shall indemnify AIDB 50% of the excess, if any, of the
amount in default over the amount recoverable from security.
AIDB Lending Procedure
(4)   Following receipt of information that an Ethiopian contractor was
considered by IHA to be technically qualified for the execution of a road
construction project, except for the ability of the contractor to finance specific
additional items of road construction equipment, AIDB would investigate the
creditworthiness of the contractor and inform the contractor and IHA whether
the contractor would be considered creditworthy for the amounts involved if the
contractor should win the bid.
(5) Upon notification by IHA that such a prequalified Ethiopian contractor
had won a road construction contract, and provided that the contractor is still
considered by AIDB to be creditworthy, AIDB would open a loan account in the
name of such contractor for the amount which had been agreed for the purchase
of the required road construction equipment.
(6)   AIDB shall receive under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement such amounts
as the Borrower receives from the Association under Category V of Schedule 1
to this Agreement. AIDB shall submit to the Borrower sufficient evidence to support
a withdrawal application under Part C of the Project, or if the Borrower agrees,
AIDB may itself submit this evidence and the withdrawal application to the
Association. Such evidence should indicate, inter alia, that particular items of
equipment had been purchased or ordered, the amount of the loan to finance
these items of equipment, and (a) in the case of directly imported goods, the
c.i.f. cost or (b) in the case of imported goods procured locally, the total cost,


﻿17
a statement of the amounts, if any, of import duty, transaction tax or any other
tax included in such cost, and a statement of country of origin of such goods.
Terms of Contractor Loans under the Project
(7)   Unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
Contractor Loans will be made at an interest rate of not less than 9-1/2% per
annum. Repayment period, including any period of grace, shall in no case be longer
than the life of the assets financed.
(8)   Contractor Loans will be denominated in Ethiopian dollars. The
Borrower will bear the foreign exchange risk.
(9)   Unless the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, AIDB
shall require for Contractor Loans a downpayment in cash or in kind by the
contractor against the equipment to be financed not to exceed 25% of the cost
of such equipment, and, in addition, AIDB shall obtain a mortgage on such
equipment as security.
(10) AIDB will require that:
(a)  imported goods to be financed under Contractor Loans are
adequately insured against hazards incident to their acquisition,
transportation and delivery to the Contractor;
(b)   equipment financed under Contractor Loans is adequately
insured against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with sound practices;
(c)   equipment financed under Contractor Loans shall be used
exclusively for the purposes of the road construction contract
for which the loan was made until such time as IHA shall have
certified that the equipment was no longer required for that
purpose; and
(d)   equipment financed under Contractor Loans shall be limited to
equipment produced in and supplied from a country which is
a member of the Bank or from Switzerland.


﻿18
Other Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(11) AIDB shall carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and banking
practices.
(12) AIDB shall permit the Association to inspect the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower and any relevant
records and documents.
(13) AIDB shall furnish the Association such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning Part C of the Project, the Contractor Loans,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the
goods financed out of such proceeds and the administration, operations and
financial condition of AIDB.
(14) AIDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations in respect of Part
C of the Project.
15) Al DB shall promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the execution of' Part
C of the Project, or the performance of AIDB's obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.


