CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 332 ET
Project Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
DATED OCTOBER 19, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 332 ET
Project Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
DATED OCTOBER 19, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY (hereinafter called IHA).
WHEREAS       by    the    Development    Credit    Agreement    dated
September 29, 1972 between the Empire of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million
dollars ($17,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that IHA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS IHA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. IHA shall carry out Part A of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound engineering, administrative, financial and highway
practices, and to that end, IHA shall ensure that the general design standards to
be used in carrying out Part A of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified from time to time.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In carrying out supervision of construction of the roads
included in Part A(i) of the Project, IHA shall employ competent and experienced
personnel acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IHA shall,
in carrying out Part A(i) of the Project, employ contractors acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. In carrying out Part A(iii) of the Project, IHA shall employ
one or more experts acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   the contracting services for civil works required for the Project, and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to IHA by the
Borrower, shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972, and in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Section A of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the materials' research and training equipment required for the Project,
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to IHA by
the Borrower, shall be procured in accordance with and subject to the provisions
set forth in Section B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IHA shall
employ consultants and individual experts acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association for the purposes set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be modified from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) IHA undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by IHA to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, IHA shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.08. (a) IHA shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   IHA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of IHA
Section 3.01. IHA shall at all times manage its affairs and carry out its
operations in accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic and
engineering practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced and
competent management, assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate
numbers, and to that end, IHA shall take such steps as shall be deemed necessary,
in agreement with the Association, to strengthen its management, including the
improvement of its IHA supervision activities and the coordination of district
operations.
Section 3.02. IHA shall cause the primary, secondary and feeder roads
included in the Borrower's highway system to be maintained fully and adequately
in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.03. In order to provide a basis for future road planning, IHA shall
continue to collect statistics on traffic and take such steps as may be agreed upon
from time to time between IHA and the Association for improving such traffic
data collection.
Section 3.04. IHA hereby agrees to review with the Association the results
and recommendations of the road maintenance study currently being carried out
by IHA with the assistance of Frediric R. Harris Inc., and implement such
recommendations as shall have been agreed upon between IHA and the Association
in accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the Association.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. IHA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 4.02. IHA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of IHA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. IHA shall furnish to the Association on a quarterly basis a
report indicating for each subhead of the IHA ordinary and capital budget (i)
amounts requested, (ii) amounts received from the Borrower, and (iii) amounts
actually expended by IHA.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and IHA shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and IHA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of IHA and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and IHA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and AIDB of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿7
Section 5.03. IHA shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of IHA and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of IHA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify IHA of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For IHA:
Imperial Highway Authority
P.O. Box 1770
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
Highways
Ethiopia
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of IHA may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person
or persons as IHA shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. IHA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of IHA, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by IHA pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Michael L. Lejeune
Director, Country Programs I
Eastern Africa
IMPERIAL HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
By /s/ Kifle Wodajo
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Civil Works
1.    Bidders will be required to prequalify. IHA shall, before qualification is
invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall
introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by IHA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and IHA shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.    In the case of Ethiopian contractors, IHA will first decide whether the
contractor could handle the proposed contract, on the assumption that finance
for required additional road construction equipment could be obtained. IHA will
also obtain from the contractor a list of additional equipment required for the
job and determine whether the contractor's proposed list of additional equipment
is reasonable. For Ethiopian contractors that IHA considers technically qualified,
IHA will request AIDB to determine whether the contractor would be creditworthy
for the amounts needed to finance the required additional equipment. Upon receipt
of information from AIDB that the contractor is creditworthy for the amounts
involved, IHA will inform the contractor that he is prequalified.
3.    The contracts shall be on a unit price basis. For the purposes of bidding,
the contracts shall be tendered either individually or combined at the bidder's
option, as follows:
Individually                  Combined
Gelemso-Mechara
Dejen-Mota
Asela-Dodola                  Asela-Dodola
with
Butajira-Ziway                Butajira-Ziway
Bonga-Mizan Teferi            Bonga-Mizan Teferi
with
Agaro-Ghera-Chira             Agaro-Ghera-Chira


﻿11
4.    Before bids are invited, IHA     shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, details of proposed advertising procedures, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents and shall make such
modifications in the said documents as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before they are issued to the prospective bidders.
5.    A period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for submission of bids from
prequalified bidders. Bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or bank guarantee
amounting to 1% of the bid amount.
6.    The bidding documents shall contain, inter alia, the following requirements:
(a)   that the successful bidder shall be required to furnish, at his option,
either a 100% performance bond or a bank guarantee by an acceptable financial
institution in an amount of 10% of the contract price, which bond or guarantee
shall remain in effect until the provisional acceptance certificate has been issued
under the terms of the contract; and
(b)   that the contract with the successful bidder shall contain the following
provisions:
(i)         retention by IHA of 10% of the cost of works on each monthly
invoice up to a limit of 5% of the contract sum. One-half of
the retention monies shall be released when the provisional
acceptance certificate has been issued, and the other half after
termination of the contractor's responsibility in respect of
defects. In lieu of such retention the contractor may, at his
option, substitute a bank guarantee;
(ii)        the warranty    period during which    the contractor remains
responsible in respect of defects in the works (fair wear and
tear excepted) shall extend for one year after acceptance of the
work; and
(iii)       a  provision  for settlement of disputes acceptable to      the
Borrower, IHA and the Association.
7.    IHA shall, before the award of any contract, submit to the Association for
its approval the proposed staffing plan for the supervision of construction under
such contract, and no such contract shall be awarded until the relevant staffing
plan has been agreed.


﻿12
8.    After bids have been received and evaluated, IHA shall, before the award
is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder to whom it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report by the supervisory personnel referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of such personnel and the reasons
for the intended award. The Association shall promptly inform IHA whether it
has any objection to the intended award on the ground that it would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement, and shall state the reasons for any
objections it may have.
9.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection,
or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure thereunder
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
10.  IHA shall furnish to the Association two signed copies of the contract
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds.
B.    Training Equipment and Supplies and Materials' Research Equipment
1.   Identical or similar items will be grouped together wherever practicable for
the purposes of bidding and procurement.
2.    Before awards of contracts are made, IHA will send to the Association copies
of the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, and shall submit to the Association an evaluation of the bids received
and IHA's proposal concerning the contract award. If it is proposed to award the
contract to a bidder other than the one offering the lowest evaluated price, the
reasons for such proposal will be given. The Association shall promptly inform
IHA whether it has any objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons
for any objections it may have.
3.    If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection, or if its terms
and conditions shall materially differ from those for which bids were asked, any
expenditure thereunder shall not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Two conformed copies of each contract will be sent to the Association as
soon as signed and before submission of the first withdrawal application thereunder.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Experts and Consultants to be Employed for
Carrying out Part A(ii) of the Project
1.   a senior expert to advise and assist on reorganization of IHA procedures
and help implement improved technical auditing and costing;
2.   a design expert to assist in improving the quality of IHA design work;
3.   a planning expert to advise IHA's Planning and Programming Division on
improved planning procedures;
4.    an expert on road construction materials to undertake research to develop
pavement design and construction practices related to local materials and
sub-surface conditions;
5.   two experts on road maintenance, organization and operations; and
6.   an expert to assist on coordinating the procurement, storage and workshop
procedures of IDA's Equipment and Supply Division.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Feeder Road Design Standards
Terrain
Geometric Design Standards       Unit       Flat       Rolling     Mountainous
Speed                      km/h          80          80            30
Minimum Horizontal         m            230         130            10
Radius
Maximum Gradient           %              -           0            10
Minimum Gradient           %            0.4           -              -
Pavement Camber            %              4           4             4
Roadway Features
Roadway Width              m              6           6             6
Gravel Pavement            m              5           5             5*
Structural Design Features
Maximum Axle               m ton        -------8--------------
Loading
Bridges
Loading                           - - - AASHO H. 20-S.16 ------
Width, curb           m-          --------7.32------------
to curb
*    Under the Project, road pavements will be constructed with 15 cm of selected subbase
material as a first stage.


