Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17985 AM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARMENIA
TITLE REGISTRATION PROJECT
September 16, 1998
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 14,1998)
Currency Unit = Dram
Current i$US = 515 Dram
October 24, 1997  1SUS = 490 Dram
October 15, 1996  1$US = 420 Dram
December 31, 1995  1$US = 402 Dram
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ARMENIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMD         Armenian Dram
ARSP        Agricultural Reform Support Project
AUPCA         Armenian Unified Property Cadastral Administration or SCA
CBA        Central Bank of Armenia
cIS       Commonwealth of Independent States
EU-FSP        European Union - Food Security Program
FSU        Former Soviet Union
GIS       Geographic Information System
GOA        Government of Armenia
iAS       International Accounting Standards
IB       Inventory Bureaus (former) - core of the State Cadastral Administration
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICMA        International City/Country Management Association
IDA        International Development Association
IRC        Information & Registration Center
IS       International Shopping
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MOEP         Ministry of Environmental Protection
MOFE         Ministry of Finance and Economy
MUD         Ministry of Urban Development
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NNP        Net National Product
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PHRD        Participation and Human Resources Development
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
SCA        State Cadastral Administration
TRP        Title Registration Project
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VAT        Value Added Tax
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Judy O'Connor, ECC03
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Team Leader: Mark Lundell, ECSSD



REPIUBLIC OF ARMENIA
TITLE REGISTRATION PROJECT
AM - 57560
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY ........................................................i
CHAPTER  1. BACKGROUND...........................................................................................
A. Introduction ....................................                                                1-1
B. The Policy Agenda ....................................                                           1-2
C. Urban Developments ....................................                                          1-4
D. Agricultural Sector ....................................                                         1-5
E. Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production .................................... 1-6
F. Bank's Experience and Strategy ....................................                              1-8
CHAPTER 2. THE PROJECT.............................................................................................
A. Project Origin and Formulation                      .................................... 2-10
B. Project Objectives and Description ....................................                        2-11
C. Cost Estimates .................................... .                                          2-15
D. Financing .................................... .                                               2-16
E. Procurement ....................................                                               2-17
F. Disbursement ....................................                                              2-19
CHAPTER 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..................................................................
A. Organization and Management ....................................                               3-21
C. Accounts and Audit ....................................                                        3-23
D. The Reporting and Evaluation ....................................                              3-23
CHAPTER 4. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT..........................
A. Benefits .................................... .                                                4-25
B. Risks ....................................                                                      4-26
C. Economic Analysis                       ..                         .................................. 4-27
D. Sustainability .................................... .                                          4-30
E. Environmental impact ....................................                                      4-31
F. Poverty ....................................                                                   4-31
CHAPTER 5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....................
A. Conditions of Appraisal ....................................                                    5-32
B. Conditions for Negotiations ....................................                                5-32
C. Agreements Reached During Negotiations ....................................                      5-32
D. Recommendation ....................................                                             5-34
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal missions in February and June 1997,
whose mission members included: M. Lundell (Mission Leader), J. Holl, B. Klose, and M.
Sahatdjian. The report was finalized on the basis of an appraisal mission (December 1997)
and a follow-up mission (April 1998) by M. Lundell and T. Ward.



i
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
TITLE REGISTRATION PROJECT, AM - 57560
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Armenia
Implementing Agency: State Cadastral Administration
Beneficiaries:        Private farmers, small and medium-size enterprises, financial institutions,
and property owners (land and real estate)
Amount:               US$ 8.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Standard, with 35 year maturity, including a 10 year grace period.
Commitment Fee:       0.75% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waivers.
Financing Plan:
National     Foreign      Total
------------US $ million ----
IDA                           6.086        1.914        8.000
Government of Armenia         2.569        0.000        2.569
Total Project Costs           8.655        1.914       10.569
Project Objectives:    The overall aim of the Title Registration Project (TRP) is to promote private
sector development by implementing a transparent, parcel-based, easily
accessible, and reliable registration system for land and other real property.
This system will set out a chronological record of property owners and their
rights and obligations. The specific objectives of the TRP are: (a) to
increase the productivity and value of land and other real estate by securing
property rights and promoting consolidation of fragmented rural land
ownership; and, (b) to facilitate the use of property as collateral and reduce
high transaction costs in title transfer and mortgage finance by improving the
efficiency of rural and urban property markets. The project will also
promote least-cost registration procedures by building on existing data bases
of property information, by adding only market relevant information to these
data bases, and by contracting through private surveyors.



ii
Project Description:    The project consists of three components: (i) establishing a network of
Information and Registration Centers (IRCs); (ii) surveying land and other
real estate to produce cadastral maps; and, (iii) equipping and operating a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
The IRC network will include a Central Office in Yerevan and 25 fully
functional local offices. The Mapping Center will oversee surveys and
cadastral map production Together, these components of the system will
facilitate the information flow relating to titles for registration. of property
transactions based on operational manuals that define a set of procedures for
local IRCs, surveying, and cadastral mapping. The PIU will have direct
responsibility for coordinating project activities involving the IRC network
and the Mapping Center and executing all project procurement,
disbursement, monitoring, and evaluation activities.
The TRP will substantially complete the systematic surveying and official
registration of property in Yerevan and four of the country's eleven marzes
(regions). In the other six marzes, it will incorporate existing Acts (deeds)
into the new registration system based on a limited number of systematic
surveys. Over four years, the project will bring into the registration system
an estimated 55% of rural properties and 45% of urban properties. Access to
data will be demand driven and administered by the Armenian Unified
Cadastral Administration (SCA).
Project Benefits:      The primary beneficiaries of this project are private farmers, small and
medium-size enterprises, and urban property owners whose title would be
secured. Title security would increase incentives for investment in property
and increase access to credit thereby improving the operational capacity of
farmers and rural enterprises. In rural areas, land titling will also promote
consolidation of land plots and reduce the cost of property transactions,
thereby increasing the potential for agricultaral productivity growth.
Similarly in both rural and urban areas, registration will document the
owners' rights, obligations, and build-up the pool of collateralized real estate
property and reduce transaction costs. In sum, the project will assist the
development of a property market and subsequent fair and transparent market
valuation.
Environmental          The project is classified as category "C" in the Bank's environmental rating
Aspects:               system because security of land title will likely stimulate sustainable land
management and improved agricultural practices. Such practices in rural
areas would be supported by a more effective extension service system
created under the Agricultural Reform Support Project (ARSP). Furthermore,
land registration in particular would improve the creditworthiness of farmers
and their access to credit. In turn, increased credit would increase the
likelihood of farmers' investing in conservation and other sulstainable
practices.



iii
Project Risks:        The project's risks include: (a) resurgence of macro-economic instability that
could deter the development of financial markets; (b) delay and subsequent
increased costs in the registration process due to: i) need for greater use of
labor and time-intensive surveying, ii) lack of coherent rules as to how data
should be collected, iii) lack of trained surveyors, and iv) requirements for
excessively precise boundaries for the surveying process; (c) lack of
sufficient focus and funding by the Government for title registration in the
newly formed registration system; and (d) lack of market demand for SCA's
services stemming from an excessively high fee structure; and, (e)
participating financial institution's failure to aggressively promote the
complementary line of credit (under the ARSP) because of inexperience with
investment lending and mortgage concepts. The implementation risks
associated with (b), (c) and (d) above would be mitigated through a clear
legal framework, precise definitions and procedures in the operations manual,
and a transitional provision whereby initial registration is systematic with low
fees and freely accessible information. The ARSP is addressing the issues of
the implementation risk associated with (e).
Economic Rate Of      Determination of the ERR is difficult, as demonstrated in a series of similar
Return (ERR):        title registration projects in other countries.  The primary economic
assumption for this project is that a registry system would simplify the deed
and title search; thereby lessening property transfer and mortgage costs and
enhancing property market development. Estimated cost recovery periods of
similar projects average seven years in urban areas and 15 years in rural
areas, the difference owing to a lower intensity of transactions in the rural
sector.
Estimated Closing
Date:                December 31, 2002
Poverty Category      The project is not explicitly focused on poverty alleviation.  However,
through mass registration of property via a systematic approach it supports
the development of rural finance, rekindles demand for farm produce from
processors, and supports market-driven urban development. Therefore, it has
strong linkages to a large number of small-scale private farmers and rural
inhabitants. As such, it would help increase farmers' access to formal credit.
Title registration would also improve agricultural practices with land security
and farmers' abilities to borrow in the medium term. In sum, the project will
have an indirect, but substantial impact on poverty reduction.
Project ID:        AM-57560
Map:              29596



iv
Project Cost Summary (US S million)
National       Foreign     Total    % Foreilgn   % of
Exchange    Cost
Information and Registration Center  1.747          1.172      2.919      40.2%     30.2%
Network
Surveying and Cadastral Mapping      5.618          0.503      6.121       8.2%     63.5%
Project Implementation Unit          0.531          0.071      0.602       11.8%     6.3%
Total Allocated                      7.896          1.746      9.642      18.1%    100.0%
Contingencies                        0.760          0.168      0.928      18.1%      9.6%
Total Project Cost                   8.655          1.914      10.569     18.1%    109.6%
Projections for IDA Disbursements (US $ millions)
FY 1999      FY 2000       FY 2001      FY 2002        FY 2003
Annual                        1.093         1.999        1.699         1.650          0.857
Cumulative                    1.093        3.092         4.791         6.441          7298
Cumulative Contingencies      0.105        0.298         0.461         0.620          0.702
Grand Total - Cumulative      1.199        3.389         5.251         7.061          8.000



Chapter 1                                                               1
1. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1   Armenia covers an area of 29,800 km2 and shares borders with Azerbaijan,
Georgia, Iran and Turkey. Altitudes vary from 400 m to 4,000 m above sea level. Two-
thirds of the total land area is covered by high plateaus and mountains, and most of
Armenia is at an altitude of 1,000 m or above. In 1997, the total population is estimated
at 3.68 million, at a population density of about 123 per km2 . About 69% of the
population is concentrated in the urban areas. Yerevan (the capital city) alone has 1.4
million inhabitants or about 38% of the total population and some 250,00 private homes
(flats and homes). Administratively, the country is divided into 11 marzes, including
Yerevan. The smallest administrativ_ unit is the village, of which there are some 950.
1.2   Armenia became an independent country in May  1991 following the
disintegration of the Former Soviet Union (FSU). It is now a member of the
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS). Since independence, the Government of
Arnenia (GOA) has pursued the objectives of consolidating national independence and
promoting market reform. A very high degree of integration into the FSU economy
induced economic collapse in Armenia when the inter-FSU trade, payments and financial
system broke down. More fundamentally, the elimination of non-market pricing in trade
between FSU states imposed a severe terms of trade shock on Armenia, particularly due
to the sharp rise in energy import prices. This exposed the lack of comparative advantage
for significant parts of Armenia's productive base. Facing these difficulties, the GOA has
shown a strong commitment to a re-orientation of the role of government in the country's
economy. The adoption of a new national constitution has initiated a thorough
restructuring of government agencies.  Furthermore, the implementation of a
comprehensive stabilization and structural reform program since early 1994 has
reinforced the coordination between ministries in priority setting and policy formulation.
1.3   Progress on re-orienting government in the transition to the market economy has
accelerated with an easing of the regional political situation. Initially, the conflict over
Nagorno-Karabakh led to a trade and transport blockade by Azerbaijan (traditionally
Armenia's principal transit route for oil, gas, and other products) and the closure of the
Turkish border. However, there have been several positive developments in Arnenia's
relations with its neighbors. A formal cease-fire with Azerbaijan was singed in 1994, and
there have been signs of a rapprochement between Armenia and Turkey. These
developments offer a real prospect of lifting the blockade on Armenia in the near futture.
In addition, rapidly-growing trade with Iran and greater stability in Georgia have eased
Armenia's isolation. Progress in implementing a stabilization program has been
impressive since mid-1994. The fiscal deficit declined from 48.2% of GDP in 1993 to



Chapter 1                                                                 2
8.8% in 1996 The nominal exchange rate has been broadly stable since the Spring of
1994. After an estimated 60% decline in GDP in 1991-93, growth of GDP has been
about 6% annually in 1994-97. The current account deficit (excluding official transfers)
declined to 26.5% of GDP in 1996 from 35.5% in 1994. This has been accompanied by
an accumulation of foreign exchange reserves equivalent to 3.5 months of imports (three
times the 1994 level).
1.4   However, these achievements in GDP growth and external adjustment remain
fragile, and poverty has become pervasive (particularly in urban areas, where people have
limited access to agricultural land). Average monthly wages in the state sector were
about US $36 in January 1996 (in the budgetary sector they were only about US $12)
and average pensions for the elders is about US $7. Although wages are often
supplemented by informal sector income, social assistance, remittances from abroad, and
humanitarian aid, survey data reveal consumption levels barely above subsistence levels
for large parts of the population. While recorded unemployment is only 5% of the labor
force, a further 15% to 30% are estimated to be on involuntary unpaid leave or reduced
pay for shortened working hours.
B. The Policy Agenda
1.5   Despite the initial success following introduction of the reform programs, the new
market economy is still in a transition stage - tax collection remains haphazard, andL the
productive sector has not fully been adjusted to new economic signals. In general the
GOA hope to institute a cadaster system for property to a) provide updated information
on real estate characteristics deemed important by the society; and b) provide secured
information on real estate ownership. Information is the key to its justification and
sustainability. However, information is expensive to collect and maintain, yet pivotal to
the development of market economies. Inefficiencies arise where different cadasters are
not integrated within an unified administrative system. Together, the GOA seeks three
parallel missions from the newly created SCA, namely, i) to develop and integrate a
legal cadaster - via an IRC network, focusing on information about location, demarcation
and ownership; ii) to produce a physical cadaster - via a classification taxonomy and
detailed surveys for the purpose of city and/or regional planning, public infrastructure
development and environmental management, etc.; and, iii) to assess with a fiscal
cadaster - via its pre-existing Inventory Bureaus (IBs), providing information esserntial
for the establishment and the efficient operation of property taxation. In sum, for the
GOA to achieve complete transition to a market economy the following major measures
are required:
a) the timely development of a working rural financial system to support
privatized agriculture, farmers, agribusiness and dwellers;
b) the implementation of a registration system for transactions in land and olher
real estate which is capable of standardizing determination of collateral for
working capital and investment loans. These elements that relate to this
project are currently being addressed by the GOA and are briefly described
below.



Chapter 1                                                                  3
1.6   Land Privatization. Before privatization, the cultivated agricultural land areas
within the collective and state farms of the Republic of Armenia consisted of about 46%
of the total area (2,974,000 hectares), of which arable land covered 495,000 hectares,
perennials covered 84,000 hectares, meadows 138,000 hectares, pastures 666,000
hectares, and collective property horticultural unions covered 6,000 hectares. In January,
1991, Arnenia enacted the "Law on the peasant cooperative farms," according to which
three forms of ownership were established: property of citizens, collective property, and
state property. Agricultural land was distributed as private property to more than 320,000
farmers on free of charge basis with area allocated in proportion to family size. However
a five year ban (until 1996) on the sale of land was imposed. The non-land assets of the
dissolved collective and state farms were privatized in the same way (livestock, technical
resources, technology units, etc.). Although farmers were allocated 80% of the arable
land, 20% remained under the community as a reserve fund (and pasture land was held in
state ownership). The land in this fund can be leased by the community council to
individuals for agricultural purposes.
1.7   The privatized land has been distributed by the conmmittees that were established
in the communities according to the following principles: families of up to three persons
were allocated one land parcel. Families consisting of four to six persons received two
land parcels, families with seven or more members got three land parcels. Thus, land was
given to the family and the head of the family was registered as an owner (farmer) and
received a temporary certificate of a right to ownership by the privatization committee.
Since in each of the communities the privatized areas and the number of the land parcels
are different, the sizes of the lands received by the landowners are also different (ranging
from 0.3 to 15 hectares). Today, it is estimated that private agricultural land and dachas
account for 366,000 ha (approximately 26% of all 'rural lands'). To date, 85,000 state
acts have been prepared, while another 250,000 await preparation and issue to land
owners. Due to the lack of fumds from the GOA for investment costs, that process has
slowed down the work and restricted the geographical coverage of the survey mainly to
the agricultural areas near Yerevan. However, the SCA has now been given the authority
to administer the mapping requirements and officiate the registration process, which by
draft law will be based on production of cadastral maps through parcel surveys.
1.8   Establishment of a Property Registration and Property Cadaster System. On
December 27, 1995, the National Assembly passed the "Law on the Real Property," in
which land is defined as real property and owners are given well clarified rights and
obligations to this property. In July 1997, the GOA established a property registration
system by a decree under the "Establishment of the State Cadaster System." According to
this decree, a unified state cadastral service for legal property registration was established
as the State Cadastral Administration (SCA). The main tasks of the SCA are to: (i)
register the specific attributes of individual pieces of land and other real estate (via a
parcel based methodology) - including location and sizes, property owners and their legal
status, rights and obligations or encumbrances such as leases, mortgages, condominium,
and other indemnities, and property sales; (i.e. legal cadaster) and, (ii) accumulate and
distribute data on these attributes as well as those regarding assessed values of real



Chapter 1                                                                  4
property and adjudicate boundary disputes (i.e. physical and fiscal cadasters). Ihe
information will be collected and integrated into the chronologically tabulated cadastral
system, which will be made available to tax authorities, realty enterprises or agents, and
banks and other interested organizations or individuals.
1.9   According to an earlier GOA decree (March, 1996) on the property registration
system, the draft preparation work on property registration and cadastral issues and its
submission to the GOA had been delegated to the Ministries of Urban Developmeint,
Agriculture, Finance and Economy, Justice, and the Yerevan City Municipality. A
commission had been formed from the representatives of these bodies. It was given the
task of developing a draft law on Real Property Registration. This law should give legal
force to the SCA's specific activities and establish the legal principles governing
registration and government accountability for the accuracy of the information in the
registration system.
1.10 The registration system being set up by the SCA will have its units in each of the
marzes (administrative regions) and be responsible not only for the organization of
surveying and mapping, collection of information, issuing of titles, and answering
information requests through title reports, but also for the property dispute adjudication as
well as settling of land problems. They are also to cooperate with different bodies of
justice, such as the notary offices, to document changes connected with the legal status of
property, such as the provision of easement rights' and setflement of disputes occurring
over their use. In cases when the local registry offices of the SCA are not able to resolve
the disputes in the field, the case will be sent to the court to be addressed through the
justice system.
1.11  Complementary Support to Rural Finance The TRP offers important support to
the process of developing sustainable rural finance which is targeted by the Agriculture-
Reform Support Project (ARSP, signed in March 1998). The credit resources flowing to
the rural sector are well below the levels which the current estimated creditworthiness of
the sector would justify (upwards of $30 million annually; see ARSP, SAR pp. 4-5). With
a chronological based registration system, the TRP would serve as a direct link to the
ARSP's credit component This is because an important factor in improving
creditworthiness and alleviating rural credit constraints is the removal of barriers tco
pledging land and other real estate as collateral by generating low-cost information on the
property of potential borrowers.
C. Urban Developments
1.12 Prior to the creation of the SCA, there were Yerevan and Republic Inventory
Bureaus (IBs). Today, these bureaus are placed under SCA's jurisdiction. The Yerevan
and Republic Inventory Bureaus store data by owner and by building address. They
maintain several registers for each community in the country, including a register of
private homes; a register of privatized apartments; a register of privatized commercial and
industrial properties; a register of dachas and garden houses; and a register of garages. In



Chapter I                                                                 5
sum, the lBs work will be the basis of the fiscal cadaster part within the registration
process and SCA's umbrella administrative mission.
1.13  For each property, the bureaus store its ownership history, current ownership
documents, assessed tax value, and various technical information. The ownership history
and current ownership documents are of interest to the legal cadaster development. The
tax value is of minor interest to the legal cadaster but of great interest to the fiscal
cadaster. Although much of the technical information is of little interest to the legal
registration, some of this data will be of to the degree it assists with initial parcel
numbering and formal registration of acts which have been issued to date.
1.14 The Yerevan Inventory Bureau has a computer database with some property
information. Some or all of this data might added to the nationwide property registration
system.
1.15 The Inventory Bureaus are just completing a nationwide tax inventory. This
survey will most likely contain data of interest to the title registration system, especially
the list (registry) of property objects. The Republic Inventory Bureaus' summary report
will be reviewed for planning surveying activities. The report depicts the number of
properties in each marz and former rayon, with breakdowns by categories such as private
homes, multi-unit apartment buildings, garden plots, etc.
D). Agricultural Sector
1.16 During the Soviet regime, the agricultural sector accounted for 18% of Net
Material Product (NMP) compared with 56% for the industrial sector, and most of the
country's food requirements were imported from the other Republics. Following the
collapse of the FSU and the ensuing blockade, Armenia's economy began progressively
to deteriorate, although the agriculture sector began to pick up again in 1993.
Agriculture's share of NMP increased substantially, partly because of the decline in the
other sectors but also thanks to policy reforms reversing the agricultural sectors' decline.
With its limited resource base, Armenia has been specializing in high value horticultural
crops such as grapes, apricots, apples, tomatoes, and a variety of other fiuits and
vegetables largely under irrigation and closely linked to the processing industry. The
privatization of land brought the emergence of 320,000 smallholders and changed,
together with the blockade, the entire picture in the agricultural sector.
1.17  The main reason for the change in cropping pattem is the need for fanners to
secure food self-sufficiency after the collapse of the FSU, the blockade, and the war in
Karabakh. In addition, the collapse of the downstream processing sectors and the
upstream suppliers (typical of most of the CIS republics) has caused a major decline in
production, a loss of soil fertility and a crisis in the livestock sector. As in the past, the
country is a net importer of food - grains, meat and dairy products. Surpluses remain in
fruits and vegetables. Arnenia used to enhance its food self-sufficiency by producing
food from imported base products, such as feed. During the blockade, the domestic food
supply has dropped and food consumption declined. Armenia thus faces the following



Chapter 1                                                                 6
constraints in the agricultural sector: (i) a deteriorating food security; (ii) proe- lion
decline due to inadequate irrigation, shortage of farm inputs (including farm
mechanization), and lack of credit and adequate extension services; and, (iii) limiited
outlets for produce due to lack of packaging materials and spare parts in the processing
sector, and bottlenecks in transport and storage.
1.18 Private Farming. Probably the most significant development in the sector since
independence has been the emergence of small private farms as the main producers of
food and agricultural products. The Government's privatizing of much of the agricultural
land in 1991 and later its issue of Acts in 1995 that give preliminary transfer rights and
security to property owners are viewed as a primary factor. However, over-fragmentation
agricultural land continues to suppress efficient productivity. This is illustrated via two
surveys of small-scale privatization farms, conducted in different districts of Armenia, as
a preparation activity for ARSP. They exhibit that on average, farm households have a
land holding of 1.28 hectares of which 74% is arable, 13% is under perennials (orchards
and vineyards), and 13 % is under hay meadows and pasture. The average family farm
employs 2-3 members of the immediate family, mostly on a part-time basis. All farms in
the survey produced crops, with a diverse crop mix, and 71% of the farners had
livestock. On average farm households consumed 60-70% of their produce and sold the
balance, making them more than subsistence farmers.
1.19  About 75% of farms in the survey indicated that they received income from sdes
of agricultural produce. Among these 75%, average gross revenues from sales were
about 360,000 Dram (US $900) per annum, and average net revenue was about 185,000
Dram (US $465), before payments for family labor. Sales revenues from crops End
livestock are about 70% and 30%, respectively. Farm households in the survey were
found to derive a substantial proportion of their income from non-farn sources, with 51. %
of households indicating that the farm provided less than 50% of the household income.
A further 18% of households derived between 50% and 75% of total household income
from farming. Relative to the equity base and the potential revenue stream, both inpout
and output levels were low, reflecting constraints in accessing high quality inputs, credit,
and information on current technologies. The main sources for funding farm operations
in 1995 were retained earnings and interest free loans from relatives (99% of
respondents). Less than 1% of the respondents reported commercial borrowing. Th1is
evidence further illustrates the need for re-consolidation of land for a more efficient use
of equipment and resources. Proper titling of property will facility such activity.
E. Constraints to Increased Agricultural Productivity
1.20  Credit constraints in Agro-Processing Enterprises and Marketing.  As a
preparatory activity for the recently effective ARSP, a team of consultants have examined
sub-groups of agro-processing enterprises to identify their credit demand and potential
eligibility to participate in borrowing under the IDA Enterprise Development Project
(EDP) which became effective in 1997. The main credit constraints for agro-processing
enterprises at present are the blockade of the country, virtual absence of medium and
long-term loans, very high short-term interest rates (as high as 40-60% per annum after



Chapter 1                                                                 7
inflation), and minimal understanding of mortgage financing.  According to the
investment proposals, the demand for credit is high, due to the need for fixed investments
(especially for quality-control modernization and improvement of packaging), and
working capital. In addition, financing is needed by enterprises supplying farm inputs,
such as fertilizers, agro-chemicals, spare parts and veterinarian medicine.
1.21  Credit for Primary Agricultural Production  During the Soviet period, the main
supplier of credit to agriculture was the Agrobank, which had over 30 branches.
However, the Agrobank was geared to channeling public funds to state enterprises and
clearing payments between them, rather than carrying out retail banking operations.
Following the breakdown of the FSU's banking system, the rural population lost access
to institutional financial services. Over the past three years, there has been virtually no
institutional credit available to large farms, nor to individual farmers. Credit to farms
from the agro-processing sub-sector and marketing and input distribution enterprises was
also reduced, since they were also facing credit shortages. Finally, self-financing was
also reduced, since price liberalization generated strong upward movement in real farm
input prices, and demand fell because of overall reduction of national income. The
resulting severe cost-price squeeze on farm profits has reduced utilization of inputs,
mainly fertilizers and chemicals, and caused a drop in crop yields.
1.22 As a result of land privatization (para. 1.18) and lack of mortgage lending
developments, one of the most critical remaining constraints facing private farms is the
lack of credit. This project seeks to assist with mortgage development by supporting a
cost-effective registration system and delivery of relevant information, which is one step
towards an efficient property market Similarly, the ARSP seeks to promote mortgage
understanding through its extension services and initial credit to promote such
development. Results of the two farm surveys done during ARSP project preparation
(one including about 4,000 respondents and the second about 2,000 respondents) indicate
a broad and substantial demand for credit on the part of rural population, with 53% of the
farmers in the survey indicating that they had a need for credit, in varying amounts up to
AMD 300,000 (US $600 equivalent), with the most commonly requested credit terms
being 6-12 months at interest rates 1-3 percent per month. At the same time there is
significant part of comparatively large privatized former collective farms (up to 200 ha)
that have a great need of medium term loans for amounts up to $50,000.
1.23  Demand for rural credit for small-scale agriculture has been estimated based on
analysis of the fann surveys and summary data provided by the Agricultural Cooperative
Bank of Armenia (ACBA) from  submitted preliminary loan application forms.
According to this data, about 25% of the sample were found to have adequate repayment
capacity to repay a 9-month, average-sized loan of AMD 250,000 (US $500 equivalent)
priced at an annual percentage rate of up to 36%, with a cash coverage ratio of 1.50 or
higher. These fanns projected a return of 61% on their total costs (farm profit divided by
total cost), suggesting that even relatively high market interest rates may not be a major
impediment to borrowing. If, like the ACBA loan application sample, 25% of the
312,900 small farms reported to be operating in Armenia have the ability to repay
average seasonal loans of US $500 (at 36% annual interest with a coverage ratio of 1.50),
then total potential credit demand is on the order of AMD 19.6 billion (US $39.1)



Chapter 1                                                                  8
million. An additional survey of large farms, carried out in the fall of 1996, also revealed
a strong demand for credit. The estimated total number of large private farms is 409. The
average demand for financing by one large farm is about $50,000, including 'both
seasonal and investment credit. Based on this average and an estimated eligibility rate of
about 30%, and a repayment capacity similar to that of small farms, the total demancd for
credit by large private farms might be on the order of US $6 to $7 million. Investraent
priorities included procurement of agricultural mechanization, land purchase, small-scale
agro-processing facilities, agricultural buildings, livestock, establishment of new
orchards, and refrigeration (in descending order of indicated preference). A surprisiiigly
high number of farms also expressed high priority for seasonal credit, giving a fair
indication of the degree to which the agricultural sector is devoid of cash.
1.24 Rural Land Tenure. As a result of the particular method followed for privati2ing
agricultural lands in Armenia, land has become fragmented. Each family in each riral
community was given four to five parcels of land, one of each category of land which had
made up the former collective. Thus, each family was given non-contiguous plots of
cropland, vineyards, perennials, hayfields, and pasture, with each plot averaging about
0.3 hectares. In order to achieve more efficient use of land and effective use of
agricultural machinery, it is necessary to establish a land market, which will allow,
through sales, exchanges, and leases, the initiation of the land consolidation process. lhe
growth of a land market and its activities will be assisted by the creation of a title
registration system, including the issuing of land deeds (state acts) to the farmers. The
state acts give the landowner tangible proof that he is the initial legal owner of the land.
They also serve as a guarantee by the state to market agents that land can be used as
collateral in return for receiving input advances, loans, or other financing instrumenits.
The various activities involved in a title registration system, e.g., surveying, mappinig,
preparation of titles, has been examined during the past two years of the Title
Registration Pilot financed jointly by the World Bank Institution Building Loan for
Anrenia and by resources from USAID. The experience of this pilot and its staff have
been directly transferred to the State Cadastral Administration, which is now in charge of
establishing and operating the title registration system.
F. Bank's Experience and Strategy
1.25 Bank's Role and Past Assistance to Armenia The project would support areas
where the Bank has considerable experience. The lessons learned from the various title
registration activities, projects and components under implementation and preparation in
the ECA region (especially Georgia, Moldova, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Romania,
Slovenia, but also in other countries such as Thailand) have also been incorporated inl'o
the design of the this project. One of the major challenges of this project has been to
resolve the institutional responsibility issue of which ministry or agency should rnanage
an integrated registry of both rural and urban land and real estate. Over the course of two
years of project preparation, this issue was continuously explored with the GOA, which
decided in July 1997 to place this responsibility with the newly created State Cadastrad
Administration.



Chapter 1                                                                  9
1.26 Experience from the first rural sector Bank project in Armenia (the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project (IRP)), shows that the Government can administer and implement
a project within an agreed timetable if the objectives are clearly defined. The IRP also
has demonstrated the importance of contingencies (in light of cost escalation due to the
earthquake, technical assistance, especially to coordinate operational (procedural) and
technical (design, equipment specification) issues simultaneously in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank.
1.27 Strategy for Assistance in the Agricultural Sector Soon after independence in
1991, Armnenia took steps to liberalize its economy in general, and the agricultural sector
in particular, by introducing major reform programs. The Armenian land privatization
program is unique among former Soviet Republics in regard to the speed and
completeness of its implementation. At the request of the Governnent of Armenia, to
ensure the successful implementation of these programs, an FAO/CP mission visited
Armenia in April/May 1994 and assisted the Government in identifying a project that
would support the agricultural reform programs. A prior mission from the World Bank
visited Armenia in May/June of 1993 and prepared a review of the sector (Armenia: The
Challenge of Reform in the Agricultural Sector) which reported on the status of food and
agricultural sector in the Republic of Armenia during the first yearF of the privatized
primary agriculture. It also presented an assessment of the process of the sectoral reforms
needed to complete the transition to a market based agricultural sector. The most critical
issues that will determine the future success of reforms in the sector and the recovery of
food and agriculture in general are:
(a)    developing a working competitive domestic market for agricultural
products and agricultural sector services, required to accelerate the: (i)
privatization of the remaining agro-industrial entexprises; (ii) de-
monopolization of the distribution, input supply, and product market; and
(iii) facilitation of the entry of foreign capital and firms into domestic
agro-processing, input distribution and support services;
(b)    developing a financial intermediary system that can meet the rural
sector's credit needs;
(c)    developing an institutional framework that is consistent with the needs of
a market-based agriculture and emphasizes the state's role in supporting
the private sector through setting standards and regulations and providing
public goods and services such as extension services, research, and
education focused on the needs of privatized agriculture;
(d)    and, development and implementation of a title registration and
information system to provide security of tenure, full information on land
transactions, and a repository for property assessment information;
preparation and implementation of a program to promote the emergence
of land markets to support land consolidation and move towards a more
efficient holding structure; establishment of a competitive land mortgage
and credit system;



Chapter 1                                                                10
1.28 Specific measures to implement the policy recommendations outlined in a-c
above are incorporated into the cunrent Agricultural Reform Support Project (AR'SP).
The Title Registration Project (TRP) as proposed in the following chapter will reinforce
the latter policy needs by launching a legal title registration system (in both rural and
urban areas).
1.29 Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Agricultural Sector The proposal
project is IDA's third operation supporting Armenia's agricultural sector; following the
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP), which became effective in mid-1995 and the
Agricultural Reform Support Project (ARSP), which became effective in early September
1998. Furthermore, a number of other projects in the ECA Region were examined during
the design and appraisal phases of this project. The most important one was the 1998
Romania General Cadaster Project designed to accelerate land reforms. Design of this
project also took into account the experience gained under the registration component of
the Georgia Agriculture Project, Kazakhstan's Pilot Registration Program, Moldova's
First Cadaster Project, and preparation of the proposed Slovenia Land Cadaster Project.
Significant design elements of the above mentioned projects were built into this proposed
TRP.



Chapter 2                                                                 11
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1   During discussion of the agricultural sector review "Armenia: The Challenge of
Reform in the Agricultural Section" (prepared by the Bank in 1993-94), the GOA
requested financial assistance to the rural sector for investment activities that would
support the policy measures targeted by the GOA to revive production and exports. This
request led to the preparation of materials for the proposed project during 1996, by
consultants engaged under a PHRD grant from the Govenmment of Japan. Major issues
considered during the project preparation and appraisal in 1997-98 were as follows: (i)
the most appropriate and cost effective system of title registration and development of
property markets; and subsequently (ii) the capacity of the banking system to meet the
credit needs of small and large farmers and the justification for supporting mortgage-
based finance.
2.2   Project implementation could commence as early as December 1998 after
receiving approval of the credit for the TRP from IDA and acceptance of this credit by
the National Assembly of Republic of ATmenia.
B. Project Objectives and Description
2.3   The overall objective of the TRP is to promote private sector development by
increasing: (a) the productivity and value of land and other immovable assets through
secured property rights; and, (b) the efficiency of rural and urban property markets. The
project seeks to implement transparent, parcel-based, easily accessible, and reliable
registration system which chronologically defines the property owners and their rights
and obligations. The secondary objectives are to reduce high transaction costs to title
transfer and mortgage finance, to facilitate the use of property as collateral, and promote
consolidation of fragmented rural land ownership. The TRP aims to achieve these
objectives through three components: (i) establishing a network of information and
registration centers (IRCs) to provide locally-based capacity for initial systematic
registration and recording of property transactions; (ii) supporting privately contracted
systematic surveys and production of cadastral maps; and, (iii) equipping and operating a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
2.4   Summary of Project Scope To support the above objectives, the proposed project
would provide assistance for the establishment a title registration system administered by



Chapter 2                                                                  12
the State Cadastral Administration (SCA) to cover all eleven marzes, albeit to varying
degrees of intensity Project design has carefully taken into account the results of the Plilot
Title Registration Project which the GOA executed in 1994-1996 with support of USAID
and the Institution Building Loan supported by IDA. The project implementation will be
guided by dated covenants including of legal framework development (supported by
USAID) as well as survey and registration manuals laying out their componient
methodologies.
Marzes targeted for        Marzes selected for a limited number of
concentrated systematic    systematic property surveys and formal
surveying and formal title  title registration
registration
City of Yerevan            Gegharkounik
Aragatsotn                 Lori
Ararat                     Siunik
Annavir                    Shirak
Kotaik                     Tauosh
Vaik
2.5   Since widespread privatization of rural land and urban dwellings have made
significant changes in boundaries and land use over the past decade, the collection of dhata
on ownership and boundaries through survey and cadastral mapping is a particularly
complex task. To keep per unit costs down for individual pieces of land and other real
estate (in the marzes where intensive demand for the registration system's information is
expected) a systematic survey approach will be implemented. A sporadic method of
surveying individual land plots on demand by owners will be applied in marzes where
expected demand for title registration information does not warrant systematic
adjudication and cadastral mapping activities. The results of the plot surveys will be
organized into cadastral map representations and linked to the data fields on ownership
status. Each transfer of ownership, mortgage, lease, and other encumbrance regarding a
particular piece of real estate will be registered into the title system and be available to
the general public for query.
2.6   Definitive establishment of the legal framework is primary for this project t3
move forward. The next step towards this is to finalize a Title Registration Law and
achieve passage by the Arnmenia Parliament. Critiques of the governing body of
legislation on title registration and a recent draft Title Registration Law have beei
provided by the International City/County Management Association (CMA, a contractor
to USAID) specialists and other consultants during project preparation. The law currently
in draft form will determine the scope and cost recovery (i.e. fees) for the title registration
system's development. To provide additional legal support to this process, USAID has
tendered a two year contract that will build on the past work of the Title Registration
Pilot. This programn commenced in July 1998 and will address the definition of cosi:
effective norms and procedures for gathering the exact forms of data which are to be
included in the registration system; details of the state's guarantees of registry
infonnation; and the precision of survey methods to which the SCA will adhere. With a



Chapter 2                                                               13
properly outlined system, subsequent process issues will be resolved based on market
requirements and budget constraints of the SCA. During re-examination of project
appraisal documents in April-May, 1998, it was determined that USAID's program will
sufficiently cover most of the technical assistance requirements of the SCA and its
constituent bodies.
2.7   During the TRP implementation period, the strengths and weaknesses of
approaches and methodologies will be continually assessed and revised, especially in the
area of parcel identification (surveying and cadastral mapping). The experience gained as
a result of implementation will have critical significance for planning the extension of the
title registration system to intensively cover the rest of the country.
Component 1: Establishment of the IRC Network (US $2.919 million)
2.8   The creation of the Information and Registration Centers (IRCs) is the key to the
system building process. The IRC network would narrow the current information gap
which deters property market development by acting as data clearing houses for both
entry and retrieval of information. Their service fees will be based on statutory law and
over time the IRC network will become a completely self-financing non-profit entity.
However, it must be noted that rural centers may require assistance from the more
profitable operations in areas of higher transactions demand. Therefore, the SCA's fees
may be redistributed accordingly. Financing of the equipment and other operating costs
of the IRCs are provided for under the TRP, with support for operating costs gradually
phased out over the course of the project. The specific expenditures under this component
will provide financing to:
*  Equip and furnish a central information center and 11 fully functional local
offices;
*  Design, procure and install the IRC computer information network to manage
the data produced;
* Build the personnel of IRC network through international and short-term local
consultants, who will provide technical assistance, training and administrative
support;
* Support the non-labor operating costs of the IRC network at a decreasing rate
over the TRP implementation period.
2.9   The TRP's initial investment under this component will be the equipping of 7
local IRCs in Project Year 1 (PYI) and 4 in PY2 (out of a total 25 IRCs). The number of
these local offices will vary between 2-4 in each marz in five targeted marzes. The
remaining six marzes will be limited to one or two IRCs each. The EU-FSP is currently
financing the initial equipping of 14 IRCs, but will not finance not in future cover any of
their operating or equipment maintenance costs. The equipment maintenance costs for all
25 IRCs and the Central IRC will be 90% financed by the project under service contracts.



Chapter 2                                                                14
Component 2: Surveying and Cadastral Mapping (US $6.121 million)
2.10 This component supports the SCA's cadastral map production. The process
includes data collection, surveying, and production of cadastral maps. The specific
expenditures under this component will provide financing to:
*  Equip and furnish the Mapping Center
* Contract satellite imagery and finance GPS grid enhancement work,
orthophotomapping, revision of available survey data, and contract systemnatic
cadastral surveys;
* Support the non-labor operating costs of the Surveying and Mapping works at
a decreasing rate over the TRP implementation period.
2.11  For broad coverage and cost effectiveness, the TRP will develop a unique parcel
numbering system, using existing maps and selected satellite imagery; the latter is to be
executed in areas where changes in land tenure and dwelling occupancy have occuired
quickly and base maps are therefore outdated. The surveying approach being adopted
will utilize global positioning system receivers (GPS) and "total stations" for quicker
surveying and more accurate creation of cadastral maps where base maps are outdated,
non-existent, or available in scales which cannot show newly created small plots. All
survey work will be performed via private contractors to promote competition, efficiency,
and timely execution As the registration process evolves, more precise surveys would be
executed upon request (and on a fee basis), for example, if a bank required an updaled
survey of a specific property for a mortgage. The updated survey and pending mortgage
would then become a part of that parcel's registration history.
2.12 Armenia has approximately 950 villages in which private farm land and dachas
account for some 365,000 ha. On average there about 350 fazm families per village, each
of which typically owns a homestead plot and 3-4 separate plots with an average plot size
of 0.3 ha each. Thus, in rural areas, the TRP will finance the costs of 80 rural village
survey updates (for villages partially surveyed in the past by Giprozem) and complete
surveys of 336 villages.. The estimated cost per village for a complete survey is about
US$ 9,000 and about US$ 4,000 for a survey update In rural areas, each survey contract
will cover on average four villages and encompass roughly 4,800 land parcels and 1,360
homesteads.. Under the methodology for the rural surveys, only the village boundaries
and private plots will be surveyed, while the common areas are to be surveyed at a later
time.
2.13 Similarly, within the urban focus of this project, surveying will include 30
km2 with high density in Yerevan and 150 km2 with minimal detail or less dwellings per
square km in Yerevan and marz capitals. The urban survey costs are estimated to be US'
17,000 and US$ 9,000 per km2 for high density and minimal detail (low density) areas,
respectively. Each of the contracts for high density areas will cover the surveying of 4
km2 and include an estimated 8,000 buildings, private dwellings, and apartments. The
schedule proposed for implementation of the surveys to be contracted is as follows:



Chapter 2                                                              15
Village       Village        Yerevan         Urban
Updates       Compete          Full         Minimal
(# of Villages)  (# of Villages)  (Krn2)        (Km2)
PY1                 20             80             10             30
PY2                 20             80             7.5            36
PY3                 20             80             7.5            36
PY4                 20             96              5             48
Total               80            336             30            150
In sum, private survey contracts covering about 50% of the land and other pieces of real
property in the country will be targeted for registration in the national system over the
four years of the TRP. This will extend to 416 villages and the 10 largest cities and
towns in Armenia, including Yerevan.
2.14 Shared Responsibilities Data from the surveys will be digitally inputted into a
data storage and retrieval system that will be kept at the local IRC office. Periodic
summary reports will be prepared locally and sent to the center via database exchange.
Since there are various sources of data regarding property that could become a part of the
registry, the Title Registration Law will need to first define the inputs (TA has been
contracted by USAID to target this task as mentioned above).  Thus, the data
management system will therefore be flexible to adapt as the legal framework and survey
precision are decided.
Component 3: Project Implementation Unit (US $0.602 million)
2.15 The PIU was created by the SCA to coordinate and oversee implementation of the
IRC Network and Surveying and Mapping components of the project. It will be headed
by a full-time employed Project Manager. The specific expenditures under this
component will provide fiancing to contract technical and administrative staff (see
Annex B for details), to purchase office furnishings, computer equipment, and a vehicle,
and to the PIU's operating expenditures.
C. Cost Estimates
2.16 The total cost of the project, is estimated at US $10.57 million (Table 2.1). About
US $1.91 million or 18% of the total are foreign costs and US $8.66 million are local
expenditures. These estimates are based on prices prevailing in the international market
during the period June-September 1997 and on local cost data from August 1998.
Physical contingencies of 4% and price contingencies of 5.6% have been added to the
base (US $9.64 million). The price contingencies are in line with Bank guidelines but
reflect less than the full amount of projected dollar inflation because prices of computer
and survey technologies (a large share of project equipment) are expected to continue to
decline. Physical contingencies are reasonable given the adjustment at negotiations in the
SAR survey cost estimates from $20 to $25 per rural property owner. During the
implementation of the Pilot Title Registration Project, rural survey costs have ranged



Chapter 2                                                   I         16
from US $15-30 per rural property owner, who typically own a dwelling plot and three to
four separate agricultural plots totaling on average about 1.2 ha. Physical and price
contingencies amount to 9.6% of the project's base cost. The project cost is denominated
in US dollar terms because of an underlying assumption that the exchange rate between
the Armenian dram and the US dollar will depreciate at an average rate that compensates
for dram inflation and leaves the real exchange rate unchanged. This assumption is based
on the observed path of the dram rate over the period February 1996-September 1998,
which has maintained a largely constant real value vis-&-vis the US dollar.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary (US $ million)
National    Foreign      Total    % ForeigrL   % of
Exchange    Cost
IRC Network                     1.747       1.172       2.919      40.2%     30.2%
Surveying and Cadastral Mapping  5.618      0.503       6.121      8.2%      63.5%
Project Implementation Unit     0.531       0.071       0.602      11.8%     6.3%
Total Allocated                 7.896       1.746       9.642      18.1%    100.0%
Contingencies                   0.760       0.168       0.928      18.1%     9.6%
Total Project Cost              8.655       1.914       10.569     18.1%    109.6%
D. Financing
2.17 The IDA credit in the amount of US $8.0 million would be lent to the
Government of Armenia at standard IDA terms with 35 years' maturity and a 10-year
grace period. The share of the IDA credit is equivalent to 76% of total project cost. The
GOA would contribute US $2.6 million equivalent, or about 24% of total project cosits.
Prior to negotiations, the GOA confirmed its intentions to provide appropriate
contributions that are necessary to fulfill its share in the project financing of the local
currency components and ensure adequate and timely project implementation. The
financing plan for the project is presented in Table 2.2 below. Grant co-financiing
possibilities have been discussed with several donors that have indicated interest in
providing for the technical assistance needs of the project. At present USAID is initiating
a contract for TA aimed at legal support as noted above. In addition, the EU-Food
Security Program provided (in late 1997) a grant of $2.9 million for computers arnd
surveying equipment for the Central IRC and the Mapping Center, computer equipment
for 14 of the 25 local IRC offices, and extending the rural land surveying process.
Table 2.2: Financing Plan (US $ million)
National       Foreign       Total
IDA                           6.086          1.914         8.000
Government of Annenia         2.569          0.000         2.569
Total Project Costs           8.655          1.914        10.569



Chapter 2                                                               17
E. Procurement
2.18 Procurement arrangements for goods and services to be financed under the
project, and their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are presented
below. All procurement of goods to be financed from the IDA credit proceeds would be
procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995,
revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997), and using the Bank's
Standards Bidding Documents. For procurement under NCB, the Borrower will use
Regional, standardized bidding documents. Consultants would be selected in accordance
with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers (January 1997 and revised September 1997). A "General Procurement Notice"
containing information about bidding opportunities for procurement on the basis of ICB
will be published in the August 1998 issue of "Development Business" in accordance
with Paras. 2.7 and 2.8 of the IBRD Guidelines.
2.19 Specific procurement arrangements and thresholds are provided in detail in
Annexes E (Procurement and Disbursement Plans) and F (Thresholds for Procurement
Methods). Equipment (estimated to cost US $0.62 million) to be purchased under the
project would consist of vehicles, computers, office furnishings and survey equipment.
Equipment would be procured using ICB, IS, and NS procedures. Goods and services
required that are less than or equal to US $25,000 would be procured using National
Shopping (NS) procedures, and contracts between US $25,000 and US $200,000 would
use International Shopping (IS) procedures. Contracts for over US $200,000 would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
2.20 Field survey contracts under the survey and mapping component are estimated to
cost a total of US$ 5.6 million. Execution of these survey contracts would involve
adjudication of land boundaries, which requires intimate knowledge of national
conditions, customs and language. Therefore, they will be procured through NCB (using
a slice and package approach). Taking into consideration the specifics of these survey
contracts, it is expected that that the average size of a slice would be about US$ 30,000.
To achieve greater economy and efficiency these slices would be grouped into packages
of US$ 150,000-200,000.
2.21  Technical services for satellite imagery and aerial photography (estimated to cost
a total US$ 0.17 million) will be procured through international shopping owing to a
limited number of qualified fmns. Maintenance services for survey equipment (estimated
to cost a total of US$ 0.05 million) will be procured through a direct contract with the
local affiliate of Leica, since all of the SCA's survey equipment (21 GPS receivers and
total stations) provided through the EU-FSP grant have been supplied by Leica, and Leica
is the only producer of survey equipment to have a local affiliate in Arnenia. Although
the TRP is financing the purchase of three additional total stations (under IS procedures),
the majority of the SCA survey equipment to be used under the TRP will have been
supplied by Leica.



Chapter 2                                                                                       :18
Table 23: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US $ millions)
Procurement Methods                        Total
Project                                       ICB   NCB   Other    NBF   Cost
1      Goods             Equipment and              0.485                  0.130                  0.615
Machinety                 (0.461)               (0.124)                (0.584)
2      Technical Services                                      6.155       0.227                  6.382
(5.539)   (0.204)                 (5.744)
3      Consultancies
3.1               Technical Assistance                             0.329                  0.329
(0.329)                (0.329)
3.2               Training                                         0.102                  0.102
(0.102)                (0.102)
3.3               Project                                          0.435                  0.435
Implementation                                  (0.435)                (0.435)
Consultants
4      Miscellaneous
4.1               Operating Costs for                              1.361                  1.361
IRC Network and                                 (0.731)                (0.731)
Mapping Center
4.2               Operating Costs for                              0.075                  0.075
PIU                                             (0.075)                (0.075)
4.3               IRC and Mapping                                              1.270
Center Salaries
Total                                               0.485      6.155       2.659      1.270    10.569
(0.461)  (5.539)   (2.000)          (-)      (8.000)
GOA Share                                            0.024   0.616    0.659           1.270      2.569
Notes:
I/ Decimals may not add up exactly due to rounding
2/Other procurement methods under the TRP loan include: intemational shopping for survey equipment ($43,800),
office fumishings and equipment ($71,800), and satellite imagery ($164,400); national shopping for vehicles
($14,800) and for vehicle maintenance services ($15,900); direct contracting for survey equipment maintenance
services ($47,100); QCBS and I (quality and cost based selection and individual) methods for consultant services
(S0.866 million); and operating costs for the IRC Network and the Mapping Center ($1,361,500) and for the PIU
($74,500), which are defined to include expenditures on office materials and minor maintenance, supplies, utilities,
conununications, vehicle operation and minor maintenance, office rent (PIU only), and auditing costs (PIU only), but
excluding salaries.
2.22 Consultant services. Technical assistance and training requirements under the
project would amount to US $0.43 million. Included in this total are: 10 staff-months for
the basic registration support and mapping technical assistance. Project implementation



Chapter 2                                                              19
consultants in the Project Implementation Unit, and the Mapping and Public Information
Centers for the title registration would be contracted on an individual basis by the PIU to
assist with the coordination of the TRP's components as described in the terms of
reference in Annex A.
2.23 Review by the Bank. All ICB contracts, the first two NS and NCB contracts for
each of the procurement categories (Equipment and Technical Services), the first IS
contract regardless of its value, and all contracts for consulting services valued in excess
of US $100,000 for firms and US $50,000 for individual consultants, would be subject to
prior review and approval by IDA. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review
by IDA. Terms of reference for all consultant contracts would be reviewed in advance
by IDA. Procurement information would be included in the quarterly project progress
reports prepared by the PIU.
2.24  Project launch. During project pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in 1997 and a
follow-up to the appraisal in April 1998, the Project Preparation Unit and the project
beneficiaries have been provided with an overview of the Bank's procurements practices.
The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the procurement in accordance
with the Bank's procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training, mainly by
the procurement teams in the ARSP and Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) PIUs,
which have three years of experience with Bank procurement procedures, and through use
of the Standard Bidding Documents. Agreement was reached at Negotiations that all
procurement activities under the project wouldfollow the procedures outlined in Paras.
2.18 to 2.23 (Para 5.3(c)).
F. Disbursement
2.25 The proposed IDA Credit of US $8.0 million equivalent would be disbursed over
four calendar years, until the project's close on December 31, 2002. Based on the
experience of the IRP to date, a disbursement profile for the TRP has been prepared.
Talcing into account this experience and knowledge gained during project preparation, it
is reasonable to assume that the Credit's proceeds could be fully disbursed over the four
years. A mid-term evaluation to examine all aspects of project implementation would be
undertaken by IDA and the Borrower by December 31, 2000, or when disbursements
reach 50% of the total credit amount, whichever is earlier. Commitments for major
contracts would be approved through June 30, 2002. Estimated annual disbursements
under the IDA Credit (by fiscal year, July 1-June 30) are shown in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4: IDA Disbursements Projections (US $ millions)
FY 1999    FY 2000      FY 2001     FY 2002   FY 2003
Annual                         1.093      1.999        1.699       1.650     0.857
Cumulative                     1.093      3.092        4.791       6.441     7.298
Cumulative Contingencies       0.105      0.298        0.461       0.620     0.702
Grand Total - Cumulative       1.199      3.389        5.251       7.061    8,000.0
2.26 The Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as shown in Table 2.5 below:



Chapter 2                                                              20
2.27 Direct payment procedures from IDA to suppliers would be used. Disbursemtents
against the categories described in Table 2.5 would be made upon receipt by IDA of fully
documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US $200,000 for goods
and technical services, US $100,000 for consulting firms and US $50,000 for individual
consultants, which would be made against certified statements of expenditures (SOE).
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower and made
available to IDA during supervision. The minimum size of application for direct
withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20% of
the amount .of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account. All withdrawals for
training would be done on the basis of an SOE, with all Term of Reference (TORs) for
training subject to prior review.
Table 2.5: Disbursement Categories (US $ million)
Disbursement Category     Allocation          Disbursement Basis
(1) Goods - Equipment and      0.533      100% of foreign expenditures, 1000%
Machinery                                 of local expenditures (ex-factory cost),
and 90% of expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2) Technical Services         5.314      100% of foreign expenditures,
90% of local expenditures
(3) Consultancies              0.790      100%
(4) Operating Costs for IRC    0.593      on a declining basis, 75% until
Network and Mapping Center               January 1, 2000; 60% until January 1,
2001; 40% until January 1, 2002, and
20% thereafter
(5) PIU - Operating Costs      0.068      100%
(6) Unallocated                0.702
(7) TOTAL                      8.000
2.28 To facilitate implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in a
major foreign commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. During the
early stage of the Project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to
US $500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have
reached the level of US $1,500,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to thie
Authorized  Allocation  of US  $1,000,000.   Documentation  requirements for
replenishment of the Special Account would include reconciled bank statements and
other appropriate supporting documents.
2.29 At Negotiations, agreement was reached that disbursement arrangements wil'l
follow the procedures described in Paras. 2.25 to 2.27 and for establishing and operating
the Special Account as described above ( Para. 2.28) (Paras. 5.3 (d) and (e)).



Chapter 3                                                             21
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1   The project would be carried out under the overall coordination and supervision of
the State Cadastral Administration (SCA), through the Project Management Board
(PMB). The Project Preparation Unit was transformed into the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) on July 17, 1998. The PIU Manager has been selected in consultation with
the Bank and will be the principal linkage between the Bank and the GOA for the TRP.
The PIU is responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the TRP.
3.2   Project Implementation Unit. The PIU was created by the SCA to coordinate and
oversee implementation of the IRC Network and Surveying and Mapping components of
the project. It will be headed by the full-time employed Project Manager, and includes
technical and administrative staff (see Annex B for details). The PIU is responsible for:
(a) providing information to, and seeking guidance about the project
implementation issues from the MOA, the Ministry of Urban Development
(MUD), the Ministry of Finance and Economy, SCA, and Project
Management Board (PMB);
(b) coordinating and managing the recruitment of foreign and national consultants
required by the registration and mapping components;
(c) ensuring that all procurement contracts are in conformity with IDA's
guidelines;
(d) preparing and submitting for the IDA's review the annual work plans and
consolidated semi-annual progress reports;
(e) maintaining an account of project activities and expenditures; and
(f) coordinating the monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
3.3   Aside from being responsible for overall coordination of project activities, the
PIU would also assurne direct responsibility for the project-related work of the IRC
network (para. 3.5) and the Mapping Center (para. 3.6). All staff in the PIU would be
hired on one year contracts renewable annually for the duration of the project. The PIU
would be disbanded at the end of the project.



Chapter 3                                                                22
3.4   Project Management Board. As mentioned above, a unified registration system of
real property was established by GOA resolution in July, 1997. The State Cadastal
Administration (under the Ministry of Justice until June 15, 1998) was given
responsibility for coordinating the surveying, mapping, titling, and data management. for
all land and other real estate in Armenia. Data management extends to recording property
assessments, and information on property transaction, including leases, mortgages, and
other encumbrances. The title registration system should be independent and must
protect the interests of individuals, various organizations and ministries. However, to
assure that the TRP funds allocated to the SCA are used to execute the process of title
registration in rural areas as equally as in Armenia's cities and towns, this project will be
supervised by the PMB (on which representatives of the Ministry of Finance and
Economy and the SCA will be present). The PMB will monitor the allocation by the PIU
of adequate funds to rural areas for maintenance of property registration offices and
surveying and mapping activities as agreed in the SCA's business plan (final version
August 1998) which has been discussed with the TRP PIU and the Bank.
3.5   IRC Network. As a basis for efficient execution of the Title Registralion
objectives, the PIU will work directly with the SCA to organize the procurement of
equipment and necessary devices, establishment and furnishing of offices, training of the
personnel, and organization of all other tenders. Under the SCA's umbrella, a network of
Information & Registration Centers (IRCs) and a MapFping Center have been established.
The central IRC will direct an information campaign aimed at the local level, will hold
meetings with the property owners to explain to them the significance and importance of
title registration activities and the type of information that will be maintained in the
registry. The central IRC will also maintain direct links to local IRCs in the various
mames in order to manage the information flow from these local offices. The local IRCs
will supervise contractor surveyor groups, providing them with agreed equipment,
monitoring the work done, processing information received, and adjudicating land
disputes.
3.6   Mapping Center. The Mapping Center will lead the process of fmnalizing the
technical standards for surveying and agreed cadastral mapping procedures. It will also
supervise the definition of technical specifications and logistics for the surveying
contracts in direct cooperation with the IRC network. Various former state-run survey
enterprises exist, and many of them are being trained and certified in the use of high
efficiency land surveying equipment. Private land surveying enterprises are now also
being set up, which are also going through the training and certification program operated
by the SCA. Since one of the goals of this project is to foster the development of private
land surveying companies by bidding out all survey contracts, the Mapping Center will
continue to organize training courses, assisted by international experts, to instruct
potential bidders on the use of pre-detennined means of surveying, including the global
positioning systems (GPS) and total stations technologies. Those enterprises which have
already completed or will successfully complete the training will be pre-qualified to
participate in the tenders for survey contracts.



Chapter 3                                                                23
B. Accounts and Auditing
3.7   Separate project accounts would be maintained by the PIU for the disbursements
made under each of the TRP's components. Semi-annual statements of all these accounts
would be submitted to the Director of the PIU, who would use them as a source of
information for management report on the status of project implementation.
3.8  Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would conduct an annual audit of the
project's special accounts. The selection of an auditing firm acceptable to IDA will be a
dated covenant in the Development Credit Agreement. Certified copies of these audits
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year.
The cost of these audits during the first five years would be bome by the project. The
PIU would arrange with the IRC network and Mapping Center to have their accounts and
financial statements audited in accordance with international auditing standards by
independent auditors. The cost of these audits would be borne by the individual entity.
The scope and content of the audits would be agreed in advance with IDA. Certified
copies of the auditors' report would be retained by PIU for subsequent review by IDA
missions and as a source of information for monitoring sub-borrowers' financial
performance. Assurance on the above was received at Negotiations (para. 5.3 (g).
C. Reporting and Evaluation
3.9   The PIU staff would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the impact of
the project. The Chief Cadastral Specialist of the SCA Mapping Center and of the
Central IRC will monitor the implementation of the project's two components.
3.10 Reporting. The PIU staff would prepare semi-annual analyses of the project's
financial management and implementation progress towards meeting the project's
development objectives. These analyses would be consolidated by the PIU Director into
a Financial Management and Implementation Report to be submitted to IDA within 60
days of the end of the period under review. The financial management sections of these
reports would include detailed examinations of the project's procurement and
disbursement status, including an analysis of contracts tendered, awarded, and concluded,
actual payments made on contracts compared to previously forecast payments broken
down by disbursement category and project component, etc. The final set of financial
management reporting tables is included in the Project Implementation Plan for the TRP,
as thefinalformat of the Financial Management and Implementation Report was agreed
on at negotiations. The sections of this report dealing with implementation progress
would compile the set of monitoring indicators for the development objectives (see Table
4.1), present a brief description of the accomplishments of each of the project's
components, and highlight problems encountered during inplementation.
3.11  The proposed plan for Project supervision envisages an average of two
supervision missions per year. The skill mix of sulpervision staff would ensure the
presence of adequate IDA experts in cadastral mapping, information systems, and
financial management, as well as knowledge of Bank/IDA procurement and disbursement



Chapter 3                                                                24
rules, as necessary. A mid-term review is planned for NoVember, 2000 (earlier if
considered necessary), at which time progress towards meeting Project objectives would
be assessed.
3.12 Implementation Completion Report. Promptly after completion of the project, the
PIU staff would prepare a report on the execution of each component, its costs, and the
benefits derived. The PIU Director would consolidate these reports and add an evaluation
of the performance of the institutions which took part in project implementation. The
consolidated report would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the closing
date. Agreement of the above, as reflected in Paras. 3.9-3.11, was reached at
Negotiations (prar 5.3(f)).
3.13  IDA's monitoring would focus on:
(a) the performance of the IRCs, including the training programs, business plans
and data collection;
(b) the impact of loans and registrations on production and productivity;
(c) the rate and cost of parcels' survey and property title issuance; and,
(d) the pace of compilation of data on property transactions and collections of
registration fees.



Chapter 4                                                              25
4. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A. Benefits
4.1   The primary beneficiaries of this project are the small farms, small to medium-
sized enterprises, and urban home owners of Armenia. Title registration would be a
particularly important social safety aspect for land owners, who could generate income by
leasing their land, with the assurance that they have secure title. Over the long run, title
registration is expected to increase the efficiency of the land market by reducing the cost
of land transactions. This in turn would improve the turnover and consolidation of land
holdings and facilitate the use of real property as collateral and greater availability of
investment finance. Both of these steps would improve the productivity of agriculture in
Armenia. These objectives will be supported in rural areas by the ARSP components
which focus on as credit to farmers and agricultural institutionaal building, which provide
a large range of financial, development, extension and information support to private
farmers.
4.2   Although the project is expected to generate substantial benefits, it is not possible
to measure these benefits using conventional economic analysis. However, with the
removal of financial distortions and subsidies agreed recently under the Structural
Adjustment Credits I and II and with sub-loans to enterprises widely required to have a
high positive financial rate of return (on the order of 20% and higher), the project is
expected to yield a rate of return higher than the opportunity cost of capital (15%). The
project would also have a positive impact on Governnent revenue due to the increase in
the tax base brought about by the title registration program and the improved incomes of
both enterprises and farmers. An enumeration of the qualitative benefits expected from
the project's components is presented below.
4.3   Real Property Registration would accomplish the following:
(a)    Reduction of land transactions costs by introducing a title registration
system that will facilitate land leasing, exchange, and sales transactions in
agriculture at fair market prices;
(b)    Promote investment in land by ensuring land and real property ownership
rights and enhancing the development of land sale and rental markets;
(c)    Promotion of collateral-based lending throughout the economy by



Chapter 4                                                                 26
adequately registering transaction information regarding specific pieces
of real estate and making it available to the general public; and,
(d)    Rationalization of the tax system on the basis of the property ownership
data that have been collected in the title registration system and with
property assessments done with the knowledge of this data.
4.4   The fiscal impact. The main direct fiscal impact of the project will be a gradual
increase in property tax revenue from enhanced assessment capabilities and future
transaction fees.  Initial registration fees will be minimal to encourage property
development based on a systematic, mass registration. It is difficult to calculate the fiscal
impact since much of agriculture is already paying land taxes (to date the payment of
these land taxes paid is high; over 80% of rural land owners pay their taxes, with an
average assessment bill of about $25 per year). The main increase to property tax
revenue will be in urban areas, where as low as 20% of property owners are registered
property tax payers.
4.5   Title Registration fees. The State Cadastral Administration has a list of services
to be provided and their fees. This list has passed the first reading in the government and
will be the basis for revenue generation. The proposed fees are calculated based on
Armenia's minimum monthly wage, which is currently aLbout US $2. For registration of a
transaction and issue of information about titles, the proposed fee is about US $60. The
proposed fee is the same for registration of a mortgage and inquiry about mortgages. For
other transactions such as transfer or inheritance, the proposed registration fee is about
US $30. Registration of a lease will cost US $10. These fees will be revised as
transactions activity is monitored and evaluated. In 1996, Armenia's Inventory Bureaus
registered 13,460 sales of private homes and apartmnents and about 16,000 transactions of
other types (transfer, inheritance). Assuming transaction rates remain constant during the
five years of the property registration project, then with the proposed fees the SCA would
achieve revenues of about US $9 million over the four years. At least 20% of this
revenue, or US $1.8 million will go to the government in the form of VAT.
B. Risks
4.6   The project is complex and will inevitably be faced with various risks. The lack of
experience of the SCA in handling similar projects and lack of exposure to international
procedures could militate against full attainment of project activities. Broadly, the main
risks which the project could face are the following:
(a) resurgence of macro-economic instability that could deter the financial markel:
(farners and enterprises) from borrowing and commercial banks from lending;
(b) delay and subsequent increased costs in the registration process due to: i) need
for greater use of labor and time-intensive surveying (e.g. Thai experience and
others), ii) lack of coherent rules as to how data should be collected, iii) lack of



Chapter 4                                                                27
trained surveyors, and iv) demand for excessively precise boundaries for the
initial registration process;
(c) lack of sufficient focus and funding by the Govemment for title registration in
the newly formed cadaster system; and
(d) lack of market demand for SCA's services stemming from an excessive fee
structure; and,
(e) participating financial institution's failure to aggressively promote the
complementary line of credit (under the ARSP) because of inexperience with
investment lending and mortgage concepts.
4.7   The implementation risks associated with (b), (c) and (d) above would be
mitigated through a clear legal framework, precise definitions and procedures in the
operations manual, and a transitional provision whereby initial registration is systematic
with low fees and freely accessible information. The ARSP is addressing the issues of the
implementation risk associated with (e). Given the high Government commitment to
liberalize the economy, macro-economic instability is unlikely to be a major risk to the
project. In any case, there is a little that the project can do alone on this matter, but many
donors, including the World Bank and the International Monetary fund, are encouraging
and supporting GOA to continue its economic reforms.
C. Economic Analysis
4.8   In the rural sector, the TRP will build on the developments expected from the
ARSP as well as stabilization of water supply and improved efficiency in the irrigation
sector as targeted by the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. The TRP will focus on
property registration bottlenecks, which were identified in the Agricultural Sector Review
(1994) and subsequent ESW as the limits to rural sector growth. The TRP clearly targets
one of the key goals of the CAS (adopted for Armenia in August 1997) and NEAP, which
is improving the environment for private sector development. Since the rural sector in
Armenia currently accounts for 40-50% of GDP and serves as a safety net for a large
share of the former urban population, (which has lost its industrial employment and been
forced back into rural areas to engage in subsistence agriculture) addressing private
property development in the agricultural sector is key to general economic growth as well
as to the strengthening of social protection during the transition to a vibrant market
economy.
4.9   The TRP also builds on a strong foundation of agricultural and urban
development policy reforms which consist of one of the most widespread land reforms in
the ECA region, virtually complete liberalization of domestic and foreign trade, well
advanced privatization of small and large enterprises, demonopolization of agricultural
input supply and marketing, and demonstrated commitment to restructuring of public
sector institutions. The TRP addresses not only the supply side of land and real estate
markets by giving property owners the means to secure their rights. In addition, by



Chapter 4                                                                     28
facilitating pledging of collateral, it targets the growth of demand for land by fueling the
development of financial infrastructure. Lastly, through imnproved availability of
sustainable agricultural practices and emphasis on tradable property rights, the TRP1 aims
to make a contribution to improving environmental management.
4.10 The economic analysis of the TRP focuses on the issues of whether market agents
need and will make use of the information in the relgistration system and on the degree to
which transactions which facilitate investment will be stimulated by the availability of
registration information. In the area of rural credit, financial institutions are rarely taking
land as collateral in rural areas. Virtually all of the lending (as discussed above) is on the
basis on the pledging of moveable collateral. However, both ACBA and other
institutions express the willingness and indeed the need to accept land and other real
estate as collateral as the size of loans to fanners expands, since the amount of moveable
property which each farm family has to pledge is limited.
4.11  These agents have expressed the confused nature of documentation of property
rights: stamps in passports by local village councils and land ownership deeds are not
acceptable as documentation for acceptance of collateral since they cannot record any
history of obligations which have been entered into with the real estate. Thus, it appears
that financial institutions will demand a more transparent and periodically updated base
of property information if immovable property is to be used for collateralizing larger
anounts of finance for working capital, equipment investments, land acquisition and
other transactions that will increase the efficiency of land use and its productivity.
4.12 Outside of the rural sector, the demand for registration information will be largely
from financial institutions, but here it would facilitate the consideration of productive
investments in family businesses and transactions in the real estate market itself (home
acquisition and purchase of urban and peri-urban land parcels). Since houses, apartments,
and other dwelling are the urban population's main asset, it is also increase the security of
ownership of a large share of the country's wealth. By improving the formation of the
real estate market, title registration will also lower transactions for buyers and sellers.
(Currently the process in Yerevan amounts to buyers and sellers meeting in a particular
square carrying advertisements - verification of the their claims is oflen problematic.)
Lastly, the Government expects to use the registration system to lay the foundation for
recording property assessment information, on the basis of which real estate taxes will be
charged. Though increased tax collection is usually considered a merely a transfer, some
benefit to the economy can take place if increased tax revenue reduce the need for the
Government to borrow from the population through issuing state obligations (treasury
bills) at very high real interest rates (currently about 30% in dollar terms), thereby
lowering upward pressure on interest rates. Currently, the risk premium charged by the
market to the government on these obligations is higher than to many commercial
borrowers since lending to the latter is collateralized, while lending to the government
still raises the specter of default (as all Armenians recall the loss of their savings deposits
less than ten years ago).



Chapter 4                                                                29
Table 4.1 - Project Objectives, Outputs, and Performance Indicators
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision
CAS Objective
(i) private sector enterprise   (i) growth of rural non-farm  (i & ii) Survey of current
development;              income;                      status of Armenian
agriculture and updates based
(ii) private sector-based  (ii) growth of agricultural  on future periodic surveys;
agriculture and agribusiness   production and income based on
development;              a non-distorted pricing system;
(iii) reports from the TRP
(iii) public institutions  (iii) decisions by GOA to   PIU as well as TRP, ARSP
strengthening to establish    implement a unified titling  and SAC II supervision
enabling environment for  system based on Title        missions.
private land tenure.      Registration Law,
Project Objectives
Promotion of private sector
development by increasing:
(a) the productivity and value  (a) establishment of title  (a) PIU progress reports and
of land and other immovable  registration system with defined  IDA supervision mission
assets through secured    procedures, network of trained   reports on the number of
property rights; and,     personnel, and transparent data  IRCs established and
delivery and storage system;    property titles issued;
(b) the efficiency of rural and  (b) measurements of the rate of  (b) USAID reports on
urban property markets.   transactions in formal property  technical assistance executed
markets;                    by ICMA consultants to the
SCA.
Project Outputs
(i) generalization of the  (i) measurements of use of  (i)actual versus target
practice of pledging      immovable collateral in ACBA   performance based on ARSP
imnovable collateral for  and other commercial bank    reports on ACBA loans
working capital and       lending, and comparison to total which have used collateral
investment loans;         lending made by same         registered SCA offices;
institutions;
(ii) reduction of transaction   (ii) comparison of lending  (ii) reports from Cental
costs in title transfer and  margins for loans backed by  Bank, and future study of
mortgage lending.         movable versus immovable     development of Armenian
collateral, and tracking of this   banking system.
differential over time.



Chapter 4                                                                30
4.13 Performance Indicators. The TRP intends to promote incentive structuring based
on performance of both output and outcome. The key characteristics include: 1)
establishing clear accountability between governmernt and the SCA as well as between the
SCA and the property owners; 2) delegating authority from the Central IRC to the local
IRCs appropriately; 3) establishing incentives that reward and/or punish local IRCs on
the basis of results compared to planned activity levels; and, 5) promoting transparency
via reporting and monitoring of performance. These characteristics are the basis on
which the TRP's performnance indicators were constructed. Indicators have also been
determined in tandem with each of the project component's institutions in order to reach a
common understanding between the beneficiaries what is expected of each. The
performance indicators target the most important project outcomes but in no way
represent an exhaustive list of project impacts. As project implementation proceeds, the
set of project performance indicators will be refined, bearing in mind the realistic ability
to gather infornation on each indicator in a cost-effective manner. The set of project
outcomes and performance indicators for each is presented in Table 4.1 above
D. Sustainability
4.14  In the rural sector, the project's basic rationale is that the agricultural sector
should, over time, become self-sustaining, thereby, eliminating government subsidies
which are accorded through subsidized rates for irrigation water.  However, to
successfully bolster the rural finance component of the current ARSP, the TRP needs to
build an efficient land market. Title registration is at the heart of reducing current
constraints to development (i.e. high transaction costs such as lack of valid information,
multiple authorities, lack of legal structure). Similarly, the banking sector must develop a
disciplined, market-based financial intermediation strategy and continue to implernent
sound lending procedures (such as collateralization of loans) adapted to Armenia's legal,
social, and economic environment. There must also be initiatives to build the capabilities
of financial institutions serving small and mediutm-sized businesses to manage and
protect the bank's funds invested in these communities.
4.15  The crucial issue is whether farrners and home owners value these services
enough to pay, thus making this system self financing; titles without an information
system to sustain their validity will create an informal and highly speculative market.
Moreover, statutory law must define the fee structure and the system's administrative
procedures and methodology. Development of a modem yet expensive system of title
registration will undoubtedly delay the attainment of the TRP's objectives. It is estimated
that reaching financial sustainability will require roughly seven years in urban areas and
fifteen years in rural areas. In the medium-term therefore, the availability of local budget
will be crucial in covering the salaries of governnent workers in the agencies involved in
the TRP. This is assessed to be around US $200,000 annually. Grant financed technical
assistance to support the SCA and TRP implementation is being provided by the EU-FSP
and USAID.



Chapter 4                                                               31
E. Environmental Impact
4.16 The TRP has been classified as category "C" in the Bank's enviromnental rating
system because security of land title which the TRP supports will help to promote
sustainable land management and improved agricultural practices. Since land registration
is expected to improve the creditworthiness of farmers and the availability of credit to
them, the TRP would promote farmers' ability to borrow and invest in conservation and
other sustainable agricultural practices. Lastly, the TRP does not pose any environmental
hazards. Therefore, no separate environmental analysis has been deemed necessary.
Moreover, the TRP has been designed to support the procedures under the ARSP that
require that fanns obtaining sub-loans (through the Credit to Farmers component using
collateral) comply with an environmental checklist based on existing regulations and
environmental assessment procedures of the Ministry for Environmental Protection of
Annenia.
F. Poverty
4.17 The project is not explicitly focused on poverty alleviation. Its focus is the
development of the formal property market through mass systematic registration.
Therefore, it has strong linkages to a large number of small private farmers and small
private businesses. It would help increase the access of poor farmers to formal credit and
also improve sustainability of agricultural practices in the medium-term. For these
reasons the project will have an indirect but positive impact on poverty reduction.



Chapter 5                                                               32
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A. Conditions of Appraisal
5.1   The following condition of appraisal was met by October 15, 1997:
(a)   The GOA should issue an official resolution on the organizational
location of the government agency responsible for establishing and
operating a unified registration system for land and other real estate
outlining fee structure, personnel,
B. Conditions for Negotiations
5.2   The following conditions of negotiations were met by July 17, 1998:
(a)   The GOA will create the Project Management Board for the TRP
to include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and the State
Cadastral Administration (SCA).
(b)   The SCA will finalize a business plan acceptable to IDA for the
sustainable, unified registration system for land and other real estate.
(c)   The State Cadastral Administration will submit to the Ministry of
Finance and Economy of a request for budget for the yearly incremental
operational costs and full labor cost of the TRP's encompassing network
of Information and Registration Centers, Mapping Center, and the social
fund payments for the PIU. This budget request should be at least the
dram equivalent of US 300,000.
C. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.3 During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   the submission of a Title Registration Law by the Armenian
Parliament will be a dated covenant for the TRP (December 31, 1998); the
Law will address to IDA's satisfaction the form of the Title Report from



Chapter 5                                                             5-33
the local IRCs, the nature of state guarantees for information in the IRCs'
Title Report, the level of precision required in field surveys, and the. de-
classification of existing maps.
(b)   the production of Operational Manuals, satisfactory to ID.A, which
address the methodology and procedures for (i) field surveying, (ii)
production of cadastral maps, and (iii) production and issuance of
registration information;
(c)   all procurement activities under the project would follow the
procedures outlined in paras. 2.18 to 2.23;
(d)   disbursement arrangements would follow the procedures described
in paras. 2.25 to 2.27;
(e)   arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account
would follow the procedures described in para. 2.28;
(f)   terms and conditions for the preparation and submission of the ICR
would follow the arrangements outlined in para. 3.12;
(g)   the scope and content of the audits of project's special account
described in para. 3.8;
(h)   the final format of the Financial Management and Implementation
Report, referenced in para. 3.10;
(i)   the selection of an auditor acceptable to IDA, to conduct annual
audits of the project's Special Account and of the semi-annual financial
management and implementation progress reports, will be a dated
covenant in the Development Credit Agreement (para. 3.8);
(j)   the GOA will maintain a PIU during execution of the Project under
a suitably qualified Project Director, and with such facilities, staff and
resources and under such terms of reference as shall be satisfactory to the
Association, and a Project Management Board responsible for overall
management of the project and supervision of the activities of the PIU
(para. 3.4); and,
(k)   the PIU will prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, a Mid-Term Review Report, on or about December 31, 2000,
which integrates the results of prior monitoring and evaluation activities
reviewing the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, and
which sets out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the Project's objectives during
the period following the Mid-Term Review (para. 3.11).



Chapter 5                                                            5-34
D. Recommendation
5.5   With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of US $8.00 million equivalent for 35 years including 10 years of grace.



Armenia at a glance8/30
POVERTY end 8OCIAL                                Ceebsi LAowods        cwelpr'
Populationmid-I 90i m/oe                                 .        476 V     2
GNPPw ercapfia 1096 (uSI)                              620      2,165      60
GNP IM (biIIoneS$)24                                             ,41      I
A eraemnual growth, 001
Labor force (%)                    11        0.6       1.7    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GNP               Gross
Moat reent estimaef(tfiestyea avsllhbl asir 1080):                                  Upt                          enrollmet
Poverty: headcount Ine (   f o"l5n
Urban population                                        SOo oappuao)p       2
rInfant mortalt (per                                                                         Acme teobbhs)    wow
Child malnutrition (5 of chNS6 cdarS6)
Acces to safe7water (I% of populefio)                               -       5
lwfltercy(% of popolafon ago 1+)                         I..                3
Gross prImary enrollment (% of acl1o/-ag pcpuxAftV)      W         07      109
male                                                  87          7      112~         -LOWn.gro  iup
F emalnei                                             93         0         6      _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _
KEY ECOONOMI RATIO and LOIG-TEM TRENM~,
1076  1065    1656IM    1611116~
GOP (biionh UIS$2S                                                1.         .
Groas domesti Investmeont/GO6P                         3.        10.2       7.1
Exports Of gods and ae...lGP.                                    2.7  2.0 .iie.ms.....o
Gross detisangGO                                 .     4.01     -2.. 2.
Gross nationalsaIgGO4.                                                      6
~Cun'n account baMclanGO  Cud grnt)                               160      IS
Interest pamnsGPi                               ..       .         .         .0      alnvestmnt
Total debtGDP                                   ..        .       0.2      36.7
Total debt serviceexports                        .        .      210.4    116.6
Preset value of deiliexpol                       .       .        45         .
(avenvge annual grwth)                                                                     - m
GDP                                 *6.:   -11g         6.0       5*g      6.1
GNP per capita .e1.                                      .        4.5      :4.3 7P..
Exportsof goods andaservloes           .      4.8      1.        14.2;:    V 0.6     _______________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)
Agricuture                                      ..     20.11     44.3      41.1     a
Industry                                        ..     56.0      35.3     34.2
Manufacturing                                  .        ..      24.0     24.2IsN
Service                                         .      23.6      20.4      24.7
Private consumption                             ..     43.1     115.0    113.0      as.
General goverment consumption                   ..     16.0      13.0      12.0
imports of goods ankd services                  ..       .        1.0      56.0 
11075ll, 19364        111911   1191161   On-A.fapotNWkpf
(average annual growth)                                                             Gatadeo qet  n  mot 
AgrIculture                                    0.s     4.0        5.2       3.0     a
industry                                      IL8    4117         1.6      12.        I
Msnufacturng                                 a8     -11.4        2.5      2.5       , 
Services                                      81.4    -12.51     19.4       0.1 
Private consmptitn                            4.5    -11.5       21.0       0.2                                          s
Genera govenment consumption                  1.2      -1.2      40.6       1.5     4
Gros domuesi Investment                       28    -1360          I4     -22.      as
Imports of goods and service                   ..       .71      35.6      0.0 
Gross national product                         6.3    -13.0       4.2       5.1   I________________
Note: 106 at aure pemiayestimatas Flgau in Mfo  s  fwf  ymes ulwli Elsi tapsd111
'Th. diamondashaowefour keY idctr ntecmy(nbl)cmee  ihI  iom.upsu.e  fdt  r  iaeg ldaod
be incormpete.



Armenia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1986      1995      1996
Domc pdcUs                                                                          Inflabtn ()
(N change)                                                                         6a,=0
Consumer prices                                                  176.7     18.6    s,ot       
4.000
Impliit GDP deflator                           0.4      40       161.2     19.5 6   3:0
Govemment finmno.                                                                   /,000
(N of GDP)                                                                           .0:
Current revenue                                                   162      16.2              SI   02 n    3   04   Is   as
Current budget balance                                            -6.3      35                -     GDP dft -_-CPI
Oveal surplus/deficit                                            -13.5    -10.1
TRADE
1976     1981      1995      1996
(nzilons US$)                                                                       Export and knpoot lvels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                               271      290      5,ODO
Gold&jewelry                                                      97      109      4,500
Machinery&mechanical                                              48448    48 6    3
Textile&tseile products                                           44       44      3.000
Total impods (dl)                                .        .        73      728      20O
2.000.
Food                                           .        ..      229       247     1sco
Fuel and energy                                                 179       194      1,000
Capital goods                                                     28       25                                      ?i X-1 11r    In,
Export prce index (1987=100)                                      108      113            So  o1  n2  03  54   Ns  9s
Import price index (1987=100)                                     113      115                   3Expo          olr
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                          95        98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1985      1995      1996
(rn/ions USS)                                                                       Curnent account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of gods and services                    .         .       304      365       0       
Impots of goods and services                                      796      890          90   of      02  3   94   t5  | 
Resource balance                                                 -492      -525
410.
Net income                                                         -9       27
Net current transfers                                             284      253    H2U.H
Current account balance,
before official captal transfers                                -237     -245     4
Financing Iems (net)                                              266      255
Changes in net reserves                                           -29       -11     40
Memo:                                                                              _
Reserwves induding gdd (mill. USS)                                107      167
Conversion rate (localiUSS)                         t 6E-02     359.7    414.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985      1995      1996
(rnilions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                              423      616
IBRD                                          ,                   5       10                        A
IDA                                                              91      174                        10
ComposIidon Of to     19a (nIlL US$)
Total debt service                                                 63        68                        |
IBRO                                          ..       ..         04
IDA                                                               0        1            E
Composition of net resource flows                                                        261
Offcl grants                                            ,       199      179
Official creditors                                               72      174
Privat creditors                                       ,0                  0
Foreign dkect investment                                         19       22                   0             C
Portfolo equity                               ,        ,          O                                       1187
Wold Bank program
Commitments                                                     s8        64      A - ISRO                    E - _el
Disbursements                                                    92       92       B-IDA    D- OtwrmrlIsWd  F- Ptl
Principal repayments                                              0        0      C-IMF                       0 - SIil-Wrm
Net ftows                                                        92       92                                         ,_
Interest payments                              ,                  0         1
Net trs                                                          92       91
Devlopment Economcs                                                                                                    28U97
Note: Estimates for eoDnomies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncwrtinty.



Annex A
Description of Project Implementation Unit
1.    The PIU is being formed on the basis of the existing Project Preparation Unit and will
report to the Project Management Board (PMB), chaired by the Director of the State Cadastral
Administration. The head of the PIU would be the Project Director and principal link between
the Bank and the Government.
2.    The functions of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) are to:
(a)    provide information to, and seek guidance from the PlC on all issues concerning
progress in project implementation;
(b)   coordinate the recruitment of foreign and local consultants for implementation of
the Registration system including the Information & Registration Centers network (IRCs)
and survey contracts;
(c)    prepare semi-annual progress reports on the project to be submitted to IDA and
the Government;
(d)   ensure that the financial accounts of each of the components are audited annually
as stipulated in the Credit Agreement; and,
(e)    maintain a consolidated account of all the project's components to be available to
IDA's supervision missions.
3.    The PIU will be composed as follows:
(a)    a Project Manager;
(b)   an Information & Registration specialist and coordinator - Co-Deputy Project
Manager;
(c)    a Mapping specialist and coordinator - Co-Deputy Project Manager;
(d)   six Registration and Mapping Junior Specialists;
(e)    a Procurement and Contract Specialist;
(f)   an Office Manager;
(g)   an Accountant;
(h)   an Interpreter;
(i)    a Computer Specialist;
(j)    a Support Assistant;
(k)   25 Regional Infonnation Coordinators; and
(1)    a Driver.
4.    The projected budget for the PIU over the four years of the TRP is provided in the
accompanying Annex C - Summary Table.



Annex B
Project Description And Implementation Plan
Summary
1.    The Title Registration Project (TRP) will consist of two components:  (i) the
establishment of a network of Information and Registration Centers (IRCs) and (ii) the
development of a unified, parcel-based Cadastral Surveying and Mapping system. The two
components would be implemented, under the overall direction of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), coordinating with the State Cadastral Administration (SCA) under the Ministry of
Justice (MOJ).
2.    The SCA is a new agency. It was established in 1997, under the general direction of the
Ministry of Justice. In July 1997, staff were recruited primarily from other government agencies
experienced in geodesy and cadaster work (legal, physical, and fiscal). A majority of the new
agency is a carry over from the former Inventory Bureaus (IBs). Within the draft law on Title
Registration, the Government has set an ambitious range of responsibilities for the SCA, which it
is unlikely to be able to fulfill for some years. The responsibilities include the coordination of
cadaster surveying and mapping activities (physical cadastral activities), legal registration (legal
cadastral activities), and inventory assessment (fiscal cadastral development), as well as public
information and research. These responsibilities together are beyond the scope of this project.
The project would focus on supporting the administrative structure of the SCA via creation of a
Central Information office, a Mapping Center, assisting with the re-organization of field offices
to establish 25 fully functional marz IRC offices and marz satellite IRC offices, and financing
targeted systematic surveys as required to achieve the objectives and targets of this project. The
IRC network and parallel cadastral mapping works will serve as the nucleus to facilitate two
major parts SCA's mission, building a legal cadaster (a chronological, parcel-based property
registration system) and developing a physical cadaster (surveying and mapping).
3.    The TRP is supported by a parallel group of institutional building activities for the legal
framework development. During a follow-up to the appraisal mission (April/May 1998) in
discussions with EU and USAID representatives, it was determined that ample legal technical
assistance will be provided in advance of project implementation via USAID. Such work
includes strengthening SCA; adjudication procedures; completion of a draft Title Registration
law addressing the rights and obligations of the GOA, SCA, property owners, and those
processing encumbrances (such as tenants and creditors); and procedural manuals for registration
and surveying.
4.    The specific expenditures under the Information and Registration Center Network
component will provide financing to:
* Design, procure and install the IRC computer information network to manage the
data produced;
* Further equip and furnish a central infonnation center and 1  fully functional marz
and satellite offices;



2
*  Strengthen the resource capacity of the IRC network through international and sbort-
term local consultants, who will provide technical assistance, training and
administrative support; and,
* Support the non-labor operating costs of the I[RC network at a decreasing rate over
the TRP implementation period.
5.    The specific expenditures under the Surveying and Producing Cadastral Maps component
will provide financing to:
* Equip and furnish the Mapping Center;
*  Contract satellite imagery, enhance GPS grid coordinate system, revise available
survey data, and contract new systematic cadastral surveys for production of
cadastral maps; and,
*  Support the non-labor operating costs of the Surveying and Mapping works at a
decreasing rate over the TRP implementation period.
Extent of Project
6.    The TRP will support the development of cadastral mapping and registration process by
introducing systematic surveying in four (4) marzes and the city of Yerevan. It will concurrently
introduce (on a limited basis) systematic surveys and registration in the six (6) other manes
progressively over the four-year project period.
Marzes targeted for          Marzes selected for a limited number of
concentrated systematic     systematic property surveys and formal
surveying and formal title  title registration
registration
City of Yerevan              Gegharkounik
Aragatsotn                   Lori
Ararat                       Siunik
Armavir                      Shirak
Kotaik                       Tauosh
Vaik
Phasing
7.    The project would be coordinated by the PIU to ensure the establishment of a centrally
coordinated network of local Information & Registration Centers (IRCs). Concurrently, the
Mapping Center will ensure that the operational capacity of licensed surveyors and service
companies are synchronized throughout the 10 marzes and the city of Yerevan. A total of 21
local IRCs (14 financed by the EU-FSP) are expected to be established in Project Year 1 (PYI)
and four additional offices (which may be split into smaller satellite offices) are expected to be
established in PY2. Within four targeted marzes and the City of Yerevan, the IRC offices would
be organized to assist with data filing of the general cadastral work. Their work will be
supported by private survey contractors (supervised by the Mapping Center) as well as sporadic



3
registration, as requested and paid for on demand. Offices would be equipped progressively
according to the workload and staffing requirements.
Outputs
8.    The TRP will support the following outputs:
(a)    updating of the geodetic grid from the 1942 coordinate base, satellite imagery, and
mapping works for general use;
(b)   producing a unified cadastral system with parcel numbering and mapping of real estate
inventories (land and immovable property), defining the location and extent of each land
or property unit, its ownership and servitudes;
(c)    assisting the newly created State Cadastral Administration (SCA) with local the IRCs in
all ten regions and the city of Yerevan with the administrative expertise and resources to
introduce and implement systematic surveys progressively and take on the other
responsibilities as described in the draft Registration Law of 1998;
(d)    establishing and testing of national standards and operational manuals for the general
cadaster (geodetic control, mapping and location and extent of real estate units) that
define the content, accuracy, quality of presentation and reliability of cadastral data,
designed to meet user needs, variations in property values and budgetary constraints; and
(e)   expanding resource capacity and expertise of the private sector to extend cadastral
surveying and mapping throughout the country.
Component 1: IRC Network Establishment
8.    Objectives and targets. The major objectives of this component would be to establish a
nationwide common Information & Registration network for a secure registration of real estate
parcels and associated rights. It would undertake the systematic registration of some 590,000
titles in ten marzes and some 250,000 urban dwelling titles (most within Yerevan). However,
sporadic registration will occur across the country considering the cost and time constraints of
systematic surveying the remaining six marzes.
9.    Scope. The component would be implemented by the Ministry of Justice via the State
Cadastral Administration (SCA) and would support the establishment of a real estate registration
system with the potential of covering about 50% of the country in the first four years of a long
term program in both rural and urban areas. The project would assist with the implementation of
SCA's work as illustrated in the draft law on Title Registration (passage is a dated covenant). It
would make operational the new title registration system and database network by: (a) training
about 200 staff and managers in the new registration system procedures; (b) the designing
prototyping, and establishing a computerized title registration management information system in
25 IRCs with linkages to information systems across the cadastral network; (c) further equipping
II local IRCs by furnishing and providing them with office supplies, equipment, and archive
systems; and, (d) supporting the entry of data from an estimated 740,000 real estate titles and
other documents into the new system.



4
Major Phases of the IRC Network Component
10.   There are two major phases of this component: (A) Operational Trial Phase (Project Year
I - first six months); and (B) Full Implementation Phase (beginning with the second half of
Project Year I on through completion of the Project).
A. Operational Trial Phase - Network Establishment for the IRC Network Component
11.   During the first 12 months, it is expected that 21 offices (supported initial investmrents in
14 offices via the EU-FSP) will be established. Extensive training and registration trials will be
undertaken to refine the project design, to allow additional "learning by doing" process to take
place by project and IRC staff, with the outcome resulting in refined operational manuals and
work plans for full and successful implementation of the project. The trials would consist of:
(a)    The establishment of a 21 IRCs across all 10 marzes with a concentration within four
marzes and the city of Yerevan selected for concentrated systematic surveying. Project
financed operations will assist with public relations and data collection of acts which will
be supported by surveys (per Surveying and Producing Cadastral Map Component).
Initial period (six months) will capitalize on the experience of IRC staff and notaries to
ensure the transfer of knowledge and fundamental lessons. After the initial 50 acts per
IRC is entered in the title registration books a review will be performed to ensure proper
work. The process will start by addressing only preliminary registration tasks. After
further development of skills by staff, this could be extended to register all transactions
coming into the office in the new system. The staff involved would be those of the
existing IB office, who would be trained in the new law and procedures; and private
sector surveyors. The Mapping Center specialists would be involved in assisting with the
provision and updating of suitable base maps that may exist, and in the approval of
cadastral plans / sketch plans. Also briefing sessions would be necessary for the marz
area's private surveyors, notaries, as well as those in the parallel agencies (i.e. Tax
Inspectorate) and publicity to potential clients (i.e., transacting land holders and financial
institutions).
The initial operations would be continuously evaluated throughout the period; after 6
months a thorough review and a workshop will he held to illuminate lessons learned and
their results evaluated in detail. The final result will be a clarification of the operations
manual, recommendations for the property regulations and Title Registration Summary
Report and an experienced pool of staff ready to carry on the operation and to share
across the IRC network.
(b)    The establishment of four additional IRCs (or splitting of such resources into smaller
satellite offices) will occur during the first quarter of PY2. The second operational
development for these additional offices will provide further training starting in the third
quarter of the PYI. It would draw upon the lessons of the initial operations described in
(a) above.
B. Full Implementation
12.   The full implementation will involve limited systematic surveying and registration in six
marzes and introduction of concentrated systematic surveying in four marzes and the city of
Yerevan. After establishment of the office, including the training of staff and setting in place



5
procedures, the central IRC would commence the acceptance of data from the systematic
surveying and provisional registration experiences for formal registering. Senior staff specialists
from the network would be engaged to advise on the operations in this second phase. The task
would be coordinated with the central IRC, cadastral component of the Mapping Center, the
Project Implementation Unit, and the SCA under the MOJ. Some 830,000 rural and urban titles
are expected to be processed by the end of the project.
13.   The tasks and operations for the IRCs in full implementation would be twofold. The
first set of operations would be to support the inclusion into the title registration system of the
properties for which state acts (deeds) have been issued to date, most of which have been
delineated with fairly accurate field surveys. Working with the Mapping Center and local
notaries (where property contracts are being recorded currently), the IRCs will create initial
parcel identifications and track ownership rights and obligations until formal systematic surveys
are performed and approved. Thus, this activity, will lay the ground work for speedier official
registrations and systematic surveying work that will follow.
14.   The second set of tasks is the bulk of the project's focus. It would be the official
registration of some 580,000 parcels resulting from both limited and concentrated systematic
surveys in 416 villages (80 villages have already been partially surveyed and 336 villages will be
targeted for full systematic surveying) and 250,000 urban dwelling titles will be the result of
surveyed contracted to cover 30 km2 of high population density in Yerevan and 150 km2 in less
density populated urban centers. TRP fnanced surveys will be performed in accordance to
formal registration as required by the Title Registration law (currently a draft).  Parcel
demarcation and relevant data must be logged into the local title registration book and network
system. This effort includes six marzes based on a limited number of systematic surveys
(Gegharkounik, Lori, Shirak, Siunik, Tauosh, and Vaik) with nine local IRCs and concentrated
systematic surveying efforts in four marzes (Aragatsotn, Armavir, Ararat and Kotaik) with 11
local IRCs and 4 IRCs in Yerevan. Each IRC will coordinate with the contracted surveyors and
the Mapping Center. The contractor (engaged through the bidding process) would collect relevant
data from the local IRCs and community as well as survey the parcels for production of cadastral
maps, and entry into IRC databases. Such contracting will be coordinated closely with the
project's PIU's specialists via the Mapping Center. The IRC staff would review the title copies,
notary, and maps inspecting them for omissions and mistakes and then enter such data into the
property book system.
15.   To achieve the above tasks, project investrnents in this component would include: IRC
office equipment and furnishings including the establishment of computerized property
registration information systems; collection of relevant data, vehicles, furniture, and training. In
addition, training courses for private surveyors as discussed further in the Surveying and
Mapping Component.
Status and Staffing of the Local LRCs
16.   Currently, former Information Bureaus, now under the jurisdiction of the SCA, have
established offices in each of the marzes. The SCA plans to expand that office space and utilize
some redundant personnel. The local IRCs in the six (6) marzes, where only a limited number of
systematic surveys will occur would be undertaken during the project period, would require a
smaller staff and minimal equipment. They are to approve survey plans (coordinated with a
physical cadaster specialist) produced by private surveyors and collect existing maps and



6
cadastal plans to prepare cadastral index maps. In the four marzes and the city of Yerevan,
selected for concentrated coverage of surveying and maLpping and data entry will be fulfilled, a
larger staff and office establishment would be required. The project would not support other
activities unrelated to the project as outlined; although, it is recognized that some personnel time
will be allocated to other parallel responsibilities. The directors and lead specialists will be
appointed before the start of the project, but supporting staff should only be recruited as the
workload justifies.
Staff included in the TRP             Limited Systematic    Systematic IRegistration
Surveys and         in 4 marzes and
_tegistration in 6 mares    Yerevan
Director and assistant director (part time on Project)     1                     I1
Accounts/personnel clerks                                  1 I
Geodesist and assistant to approve and file sporadic       1                     l
survey plans Geodesist and assistant to approve
systematic contracts
Digital data manager to manage general cadastral                                 1
database                                                                         I
Digital cadastral specialist to approve digital data                             1
Operator to enter and update database
Operator to undertake searches, print maps for customers
TOTAL                            2 + I part time       4+3parttime
Sustainability of IRC Operations
17.    The sustainability of the IRCs is dependent on several factors including the efficiency of
the offices in terms of turn-around time and fee levels. If the property registers do not reflect the
reality in field, then the system will start to be ignored by the intended benefactors and the
market. The data collected must reflect what is deemed valuable in the market. Updating of the
registers would be safeguarded by setting fees at a level which would not serve as a deterrent to
register all transactions related to a given property. Moreover, such work must facilitate an
efficient customer orientated system. Since transfer taxes are another deterrent to registration of
transactions, these should be maintained at a reasonable level. These factors should fonn part of
the cost-recovery study undertaken and to be reviewed by end of PY1.
Response Times for Registration
18.    The response time to complete the survey, mapping, and subsequent registration of each
transaction should monitored in each local office by recording the date of submission of survey
plans, the date of their acceptance, the date of the registration request submission to the IRC, and
the date which formal registration is granted. Targets should be set to reduce the anticipated
delay from two weeks after an office has been operational for the first six months to less than one
week or less after full implementation (second quarter of PY2).
Component 2: Mapping Center and Cadastral Map Development
17.    Component Approach and Methods The project's mapping and registration work
focuses on the updating of existing surveys and/or contracting new systematic surveys for the



7
production of cadastral maps. Such work will be primarily undertaken by private licensed
surveyors, which would be approved and recorded by the SCA's mapping unit and local IRC in
coordination with the PIU. Currently, the local private surveying capacity includes a limited
staff, equipment, and financial resources. Therefore, the early contracts would be smaller size.
The size will increase as the capacity of the suppliers increases. In those areas where the existing
maps are known to be outdated or inadequate, it is anticipated that it would be faster and more
economical to utilize satellite imagery and update the maps by photogranmetry or to produce
digital orthophotomapping. According to the draft Title Registration law, only tose cadastral
maps that are approved by the SCA will be valid and are a pre-requisite for official title
registration. After formal registration, the State by law will guarantee such information as
defined in the registration summary report. The lead mapping specialists, in consultation with the
local IRCs, shall be responsible for selecting the areas to be updated within the budget allocation,
taking account of the overall cost of the systematic cadastral surveys and maps produced entirely
by field methods or by a combination of satellite survey and reduced fieldwork with GPS
support. Again, the Mapping Center's work, contracted surveys and methods will be in parallel
support to the IRC. Appendix D illustrates the timing and location of systematic survey contracts
supported by TRP.
Surveying Methodology
18.   In both areas where either a limited number of surveys are contracted or where a
concentrated effort is targeted, the project will finance a similar approach based on systematic
collection, surveying and registration of such properties. The process must adhere to the "Law in
the Peasant Cooperative Farms" of 1991, "Law on Real Property" of 1995 and the "Law on Title
Registration" (still in draft form), which together gave owners in the former collectivized farming
areas 'acts' (deeds) to property, which are certificates that confirm the transfer of land and
property from the State via the Ministry of Agriculture into private ownership. Today, most
agricultural lands are presently under private ownership.
19.   All surveying is systematic within the scope of this project and it will be contracted out to
private companies employing licensed surveyors. The area and villages covered include: 180
km2 selected urban areas where some recent large-scale mapping exists, and in 416 targeted rural
villages. Under the guidance of the PIU, the Mapping Center with local support of the IRC
would prepare the standard contract documents and initiate the first contracts in each marz. The
IRCs mapping support staff would take over the routine supervision of contracts and introduce
quality control procedures to approve the data delivered, using other private companies to
undertake selective checking as necessary. The contractors would identify and plot each separate
parcel of land or property under individual or joint ownership on the available maps or new
orthophotographs (GPS based), and collect the names of the owners. The results would consist of
the maps or orthophotographs showing the GPS boundaries of each property with a unique parcel
number for each and a database entry for each parcel identifying the owner, evidence of title, a
list of servitudes, and a minimal description of land use. The data would be delivered in
convenient blocks to the Mapping Center for approval. When each block has been validated
independently and accepted by the Mapping Center (or as otherwise stated by the Title
Registration law and manuals), a copy would be delivered to the local IRC for entry to the title
registration book registers and database. Only when the Mapping Center, notary and IRC has
accepted all the available records within the relevant survey area and owner(s) formally register
(with small initiation fee) would the IRCs be able to confirm the titles as final along with
conferring State guarantees for the information in the title report and registration summaries.



8
Trials
20.   The project will implement lessons learned from the USAID pilot project inAbovian.
Moreover, the systematic surveying method is currently being further tested by the SCA in two
areas: in Ararat and Yerevan, through the pre-project period giving additional field experience
essential to this project's successful implementation. In the firstArarat, the work is carried out
in a rural village which was does not have a readily available map and the other, Yerevan, an
urban cadastral mapping exercise is already well advanced. Alternative methodologies for
mapping and field surveying are being tested during the initial six months before project
implementation via trials, including satellite imagery, field updating of existing maps,
photogrammetric updating of existing maps and digital orthophotography. Moreover, title
registration summary printouts are to be tested. Such trials and training including local surveyors
will give staff insightful experience and flexibility in the operation of the new property
registration system. After this preparatory trial period, some of the mapping and IRC staff would
be transferred temporarily to assist in setting up the new IRCs, to imnplement title registration in
new areas without previous experience with the new procedures for registration.
Alternative Design Approaches
21.   The sporadic method, which is demand driven at the requests of property holders wishing
to register their interests is further possible with the establishment of IRC offices, for the IRCs
can provide such registration assistance services as required (surveying needs would be paid by
the owner). However, based on worldwide experience sporadic registration means that it will be
decades before all parcels are registered in the system. Thus, the SCA has opted for the
systematic surveying method as the base for initial registration, which allows these long peritod to
be shortened. This solution recognizes the urgency in Arnenia for an efficient real property
registration system to support the property market.
22.   Some sporadic registration will also be facilitated on demand and paid by those property
owners. Sporadic surveying cost per unit is expected to be much higher than for a systematic
cadaster; therefore, it is only likely to be attractive to commercial enterprises and to families with
disputed or uncertain titles. As this type of registration is demand-driven, the volumie of
applications cannot be quantified but is predicted to yield around 10,120 titles during the project
period, at a conservative rate of a little more than 2 registrations per week for each operatiional
IRC. The owner's expense for such work should decrease as the capacity of the IRCs and
Mapping Center coordination to approve an increasing volume of surveys increases. In sum, no
survey contracts are proposed under this approach. However, such registration is still provisional
until systematic survey of the area is complete under the draft Registration law.
23.   To adequately prepare for facilitating sporadic surveys (paid by owners) and registration
procedures, the initial step for the SCA will be to setup a Commission to license private
surveyors to undertake isolated surveys of properties to be registered and to tain IRC staff in the
approval process and archiving of data for this type of survey. Connection to the national C(PS
grid may not necessarily be mandatory at this stage provided the location of the property could be
marked on an existing topographical map pending the extension of the systematic cadastral
mapping system to the locality.
24.   A licensed surveyor would prepare an isolated survey of the land parcel or property by
defining the location and extent of the property relative to its neighbors and to pennanent features
in the neighborhood. Four copies of the survey plan would be produced and submitted to the



9
local IRC for approval within a few working days. (Initially this may be as long as three weeks;
however, there should be a performance target for each IRC to reduce this progressively.) The
IRC with assistance of mapping specialists will investigate surveys and carry out a small amount
of selective verification of each licensed surveyor's work to ensure that acceptable standards are
being achieved. Some of this selective verification would be contracted out to independent
licensed surveyors with oversight from mapping specialists to insure reliability of the system.
The approved plans would be stamped and signed by the local notary and IRC and distributed to
the owner, the licensed surveyor and one copy retained by the IRC pending formal registration
from the property owner. Rejected survey plans would be returned to the surveyor to be
corrected at his/her own expense. One copy of each approved survey plan would be passed to the
local IRC for registration without finality and would become final only when the systematic
general cadaster is completed in an area.
Private Surveying Contracts
25.   Private survey contracts accounts for a working budget of $5.634 million. Within this
budget 30 km2 of densely populated areas in Yerevan will be surveyed, 150 km2 of less
populated areas in Yerevan (48 km2) and other urban cities, 80 updates to villages done by
Giprozem and 334 new complete surveys of rural village areas. Full use of existing mapping at
scales between 1:10,000 and 1:1000 will be utilized as the base for cadastral index maps and as
survey  plans of individual land  parcels.   Photogrammetric mapping  and  digital
orthophotomapping would be produced from some previous aerial photography where existing
maps are inadequate or seriously outdated. These air survey techniques should only be used
where it can be shown that the total cost of the cadaster would be cheaper or faster using new
GPS grid-based technology, photography and mapping than by producing it entirely by field
survey methods using the existing maps. In making this cost comparison, an allowance should be
made for the anticipated revenue that would be generated from the sale of up-to-date map
products to other users. Based on experience in other countries, payment for their services will
be paid on satisfactory completion of contracted work signed off by the local IRC, Mapping
Center and PIU specialist. (A provision may be available for partial advance payment to cover
operational field expenses based on assessed need. Moreover, collateral will be required as a
deposit on survey equipment, if provided by the Mapping Center).
Private Sector Capacity
26.   The surveying contracts expect to rely heavily on the participation of local survey
companies. Publicity of such opportunity will provide an incentive toward capacity building of
surveyors to engage in training, certification and the bid process. Pre-project training is
scheduled and the growth rate of certified surveyors via parallel work under donors such as EU-
FSP and USAID should deliver acceptable quality and quantity of surveying firms. Monitoring
will be continued by the PIU specialists and Mapping Center specialists.
Appropriate Surveying Standards and Attendant Costs
27.   The standards of accuracy, content and presentation of survey data would be redefined to
satisfy the needs of land and property owners by taking account of the value of land, the unit cost
of surveys and the capacity of the national budget and individual owners to pay for the standards
of service proposed. The unit cost per parcel or property for surveys in areas of Yerevan with
substantial surveying requirements (i.e. more servitudes and other complications) is estimated to



10
be $6.68, and for urban areas with minimal surveying requirements the unit cost is $3.67. For
village agricultural land and properties requiring survey updating the unit cost is $2.80 per parcel
or $11.30 per owner and for complete surveys the unit cost is $6.27 per parcel or $25.07 per
owner. Performance would be monitored to introduce further cost savings. As the project
progresses, comparative unit costs should be re-estimated and monitored. Such monitoring
should include both project fnanced systematic surveying and owner paid sporadic surveys as
well as the registration costs associated across all types of property registrations including
apartments, urban property units, and agricultural land.
Entry of Existing State Acts into the Registration System
28.   The project envisions cooperation with the local villages, notaries and owners for the
entry of existing State acts in to the registration system. Currently, two copies of each original
acts (deeds) exist. One is held by the local notary office in each village and the other is issued to
the owner. During the transition to title registration the contents of these certificates will need to
be entered into a computer database and, after careful scrutiny, recorded in the title registers. The
data entry and surveys will be done systematically in four selected marzes, as a least-cost method
of facilitating the statutory requirement for transfer of the titles into the new property registers.
T-his process will create numerous initial disputes; the inaccuracies in ownership dimensions
currently surveyed is estimated to be approximately 10%.
Satellite Imagery and Declassification of Geodetic Control and Maps
29.   A budget of $283,000 dollars would be allocated for a nationwide satellite photo map,
declassification of geodetic control, photogrammetric map revision, scanning, digitall
orthophotography, warped digital mosaics, high resolution satellite imagery and technical training
of mapping equipment and methodology.
30.   The existing geodetic network and the new GPS and total stations would require
declassification to provide photocontrol for new mapping or digital orthophotography.
Declassification could be undertaken before initial surveys begin. In the field, each area musil
add additional GPS points to the existing grid for further intensity of existing ground features
assisted by satellite photography. The timing will be an operational decision as surveys begin.
Standard Scales of Mapping and Mapping and Digital Photographic Products
31.   The standard scales of mapping and orthophotographs to be adopted for the project are
expected to be 1:500 in urban areas, 1:2,000 rural settlements, 1:10,000 in arable rural areas and
1:50,000 in government managed forests and mountains (the latter is currently not covered by
this project). All the updated mapping and orthophotographs produced would be available for
sale to other users for special cadasters to recover some part of the costs.
32.   It is anticipated that different scales and intensity of map production using the new
satellite photography and total station-GPS system will be used to update existing maps and
produce digital orthophotographs. In urban areas, it is recommended that the project assist with
the updating and extending the existing 1:1,000 scale mapping by graphical photogrammetric
revision and digital line mapping. In rural areas an appropriate mixture of techniques would be
selected, including digital orthophotography, warped digital mosaics produced from alternate
monoscopic photographs and high-resolution satellite imagery. Digitalorthophotography would



11
be required in hilly areas. In the plains, a cheaper method of producing digital mosaics from
aerial photography, by warping alternate non-stereoscopic photographs to fit points of detail on
existing maps, may be later tested and adopted where this product is found to be satisfactory.
Satellite imagery with one-meter resolution will be the initial base for targeting of surveys and
assigning parcel numbers.
Sustainability of Mapping Operations
33.   Due to the expected 10+ year window to complete surveying and mapping of all
privatized arable lands and dwellings across the country of Armenia, it is advised that the
Mapping Center should act primarily as a facilitator. As a facilitator, the Mapping Center will be
responsible for supervision of the mapping contracts, contractors and production of fmalcadastre
maps. Although there is a 10 year window for mapping completion of currently private lands and
dwellings, further surveying and mapping will be required. This includes subdivisions,
government lands, enterprise lands, and village 'community lands' which may later be sold and
leased and added to the registration books. The sustainability of the IRC offices is dependent on
several factors including the efficiency of the offices in terms documentation turn around,
demand of its services (transaction volume), fee for transactions. Such focus requires both
current and timely delivery of information as the market will demand (buyers, sellers, creditors
and other agencies).
Incidence of Mistakes and Customer Satisfaction
34.   The incidence of mistakes would be monitored as a key indicator of the quality of
service. It would also reflect the effectiveness of training, management and staff motivation, and
the efficiency of the information systems. Customer satisfaction would be measured by
undertaking independent surveys of random samples of land and property owners and financial
institutions, who had completed first registrations or subsequent transactions to assess whether
the quality of service and speed of delivery were being achieved and to identify opportunities for
improvement.



Annex C
Project Implementation Plan by Part
Yearly and Cumulatve Coat and Investment Breakdown (USS)
PY1            PY2            PYS            PW               i
Component I                                                    (1999)         (20D0)          (20)1)        (2002)
Information & Regiatration Network                             827,243         814,727       638,507        638,507
Central Infownation & Registration Center1                 40,875          40,875         40.875         40.875
Regional IRCs2 - 7 PY1 + 4 PY2                            728,385         676,220        500,000        500,000
Service Contract3 (Equipment)                              57,983          97,632         97,632         97,632
Component 2
Surveying and Producing Cadastal Maps                        1,680,340       1,410,680      1,410,680      1,619,497
Mapping Center4 - Staff, Capital and Recuring Costs        96,100          56,100         56,100         56.100
TA Support                                                 168,000          75,ODO        75,000         75,
SatillKe Imagery                                           150,X0             -              -              -
ColitleoniCreation/Survey                                1,222,565       1,235,905      1,235,905     1,444.722
Service Contract3 (Equipment)                              43,675          43,675         43,675         43,675
Project Implementatlon Unit (PIU)                                178,130         141,130        141,130        141,130
Staff, Consulant Services, and Equipment                  176.280          139,280       139.280        139,280
Service Contract (Equipment)                                 1,850           1,85          1,850          1,850
Yearly Total                                                    2685713         2,366,537     2,190,317      2,399,11
of which Is GOA                                           484,127          554,542       610,031        695.21
Contingencies                                                    258,426         227,714        210,5B         230,851
of which is GOA                                            62,824           55358         51,236         56,1
Cumulative Total Cost                                           2,944,139       5,538,390     7,939,465     10,569,450
Net Yearly World Bank Loan Disbursement                         2,397,188       1,984,351     1,739,808      1,878,652
WB Commulative Total Disbursement                             2,397,188       4,381,540    6,121,348    8,000,000
Yeady % WB Loan Appropriated for Recurrfng Coats                          For PIU all 4 Yearm
1999      75%                                                                     100% Consutants
2000      60%                                                                     100% Non-Labor reurring costs
2001      40%
2002      20%
Y"rly Servie Contct % supported by W8 Loan (base of S% of total Fixed costs)
90%
Maintenance Service Contract Total                               103,808         143,157        143,157        143,167
Contigency rate per year       9.622%                      % Under CredIt            76%
% GOA                    24%
Local Equipment Contract WB%     95%
Local Servis Contrt WB%          90%
'Includes Stat!. Equipant (112 total due to EU investment). and full at an irmental yealy rate to be paid by GOA of recaring costs
2 Includes: St!offdice quipment innvstment (7 PYI plue 4 PY2) ad rxrkag cosb for at offices indudin 14 under EU startup investment
Svi contract a cakldaed at 5% annualy, cwenn ft tol equMent invent (both WB Credit and EU).
4 Icudes: Satf, Equixnmt (1n total due to EU investment), and f at an weien al yeaty rat to be paid by GOA of reasrn cost.
T. Wd                                                                                           Page 1                                                              8125f98 9:55 AM Invpin4. xs Summwy I



ANNEX D: TRP - Detailed Financing Table (in US$ million)
National   WB              % Total of    % of Cost
Project Totals                                    (GOA)   Credit   Total  WB Credit (Total Allocated)
Component Totals
Information/Registration Centers (IRCs)           1.602    1.317    2.919      18.1%           30.3%
Surveying and Producing Cadastal Maps             0.740    5.381    6.121      73.7%           63.5%
Project Implementation Unit                       0.003    0.599    0.602       8.2%            6.2%
Total Allocated                                      2.344    7.298    9.642    100.0%          100.0%
Contingencies                                        0.226    0.702    0.928       76%            9.6%
Total Project Cost                                   2.569    8.000   10.569       76%          100.0%
Total Cost                                        CY 1999  CY 2000 CY 2001   CY 2002
Annual                                               2.686    2.367    2.190      2.399
Cumulative Contingencies                             0.258    0.486    0.697      0.928
Cumulative Total Cost                                2.944    5.538    7.939     10.569
WB IDA Credit Disbursement
Annual                                               2.397    1.984    1.740      1.879
Cumulative                                           2.397    4.382    6.121      8.000
GOA Cumulative Total                                 0.547    1.157    1.818      2.569
Total anticipated parallel support not included above (US$ Million):
EU Equipment2                                       1.978
EU Survey Support                                   0.922
USAID (Primarily Legal Assistance)                   2.750    1.250
Does not indude Operation ovedhad such as elctrIcty to be covered by GOA.
2 SprBd over CY 1998 and 1999
T. Ward                                                                                      9/16/98 11:20 AM lnvpln4.xls Summary 2



PM    lou                     Plan byPart-
aid Cwaa Co _i  _oofo  _eM,                        _      ~       -                                                                                         I     1                                +
?       Iee        a         oa  a                          Total      %mOWMR?I             S     Oa    9      aTo%OA                                                  TW
=                                                           U       IBIlr  Lt|                                      TA   E, TA &S      H,'B    e 
_1                                                                                      _      L                                              
Iktooamn& Reofloden Notwoft  ,A!      ",y!   - uw             _T____s_R                                                                                                                                    __IT____"PMbyGO
Ce,b*,mS        & R             ne.lWlon&  Coe                 I    21,375       21,375       1      10.60      10,seo   75ii    14.025          4.075 1                -            - s5%                0       -         40,575
7-Ce                                                          21     9,000      10ow         21      110,0     23000      75%    173250         57,750      7       44.055       306,385  95%      202,006     15A419      7285
Mekunsce Senin CoitS_____________                                                           5%   1.150.65       57.083   90%      02.S184        5.708                                                            -          7.083
an wpldukCadoM MMtej'                                     
Cop     scp                                                   - 1     20100      20,100       1     27,000      27,00     75%     20,250         6.750       2      20.000        40,000  95%       38,000      2,000       06,100
TA  1U"                                                                                                                                                             100,000      188,000  05%      150,000      8.400      108,00
Saftloft o     & AWf P5otW   lyI                                                                                                                                    150,000      150,000  00%      135,000     15,000      150.000
C4&Kv_c(sw_s_"                                                      I                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1,222565  1,22,051 00%    1.100,309    122,257    1.225655
Maktonance Sorts CoituS                   _________                                         5%  $ 87 3,500      43,675    00%     39,300         4,268                                                                      43,675
PrOJect hplMebutatlon Unit (PIU)                          178,130
Con     tSOi  aid N E                                          1   122,280      122,280       1       17000    17,000   100%      17,0o                      1        37000       37,000  95%        35,150     1,60       176M2
tduktens   Service C oituS                                                                  5S        37000      1.850    900       1,665       -185                                                                         1,0 0  r
Y    To                                                  2,600,713   24    101,755      361,755     24   2,144,655    3W,008        6    316,262        79,720     13    1,641,20      1,925,950    7    1,701,024    164,026    2,66713
CUWA,    m TOW_            _ Cost                       2.C31 tl|    |             |   3561,755|                   |  398,008            318,282        790720                         1,925,950                      164,020
r-Tod Bt*LonDisbuMunet                                  2,3  ,8;
I |E.*~Npv.  CkmsbvW          l              l                                                                       __                                            |    365,385
Yp   9LGe Ap_ard bfo R       _mf Cob                      PUJ|     j          j           ji                             i                                      
1 2wol                            eo~~~~~~~~7%#    100% Rs19"Cost|s                                                                                         ll l     
|26"21                                      20#|%{                                ll|                                    --                                         
205                                       20%
IdesN   neSent CoituSd %                     Loong  y Y  aa   or 5% of toa  Odcoot
intesenTo Ia   te COibct Total                             163A5                                    5%   2.070.155    103,50      80      93.157        10,381          ______03,50__
22ifr                                                  96^2225%   70%                 24.31%
A           _CttW.S V.3                                        90%         1                                                                      _____                 ___
Local uasn CoituS   V. %                                       00%
T. Wd                                                                                                                            pup S



Prg      Im plemneutaUon Pln    Part
y~aid C~a,tg ogCa amd Investmen Breakdown
|______________________                         20        Labor    Total Lar  IF      _          Total    % NLR NLR        Paid b GOA                    Tota S   TOM     E, TA & S    y GOA   Tot
Component _1
lCaWrelln*wmallonReolnlna600 ler             11       =    21,375      21.275    1      19.500     19,500   80%    11,700       7.000      0                    -   95%            0                40.675
Coclwo xlit2                         . . .   -~~~~~~~~~~~~2!    e,ox  225,00 -5           4:5264   -7562 es e,88eOD    110,0083  4        44e05      176,220  _5      167.40     9.iI         .2
Component 2
Hv d Poded   Catl C1d41A0 _._
atl CiSer                            _                       20100      29.100    1      27,000     27.000   60%    18,200      10,80       0             O           95%                           50.100
TA SuppoIm                                                                                                                               0.25     300,0        75,000 _5%_71,250_3JS0                T5,00o
Saftlite I   AgM   AwedPatog__hy
COdwmdd-                                                                                                                                       I   1Ci . __-%S7350 -     4,7 Q @ ,11,235,9QS 1,90%   1,112,315   123,591   1"69S23O7
Maano are_ Contrad                                                                         _    _                 __ _    '                                           _
Projet Implementation Unit (PIU)                    141,130 _                         _                                    __
ComubntSolcm W..                                        1  122t I 26   122,26.0   1       17000     17,000  100%    17,000                                                                          1392so
GTotA                                        2,367   28  181.755        397,755   28   2637. us    481,857      a   338,742      142.910     5    1,57,8600   1.487,125    5   1,350,974   13S,152   2,300.537
GOA                               554~~~~~~~~S ,542  ______
227,114
O% AnmuAOf oTotat                           55.358
Cenukve Total Ced             -                    8,6318,390                 756,510  =79.005                           045t7,024    222,042                      3.413.075  =                301,077
Nat Wooid Bank Loan Dtabuaamant                   1_9_4__1
WB Cmublh TOW* DhbUtNaft                           431MG4S    
Maiteac  Seice Contract Toted                       143,187  _St   2e803,146    143,157   90i%   12,8W2                                 14.310        _                                                    143,157
A               ContrandYdM C%                               _                        _                                                                                      _
Y"laod  VAnoo Conm  dP fo 8   tCot
T. W4td                                                                                                             Pag 4
190  75%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Proctt m                      Plan  Part |____                                                                                                                                                            _
YV    aid Cmnddk  Coa mud NWInvoat 8a o                                                                                                                                                           _ _o_ _n
|h                                     onLaor _   _   NLRaNLR  wo   W            ONLR               E0*Ownt TA E, TA & S   WEW                   DIN. PAM
200W1     L         TO   abor         R            Totb   X%  NLR NLR            Pd   GOA                          Tota        %    EJ TA         y S      TO a
=n Cwr0                                       21,375  21,375 _    ___                                                                                            _0 _-
Cemponent ~ ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ______ 1                              ieso 1.50 _I _.0                            1170         0         -            -    05                              40
H       flO_    R"_Ctee                                     25 1    ,000     225,000    25       11,000               40%    110,000       165,000      -       44,055          -    65%          -             |   500.000
lm atnano Sa          - C d                                                             5%    1,9_2__ 45     97,632    60%     87,"o          9,763                                                          -        97,032
rMP_Wmd  1              ,C40 .adat1,410,U*
Coaler                                                       i    29100       29,100     1      27.000      27,000    40%      10,6W        16.200       0                           95%          -             1    5.100
TA Suppo_                                                                                                                                            0.25      300,000       75.000   5        71,250     3,750       75,000
slue"        .  Ae Phatc_p_ _                                                                            I =                                            1    1,235,905    1,235.905  90%   1,112,315   123,591  11,235,90
S         C dRW  sevo =oga                                                             5%    MAN0   -3,6-75  90%  39.300                     4.3                       II I                                          43.675
oc % _ _o      na  oalUnit 5PIU)                 141,130
COORa   ovb     WE*Vff                            I     1722,z0     122,20        I      17XWO      17.000. 10OS    17.000            ,II                                       III 139280
oi hwonmS Cryo         l Cada                                                             6s       37,000       I,es     90%      1,"            195                     l                  lz1                           ,SO
Ye"o                                                     6190,031  28    161.755     397,755    2|    2,93, 4s    1,S-               274,442       207.216      1    1,579,0SO    1,310,WS|  sl  1,183,5SS|  12.4 1          ",90.3171
_ . --wio                                                210;7U  ='._     
C_uRS         Toeb    Cot                              7,536,400                   1172136132                                        9 t31.46-5    420,657                        4,723,060                     43,416
Not Woold Bank Loan DtXbursomet                        1,739,608
W9 Com_uls  Total Ddbu ot,121,348
= Equ= lnve_sCmwe                                                                                                                                                           56se1,6
If                                      75                           _                                                                                                                                               ____II  _II  
200                                      60%
2001                                     40%
2002                                     20%
203                                       0%
Mobtapnom*s foic.coutad % %wrmbyW  Loa
1                        db          90gzll_l                                                                                                                           l                
MSOSnOw    C Sauic  Conact Total                         143157                                6%%    Z863.145     10.157    90%    126,842         14,316                      _                                           143,167
ftwlSeCoSb6tSWB%
T  Cord 500%
T. Woad                                                                                                                       PA"eS



It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
I     ft   ft 
CA   I          CI A
j  I~~~~~
A~~~1           Aj
lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                     



Armenia Title Registration Project
Annex E - Procurement and Disbursement Plans
(All Values Expressed In $,000)
Descrption                     Type       No. of contracts    Estimated      Procurement        Document           Invitaton             Contract            Contract
Ecluipmen                                                     6  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Os$t 6.  method       preparation         to bid               signing            completion-
Vehiclb                                                         G                     I            4.8           NS                  Oct-98               Nov-98                 Dec-96           Jan-99
Vehicles for PIU                                                                   14.8
Computer Equlpment                                              G                     2          485.2          ICB                  Oct-98               Dec-98     Through project liff         Jun40
Cornputer Equipment for Local Informabon Centers                                  464.9
Computer Equipment for PIU                                                         20.3
Office Fumishings and Equipmnent                                G                     2           71.8          IS                    Oct-98              Dec-98     Through project life         Apr-99
Office Fumiture for Local Information Centers                                      66.3
Office Fumishings for PIU                                                           5.5
Other Equipment                                                 G                     1           43.8          Is                   Aug-99               Sep-99                 Oct-99           Dec-99
Survey Equipment for Property Registration                             1           43.8
Technical Service                                               TS                   66        6,382.3
Field Survey and Property Data Collection                             30         5,633.6  NCB (Slice and Package)      Nov-98             Through project life                      Nov42
Satellite Imagery and Aetial Photography                                1         164.4           IS                   Jan-99               Mar-99                May-99            Nov-99
Vehide Maintenance Contracts                                            1          15.9           NS                   Feb-99               Mar-99                Apr-99            Apr42
Survey Equipment Maintenance                                            1          47.1           DC                   Sep-99               Oct-99                Nov-99            Nov42
Computer Equipment Maintenance Contracts                               3          521.3          NCB                   Mar-99               Apr-99     Through project life         May42
Tralnlna and Technkal Assistance                               CFICI                  3          430.8
Technical Assitance for Registration             CF                     1         210.5          (CBS                  Nov-98               Dec-99                Apr-99            Apr41
Technica Assistance for Mapping                  Cl                     1         118.4          QCBS                  Jan-99               Feb-99                Apr-99            Apr41
Training for Colection of Property Data          CF                     1         101.9          QCBS                  Jan-99               Feb49                 Apr-99            Apr41
Prolect implementatlon                                                               45          435.2
Consultants - Local Registry Offices             Cl                   25            -              I                   Oct-98               Nov-98       Dec-98 to Dec-99           Dec42
Consultants - Mapping Center                     Cl                    5           78.9            1                   Oct-98               Nov-98                Dec-98            Dec42
Consultants - Infortnation and Registry Center   Cl                    5           78.9            1                   Oct-98               Nov-98                Dec-98            Dec42
Consultants - PIU                                Cl                    10         277.3            1                   Aug-98               Sep-98                Oct-98            Dec42
Operating Costs                                                                                2,705.5
Operatng Costs - PIU                                                               74.5            -
Operaing Costs - IRC Netsork                                                     1,243.1
Operating Costs - Mapping Center                                                  118.4
IRC and Mapping Center Salaries                                                  1.269.5         NBF
GRAND TOTAL                                                                                    10,589.5
Note:
TYDe: G -goods; CF - consultng finns: Cl - individual consultants; TS- technical serAces
Procurment Methor: ICB - Inrmaional competitive bidding; NCB - natonal competitve bidding; IS - nternational shopping;
NS - national shopping, MWv- nInor works; IC - indIvidual consultants; OBS - consultants quality based; QCBS - quality and cost based selebton;



Armenia Title Registration Project
Annex E - Procurement and Disbursement Plans
(All Values Expressed In $,000)
Source of Financing Table tUSS 000)
World Bank Loan Funds - AJlocated                                              7,297.8
World Bank Loan Funds - Unallocated                                              702.2
TRP Actitlfe                                                                   8,000.0
GOA % of Total
Govemment ContribuUon                                                          2,569.5                           24.3%
EU Co-Financing
Other Co-Financing for TA
Total Projet                                                                  10,569.5
Disbursoment Schedule - ALL (USS,000)            CYI999         CY 2000        CY2001                CY2002           Total
Infonmation and Registration Network              827.2           814.7          638.5                 638.5        2,919.0
Surveying & Producing Cadastral Maps             1,680.3         1,410.7       1,410.7               1,619.5        6,121.2
Projectimplementabon Unit                         178.1           141.1          141.1                 141.1         801.5
Total Annual                                     2,685.7         2,366.5       2,190.3               2,399.1        9;641.7
Contingencies                                     258.4           227.7          210.8                 230.9         927.7
Grand Total                                      2,944.1         2,594.3       2,401.1               2,630.0       10,569.5
Cumulative Grand Total                           2,944.1        5,53684        7,939.5              10,569.5  ______
Averago Share
Disbumement Schedule - IDA                       CY1999         CY 2000        CY2001                CY2002           Total
Information and Registation Network               532.1           429.5          206A                  149.5        1,317A4                             45.13%
Surveying & Producing Cadastral Maps             1,477.3         1,240.2       1,240.2               1,423.8        5,381.4                             87.91%
Project lmplementaton Unit                        177.4           140.5          140.5                 140.5         598.9                              99.57%
TotalAnnual                                      2,186.8         1.810,2       1,587.1               1,713.8        7,297.8
Contingencis                                      210.4           174.2          152,7                 164.9          702.2
Grand Total                                      2,397.2        1,984.4        1,739.8               1,876.7        8,000.0
Disbumement Schedule - IDA                       FY1999          FY2000        FY2001                FY2002         FY2003
Annual                                           1,093.4         19,98.5       1,698.6               1,650.4         856.9
CumulaUve                                        1,093.4        3,091.9        4,790.5               6,440.9        7,297.8
Cumulative Contingendes                           105.2           297.5          461.0                 619.8         702.2
Grand Total- Cumulative                          1,198.6        3,389.4        5,251.4               7,060.7        8,000.0



Annex r - Arnienlia: j iue iieggsiration rruJect
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Element (Goods/Works)                  ICB                 NCB                 IS                  NS                  Otlter methods
1. Procurement method thresholds       Works: n.a          Works:n.a.          Works: n.a.        Works: <$25,000      Direct contracting for Survey
Goods:>$200,OO0    Goods: n.a.          Goods: -$200,000   Goods: <$25,000     cquipmcnt mainlcnancc
Technical           Technical Services:  Technical Services   Technical Services:  ($52,100)
Services:>$200,000   <$200,000          for Satellite      <$25,000            Technical Services: n.a.
imagery ($181,900)                     No objection on budget for
recurrent costs
2. Prior Review                        all                 first two for each   first              first two           yes
procurement
category
Element (Consultant Services)          QCBS                 QBS - none          Sole Sourcing -    Least Cost - none   Individual
none
3. Procurement method thresholds       All                  n.a                 n.a.               n.a
4. Prior Review                        yes                  n.a.                n.a.               n.a.                yes (>$50,000)
5. Ex-post Review                       Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record keeping during periodic supervision
missions. 20% of contracts will be ex-post reviewed.
~~ i9~~~~ifith                            t1e     i    '6:i      9    WPoiNuie~ad  Tecelunica! A4ssista~n iqeureuinents-z<V> ^><7f r<t 
6. Brief statement: Primary responsibility for overseeing implementation of procurement procedures will rest with the staff of the Project Implementation Unit.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status:   8 Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of
Country Procurement Strategy Note was drafted in May 1997.                               the first year ready by negotiations?    No
9. Estimated date of Project Launch   10 Estimated date of         I 1. Indicate if contracts are    12. Domestic          13. Domestic Preference
Workshop: December 1998             General Procurement Notice   subject to mandatory SPN in         Preference for        for Consultant Services:
publication: August 1998      Development Business: No           Goods/Works:         No
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  A _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   Y es/N o   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __Ye /N
14. Retroactive financing     No                                                         15. Advanced Procurement    No
16. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System:
TORs for all consultant service contracts will be submitted for no-objections by the Bank. In addition, the PIU will develop a monitoringlreporting system for timely
implementation of training.
17 Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Teatn:                     Division:              Ext.
Snezana Mitrovic, Procurement Analyst,                                                  ECSRE            x32 182
18. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
n.a.



IBRD 29596
GEORGIA                             T. AD.o        rdi    -                                                                   GEORGIA                     ,  '
0   ~~~~~~           N   %,.,N.-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UKRAINE
Toohir                       NAyon ,-O C,                                                                                                          f-      RUSSIAN                KAZAKSH_STAN
0    R  I                            t.U KHjo-kh                                                              i         IK |                        FEDERATION     "
-~~~~~               ,~~~GEOEGIA(..
Sp,lok                      ~~~~~IJEVA  .      0 Berd                                           A,ILSARIOEY
.Xit'.:'~~~~~ .3 khkodoor                                                                              AZERBAIJAN                                                                         IRAQ                 O' IRA< 
4-ARA6ATZOtNt    /A                 ''    <            sys~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARF
ASHTARAI\ GAVAS.  SEMKAN                                                                                                         REPUBLIC  OF ARMENIA
RESERVOIR tG  E G! t A R K U  N<e,, \-A  z-] RESERVOIRS
5 t; 1 $ - d  j @ RIARdN                                                                                                                                                                                       ISLARzI CAPITS
-400   +   -1\    A R A R A T   \                                o    i wi                                                               _~~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~                     ~~~~~~~~ PRIMARY ROADS  (
RS s A R T A S H A                                         - i   _ ,                                                                - W  LR O A D S
. Aoiki                                      t      OAO-A-                                                            M.                 REPGI  IMAR   A QOLOFSARAE
\=\roror ~ ~~~~ ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VA.hu                                            -  -INTERNATIONALRIJNDARIES
rkhk.d.r                                                    AZERBAIJANAZERBAIJAN  o   lm
AS RAK                                                SAN                                                                        REPU LIC                    FARMEA(NACHITCHEVAN)  \
A^.^pZ smdLwdbr   t  i                 REPUB~ILA IC                   k         )\                                  Kodoh    KAPAN        t           o        o                 0        7         0        X)>e
OUM&r Tb Mo.i                                                                           A 9It K
OFIRAN
w.,A,,rpOoAop=                                                                                                                                                                       U    ID   ID j5    4pO 1  0 3 0    50   UUR,Iorr,o,,
boI,oSAoD v roAA oo*                                                                                                     To O,dohod \  
.r M.9 s       edrr     To Zon0Ior                 S        TOWNS/VIL AG
scrtAl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.d-is l                                                                                                                          REGI C) IMAI oCA5 tTAZLS
44           '.'                     AR                                                                                                                            PIA 450                                     RAY IV
ARAHT/LO



