Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20464
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24820)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$106.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR THE BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
May 30, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1993)
Currency Unit = PAK Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.040
US$ 1 = 25
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMPE          Assessment Monitoring and Perfonnance Evaluation
BCE           Bureau of Curriculum Extention
BEF           Balochistan Education Foundation
BEMIS         Balochistan Education Management Infonnation System
BIMDTC        Balochistan Instructional Materials Development and Training Cell
BPEP          Balochistan Primary Education Project
BTB           Balochistan Textbook Board
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CSP           Comnnunity Support Process
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
DPE           Directorate of Primary Education
GCET          Government College for Elementary Teachers
GOB           Government of Balochistan
LC            Leaniing Coordinates
NFTTU         Mobile Female Teacher Training Unit
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PA            Project Agreement
PEQIP         Primary Education Quality Improvement
PTMP          Pnmary Teachers Mentoring Program
PTSMC         Parent-Teacher School Mangement Committees
QMR           Quarterly Management Reports
SAPP          Social Action Program Project
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
TA            Technical Advisors
TTS           Teachers Training and Support Cell
VEC           Village Education Committee
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimnzu
Country Manager/Director:   John W. WaDl
Sector Manager/Director:    Emnmanuel Y. Jimenez
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Juan Prawda



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                      11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     17
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                             18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  29
Annex 8. Comments from Borrower                                                        31
This document has a restricted distinbution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfoaxmce of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010417                                       Project Name: BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY
Team Leader. Juan Prawda                                  TL Unit: SASED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: May 5, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY                            L/C/TF Number: 24820
CountryIDepartment: PAKISTAN                                             Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/09/91                                Effective: 07/13/93
Appraisal:  09/01/92                                  MTR: 10/31/96
Approval:  04/13/93                                Closing: 12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of Pakistan/Balochistan Education Department
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                           Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     John W. Wall                              Paul Iseman
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                       Roberto Cuca
Team Leader at ICR:   Juan Prawda                              Mae Chu Chang
ICR Primary Author:  Juan Prawda
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S-Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, BL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Perfornanice: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Balochistan Primary Education Project (BPEP) was based on earlier ground-breaking work by USAID
and expanded later on through joint collaboration with UNICEF. BPEP was designed to improve the: (a)
access, equity and efficiency in primary education, particularly for girls; (b) quality of the learning
environment in all primary schools; and (c) organizational framework, planning and management of the
educational system. Beneficiary participation was incorporated as a means to achieve all the above
objectives. BPEP was conceived as the first phase of a long-term program to assist the Government of
Balochistan (GOB) improve their primary education system.
3.2 Revised Objective:
In February 1996, GOB and the Bnmk considered restructuring BPEP to better align it with the Social
Action Program Project (SAPP) and to address generic implementation problems further described in
section 7.2 of this report. In September 1997, the BPEP Development Credit and Project Agreements
(DCA and PA) were amended. Although original project objectives remained unchanged, the scope of a
number of activities was increased, and the unallocated portion of the Credit proceeds was reallocated,
especially to finance community-ba.sed and NGO education. The following changes were made to the
original DCA and PA: (i) expansion of the project's scope to include middle schools (grades 6-8); (ii)
inclusion of a school-based mentoring/peer training sub-component for elementary school teachers; (iii)
provision of funds for piloting innovative activities, inter-alia, new training approaches and activities to
support early childhood development; (iv) requirement of the Borrower to expand the supply of potential
female primary school teachers; (v) development of a student learning monitoring and assessment system;
(vi) inclusion of agreed performance monitoring indicators as a new schedule in the amended PA; (vii)
inclusion of five new conditionalities in Schedule 2 of the PA; (viii) a comprehensive revision of the
procurement section of the PA (Schledule 1); (ix) revision of the requirements for withdrawing project funds
on the basis of statements of expenditure; (x) modification of Schedule 1 of the DCA with respect to the
allocation of the Credit proceeds keeping the total amount of the Credit unchanged; and (xi) modification of
the submission of audit reports from nine to six months following the end of each fiscal year.
3.3 Original Components:
Appraisal estimate total cost
Component                          (US$ million)               Ratings
Total         IDA          GOB
Improving access, equity and        80.7         70.8           9.9         S
efficiency
Improving the learning environment  20.3          17.5         2.8          S
Improving organizational,
framework, planning and             18.5          17.2          1.3         U
management
Community-based and NGO              0.5          0.5           0.0        HS
education
Total                               120.0        106.0         14.0
Note: The totals in this table are ihose from the appraisal stage in 1992.
Improving access, equity and efficiency by: (a) constructing new co-educational girls' primary schools; (b)
constructing classrooms in existing shelterless schools; (c) providing furniture, a latrine block and storage
for books and materials, especially in new and rehabilitated schools; (d) carrying out maintenance works in
schools, and (e) carrying out a pilot scheme for the provision of scholarships to girls from low-income
- 2 -



families to attend private schools.
Improving the learning environment by: (a) strengthening the quality and availability of primary education
teachers through in-service training of untrained teachers with an accelerated program, pre-service training
of teachers, and in-service training of trained teachers and learning coordinators to upgrade skills in
multi-grade teaching; and (b) providing student-centered books and other instructional materials suitable
for multi-grade teaching and learning.
Improving organizationalframework, planning and management by: (a) strengthening the Directorate of
Primary Education (DPE) through improved management and administration; (b) strengthening the
education management information system (BEMIS) within the DPE; and (c) canrying out of education
research, policy, monitoring and evaluation studies.
Beneficiary participation was a cross-cutting element to help accomplish the project's objectives.
3.4 Revised Components:
The following sub-components were added in the amended DCA and PA:
Improving access, equity and effciency by also carrying out activities to encourage girls to attend middle
and secondary schools and improve the supply of potential female primary school teachers, including
inter-alia, upgrading approximately 20 girls' primary schools to middle/elementary schools and providing
about 20 annexes for girls attached to boys' secondary schools.
Improving the learning environment by also: (a) carrying out innovative in-service teacher training
activities in primary and secondary schools, including a system of school-based mentoring/peer coaching;
and (b) providing funds for piloting innovative activities to improve the delivery of primary/elementary
education and support early childhood development.
Improving organizationalframework, planning and management by also: (a) strengthening BEMIS
monitoring capabilities; and (b) developing a student learning assessment system.
Community-based and NGO education included: (a) mobilization and implementation of NGOs to support
the development of community-based education; (b) establishment and training of parent-teacher
associations and village education committees (VECs); (c) community-based school construction; and (d)
establishment of approximately 300 community/NGO schools per year as piloted from 1993-96.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Even though no fonnal Quality at Entry criteria were available at the time of project preparation and
appraisal, this report follows Bank Quality Assurance Group standards. In this section, BPEP is reviewed
with respect to its consistency with Pakistan's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). In section 7.1 of this
report, an assessment is provided of the Bank's performance during the identification, preparation and
appraisal stages with respect to: (i) technical, economic, environmental and social aspects, and lessons
learned; (ii) financial management; and (iii) Borrower's commitment, ownership, participation and
readiness for implementation.
BPEP's objectives are consistent with the CAS presented to the Board on March 31, 1994. The CAS
focuses on two closely linked development goals: poverty reduction and reducing constraints to sustained
growth. Toward achieving poverty reduction, the CAS emphasizes improving social sector performance,
and primary education in particular, by enhancing the overall efficiency of social services. The
- 3 -



Government's Social Action Program (SAP) aims to expand and improve basic services, especially for
women and girls. The education component of SAP aims to effect policy and institutional change to
increase the number of girls and female teachers in schools, and improve the quality of education overall.
The CAS identifies this as a relevant strategy to achieve poverty reduction in Balochistan.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
BPEP has been successful insofar as it has largely met and, in some cases, surpassed specific targets with
respect to: (i) increasing access to primary education, especially for girls; (ii) improving equity; (iii)
developing learning inputs, such as teacher training, textbooks and other instructional materials; (iv)
developing an effective educational management information system; and (v) establishing partnerships with
NGOs to mobilize communities for the establishment and effective functioning of primary schools.
According to BEMIS Spring 1999 census, girls' enrollment in primary schools (grades K to 5) increased
by 102 percent during the period of project implementation, from 115,000 in 1993 to almost 233,000 in
1999. The 1999 girls' enrollment reported by GOB in para. 9(a) is slightly higher, even though the source
of information is the same BEMIS Spring 99 census. The increase in boys' enrollment over the same
period was only 6 percent, from 384,000 in 1993 to about 407,000 in 1999. The ratio of girls enrollment
to total enrollment increased from 23 to 36 percent during the project period. The aggregate primary level
drop out rate for girls decreased frorm 17.3 to 13 percent while that of boys decreased less dramatically
from 14 to 12.8 percent. At the stait of the project in 1993 there was only one girl for every 3.4 boys in
provincial government primary schools. By 1999 this ratio had changed to one girl for every 1.8 boys.
This is evidence of the effectiveness of the project's efforts to increase girls' access to schools and improve
gender equity.
With limited systematic classroom cibservation studies, there is little evidence of how pedagogical
interventions have impacted the quality of student learning through the transformation of traditional
teacher-centered, rote learning methodologies into more active, child-centered teaching and leaniing
practices. However, some research was undertaken to examine the use of textbooks and teacher guides, the
findings of which were partially used to inform the development of new textbooks.
Thanks to BPEP, there are girls at school who previously would not have had access to prinary education.
There are parents across the province whose aspirations and hopes for their children are at last being
fulfilled and that are willing to continue paying for their daughters education, especially in the urban areas.
The landscape has been altered drastically at the school and community levels, and much of the change
would appear to be irreversible. What appears to have undergone less positive change is the political and
systemic environment in which the project functioned during a little over six years. This disabling
implementation environment, especially after 1996, appears to have yielded the current lack of
understanding and commitment on the part of the provincial government to the stated educational aims of
BPEP, as well as of the larger social and economic policy objectives of SAP. It has also weakened the
capacity of the DPE to further build upon the project's substantial achievements in increasing equity of and
access to primary education in Balochistan. Finally, it forced the Bank to first suspend, then later cancel
the Credit. The general impression documented in supervision reports since late 1998 is that the
programmatic thrusts of BPEP have become unsustainable in the current environment, and that significant
gains made by BPEP risk being lost.
-4 -



4.2 Outputs by components:
Improving access, equity and efficiency
Civil works. With the exception of 1993-94 (when no Special Account had been established for the
project) and of 1996-97 (when the Bank froze US$30 million equivalent for civil works until the issue of
hiring 400 unqualified teachers was reversed by GOB), the construction program proceeded at a
satisfactory pace as per approved annual targets. A total of 4,199 schools and 1,475 classrooms were
completed in the 1993-99 period and 60 schools and 15 classrooms were still in progress at the time of
cancellation. Instead of a planned 70/30 construction ratio in favor of girls' schools by project completion,
the project ended with a ratio of 60/40 in favor of boys' schools. Supervision missions consistently noted:
(i) ineffective coordination between the Department of Civil Works (DCW) and the Architectural &
Engineering Firm for tendering and awarding civil works contracts, verifying and paying contractors and
supervising construction progress, thus causing significant delays in construction; and (ii) site selection and
supervision disagreements with the Bank. Several supervision missions highlighted the need to improve the
quality of school construction.
Repair and rehabilitation of schools and school furniture. The repair and rehabilitation of schools
progressed in a piecemeal manner and not according to an integrated approach. There was little effort to
develop better designs for school furniture during project implementation despite suggestions to this effect
from several supervision missions. Furniture acquired under the Credit were rigid, attached chairs and
desks which are cumbersome, non-child-friendly and do not lend themselves to the flexible use required for
multi-grade instruction.
Teacher staffing and deployment. An important accomplishment of BPEP has been a major increase in
the number of female teachers in rural areas throughout the province, including 1,500 in CSP schools.
Despite having agreed with GOB on transparent merit-based criteria for the recruitment of teachers
financed under the Credit, in 1996, and then again in 1999, Bank supervision missions discovered the
hiring of unqualified and untrained teachers when qualified and trained candidates were available, as
further explained in para. 7.5. A major issue that still has not been adequately addressed by GOB in
government schools is the rampant absenteeism of teachers. This detrimental performance pattern has been
far less evident in Community Support Process (CSP) schools and in communities where parent-teacher
school management committees require greater accountability from teachers with the local community
actively involved in school issues.
Improving the learning environment
Teacher training. The following teacher training modalities were developed and implemented through
BPEP: (i) in-service training through an accelerated program for 2,500 untrained teachers at the start of the
project; (ii) pre-service training through the Government College for Elementary Teachers (GCETs) and
through a Mobile Female Teacher Training Unit (MFTTU) specifically designed for CSP schools; and (iii)
in-service training for trained teachers in multi-grade teaching, hygiene and sanitation and to improve the
skills of learning coordinators. In sharp contrast to the traditional training delivered by the GCETs, DPE's
Teachers Training and Support Cell (TTS) successfully developed and delivered innovative need-based
teacher training programs. About 8,600 untrained teachers, 1,500 of which were female from the CSP,
were trained and certified through BPEP, effectively clearing a backlog of untrained teachers in
Balochistan. The MFTTU trained about 3,300 girls in remote rural areas, transforming them into a pool of
teachers eligible for girls' government and CSP schools. The Primary Teachers Mentoring Program
- 5 -



(PTMP), a decentralized model of cluster, school-based, peer-coaching training, benefited about 10,000
teachers in monthly two-day workshops. UNICEF-funded health and hygiene and early childhood
development workshops were conducted through PTMP.
Learning materials. The Balochistan Instructional Materials Development and Training Cell (BIMDTC)
of DPE developed and produced 3 5 new textbooks and teachers' guides across subjects for Kachi to Class
V of significantly better pedagogical quality than those pre-dating BPEP. These textbooks are
age-appropriate, student-centered, activity-oriented, multi-grade and incorporate sound pedagogical
techniques. Despite these accomplishments, there was an uneven and delayed distribution of textbooks to
schools. The physical quality of the textbooks was questionable as evidenced by field visits carried out
during several supervision missions. Within 3 to 4 months of arrival in schools, most textbooks were
missing front covers and generally fialling apart..
Funds for piloting innovative activities. Innovative pilot activities included: (i) the girls' urban and rural
fellowship programs; (ii) numerous activities linked to the CSP component; (iii) the provision of teacher
training schemes (MFTTU and PMTP); and (iv) the Child Development Initiative aimed to enhance
cognitive development and school performance of children in Kachi class and increase parental involvement
in early learning at home.
Improving organizationalframework, planning and management
Strengthening the Directorate of Primary Education (DPE). Assistance for building institutional
capacity was provided to DPE to manage BPEP as well as primary education across the province. Gender
equity at the DPE was addressed by having about 22 percent of sanctioned posts filled by female managers
- an important accomplishment given that at the start of the project there were only 2 percent in the whole
Education Department. As part of the professional development of staff, virtually all senior officers,
including field officers, received training in educational management, educational innovation and quality
improvement. The structural, organizational and functional arrangements emerging from the bifurcation of
the Department of Education into a Directorate of Elementary Education and a Directorate of Secondary
and Higher Education to ensure joint management of Classes K to 8 under a Directorate of Elementary
Education have yet to be completed.
Balochistan Education Management Information System (BEMIS), established by USAID prior to
BPEP, was one of the brightest achievements of BPEP. BEMIS produced nine consecutive annual school
censuses for the period 1990-99, established 32 District Computer Cells with trained male and female
operators as well as a local area network at DPE headquarters. BEMIS developed a geographical
information system which serves as a model for the entire country. BEMIS is staffed by experienced and
highly motivated staff, most of whorn have been in the cell since the beginning of BPEP. Of 18 sanctioned
positions, four, which cover the most critical technical functions, were vacant at the time of the ICR
mission. The data collected, analyzed and published by BEMIS have been regularly used for the planning
of textbook production and distribution, teacher recruitment and deployment and site selection for the
construction of schools. In addition, BEMIS prepares periodic reports on school infrastructure, teacher
bio-data, and student enrollment, promotion and retention patterns. Despite these important achievements,
in 1998, when BEMIS funding shifted from BPEP to the non-salary recurrent budget of GOB and funds
were not released on time, the 1998 census data was improperly collected, processed and analyzed, raising
serious concerns about its reliability. In addition, available BEMIS historic data require further and more
exhaustive analysis, in particular with respect to understanding the high rates of dropout during the first
two grades of primary school (K to class 2). Combined with findings from classroom observation and
impact evaluation studies, specific targeted pedagogical interventions could be implemented to improve
- 6 -



efficiency in the primary education system. If figures on the current school-aged population are made
available, BEMIS could calculate estimated net and gross enrollment rates allowing for more targeted
strategies to increase access for children, particularly girls, who are still out of school.
Assessment Monitoring and Performance Evaluation (AMPE). The AMPE Cell in DPE was
established to assess student learning achievement, analyze and interpret BEMIS data and undertake
applied research for policy formulation. Unlike other technical cells within DPE, the AMPE Cell was
established mid-way in the project's life. From 1996-98, capacity was built in AMPE to carry out the first
assessment for Classes III and V in Mathematics, Urdu and Life Skills in a random sample of primary
schools. The November 1998 supervision mission raised some concems about AMPE's design and
sampling procedures as well as of the reliability and validity of the information collected. The ICR mission
believes this may have meant that findings of the assessment did not influence sector policy and were not
used in the development of learning inputs. Other achievements of the AMPE Cell include: (i) field
monitoring of CSP schools; (ii) monitoring of parent-teacher school management committees in 10
districts; (iii) end-user monitoring of textbook availability; and (iv) development of student progress report
formats for parents.
Education research, policy, monitoring and evaluation studies. In addition to research and monitoring
activities carried out by BEMIS and AMPE, DPE commissioned a number of surveys to assess learning
materials developed under BPEP. In the final months of project implementation, an evaluation of three
BPEP innovations (community participation, classroom observation and the primary teacher mentoring
training program) was carried out and its findings recently released but not yet discussed.
Community-based and NGO education
Girls' private school fellowships (urban and rural fellowships). The girls' urban and rural fellowship
programs were designed to support the development of low-tuition private schools for increasing access of
disadvantaged girls to quality education. Scholarships, provided directly to the schools and communities,
were designed to cover tuition fees, books and educational materials. Implementation was undertaken
initially by an NGO and later by the Balochistan Education Foundation (BEF).
A total of 6,654 scholarships in 40 urban private schools were provided by BPEP, surpassing targets more
than 18 months prior to the project's scheduled date of completion. This scheme was largely successful
because it: (i) provided education for girls in areas where no girls' schools existed; (ii) promoted the
establishment of private schools catering to low-income families while, at the same time, reduced the
burden on govemment to provide schooling; (iii) placed minimal financial burden on parents who were
required to pay nominal, annually increasing tuition fees; (iv) increased public demand for both primary
and middle schooling for girls; and (v) represented successful collaboration between communities, private
school operators, NGOs and GOB. The urban fellowship scheme is likely to be sustained as parents
appear willing and able to pay tuition fees after the subsidy has ended, and enrollment of girls in fellowship
schools continues to increase.
The rural fellowship sub-component was devised in response to the demand for schools by rural
communities which did not qualify for a CSP school due to a low number of children or lack of an
available female teacher. NGOs worked with communities to deternine whether they were willing to
support a school, and support a local girl to complete grade 8 to become a teacher. A decision was taken
midway through the project that rural fellowship schools would eventually become government CSP
schools with a female teacher as their sustainability as fellowship schools was unlikely. By the end of the
project, out of 30 rural fellowship schools, 21 converted to the CSP model, one became a private school
- 7 -



maintained by the community and 8 failed as initial assessments may not have accurately reflected the
community's real capacity to suppoit a school. The rural fellowship scheme functioned well insofar as it
provided schools in remote rural communities which otherwise would not have had a school established.
Community support program (CSP) was devised to establish girls' schools with the full participation of
communities as a means to increase access for girls to schools and to recognize fonnally the crucial role of
communities in primary education. The DPE contracted an NGO to implement a 17-step process (later
reduced to 14 steps), which began with the identification of suitable communities and ended in the
establishment and effective functioning of girls' primary schools. Separate male and female village
education committees were established to build full community ownership. Their responsibilities included
the provision of physical space for the school, maintenance of the school facility, recruitment of a local
female teacher, ensuring girls' enrollment, monitoring student and teacher attendance, and supporting
school development and teacher training activities. The CSP scheme has demonstrated considerable
success and potential. The estimated number of CSP schools at the time of project cancellation was 1,300
with a total enrollment of about 60,000 girls and 1,500 teachers. Due to the considerable gains in girls'
enrollment, GOB adopted a policy that all new schools must be established using the CSP approach, but
without the involvement of NGOs. The direct and on-going involvement of communities in the life of
schools yielded higher rates of teacher and student attendance, lower rates of student dropout and
repetition, and greater demand for girls' education overall. Unique contributions of CSP were the
establishment of an umbrella NGO, which subsequently created and nurtured locally and regionally-based
NGOs and the development of partnerships between NGOs, GOB and communities. NCGOs are credited
with effectively guiding the entire CSP process, and their contribution constitutes a significant achievement
of BPEP.
Problems associated with the CSP model and identified in research conducted toward the end of the project
included the fragile nature of the triangular partnership between the government, NGOs and communities
when communities are not regarded as full partners in the process. The CSP model is vulnerable to
political interference in teacher selection, as evidenced in the hiring of 400 unqualified teachers for CSP
schools in 1996. In addition, few village education committees (VECs) were reported to believe they have
the capacity to motivate and mobilize communities without continuing government and NGO support.
There appears to have been a lack of coordination between NGOs and government, and agreed procedures
were not always followed. Also, the large number of teachers recruited and trained in a relatively short
period of time made it difficult for NGOs to provide adequate follow-up and on-going support.
Parent-Teacher School Managemient Committees (PTSMC) The success of the CSP model and, in
particular, the role of VECs, led the government to decide in 1996 that all primary schools should have
PTSMCs. Of the approximately 10,000 PTSMCs constituted, 2,083 were trained and validated by NGOs,
and a total of 4,676 opened bank accounts and received non-salary operating funds. Effectively
functioning PTSMCs are those which were formed according to the same step-wise procedures, albeit
condensed, used for VECs under the CSP model. PTSMCs which met with less success were those which
were formed abruptly in response tc the central-level directive in the absence of substantive preparation and
genuine participation by communities. The potential of PTSMCs is unlikely to be realized unless the
lessons of community participation from the CSP experience are fully incorporated into the PTSMC
strategy and adequate operational fimds are available to support their activities.
Primary Education Quality Improvement Program (PEQIP) was implemented as a parallel, but
complementary, intervention to BPEP financed by the Government of the Netherlands. It aimed, through
NGOs, to enhance quality in primary schools by strengthening partnerships between communities and GOB
and to improve teaching and learnirg practices with the training of 1,150 female CSP and 650 non-CSP
- 8 -



teachers. PEQIP also supported the development of instructional materials used in CSP schools.
Balochistan Education Foundation (BEF) was formed in 1994 with the sole objective of promoting
private sector education in the province. At the time of project cancellation, BEF had been supporting the
administration of urban fellowships for 6,664 girls in 40 schools, 19 in Quetta and 21 in other urban
centers in Balochistan. The BEF administered the transfer of funds from BPEP to school operators over an
initial three-year period. After three years of successful operation, a fellowship school received an
additional two years funding paid in annual lump sums. Schools were expected to save a portion of the
subsidy received during the initial three-year period to be used later on as working capital and to generate
interest from savings after subsidies were reduced. The BEF claims it has the financial capacity to support
urban fellowship schools, but requires special dispensation from government to do so. Without continued
funding, fellowship schools will be forced to raise tuition fees which could force some children to drop out,
and reduce teachers salaries in order for schools to lower costs.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
BPEP built sufficient state institutional capacity, mainly through the support of technical advisors (TAs)
financed under the Credit, to implement and manage project interventions aimed at increasing access and
improving quality. During the life of the project, the DPE was able to manage the: (i) construction of new
schools; (ii) development and provision of need-based teacher training activities; (iii) development,
production and distribution of child-centered learning materials; (iv) establishment of a fully operational
education monitoring system; and (v) partnerships with NGOs to mobilize communities for establishing
functional primary schools. It seems that the training and advisory roles that TAs were to play during
project implementation was not fully understood and/or stressed by GOB. It would appear that TAs
adopted a project implementation driving role with the concurrence of GOB which did not allocate, with a
few exceptions, qualified provincial technical counterparts to interact with TAs. Furthermore, the political
environment in which the project functioned, especially since 1996, characterized by frequent changes in
both the federal and provincial governments, undermined the progress of specific project interventions (as
further explained in paras.5.2 and 5.3). BPEP intended to maintain within the DPE at project completion,
capacities built through teacher training and textbook development. To that end, significant capacity
building was carried out in the DPE through technical and professional staff seconded from the Balochistan
Textbook Board (BTB), the Bureau of Curriculum and Extension (BCE) and staff on fixed-term contracts.
When seconded staff returned to their original institutions and/or the contracts of experienced staff
terminated, capacity developed in DPE was weakened or lost after considerable investment in their training.
In addition, and against the project's expectations, GOB informed the ICR mission of its intention to
transfer responsibility for developing and delivering primary level teacher training activities from the
Teacher Training and Support Cell (TTS) of DPE to the BCE, and for the development of new textbooks
and teacher guides from the Balochistan Instructional Material Development Cell (BIMDTC) of DPE to
the BTB. This is evidenced by the fact that operational funds for TTS and BIMDTC were not approved in
the FY2000 provincial budget. BCE and BTB are not adequately equipped to carry out these
responsibilities effectively with new pedagogy developed by BPEP, nor has GOB drafted a capacities
transfer strategy to ensure the continuation of the quality of training programs and development of learning
materials. Subsequently, there appears to be considerable risk of reverting to the use of pre-1993 teaching
and learning practices and materials.
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Imlplementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None of importance to the awareness of the ICR mission.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Early stability in GOB and DPE led BPEP staffing to remain relatively apolitical until the departure of the
first Director of DPE in 1996. The suspension and subsequent cancellation of the Credit was the result of
a deteriorating implementation environment in the education sector and across all political and bureaucratic
spheres in Balochistan since Autumn 1996. Significant gains of the project, in particular with respect to
improved access, the development of leaming inputs and fostering conmmunity participation, proved to be
fragile in the absence of wider political commitment to their sustainability. Since Autumn 1996, when the
then-Minister of Education, GOB, hired 400 unqualified teachers, Bank supervision missions consistently
raised their concerns about violations of numerous covenants of the DCA and PA, including: (i) delays in
staffing; (ii) releases in counterpart funding; (iii) inadequacy of the non-salary budgets; (iv) non-transfer of
incremental teacher and administrative positions created during the project from provincial development to
recurrent budgets; (v) teacher recruitment and deployment using non-merit-based criteria; (vi) issues
concerning the extraction of extra fees by DCW in issuing construction contracts; (vii) inappropriate
procurement practices and end use of goods and services acquired under the Credit, particularly vehicles;
and (viii) the untimely delivery of audit reports and lack of follow-up on observations made by auditors. In
addition, there were other issues concerning the Special Account which contravened Bank agreements, lack
of commitment to quality and delays in developing mechanisms to transfer school improvement grants to
communities. Furthermore, the overall enabling environment for project implementation was threatened by
the frequent transfer of key and experienced staff and a lack of coordination between government
departments in contradiction of agreements reached under both SAPP and BPEP.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The capacity building of the DPE was adversely affected, especially during the first two years of project
implementation, by delays in filling key sanctioned management posts with qualified personnel and the
allocation of counterpart funds. Even at the time of project closure, the DPE was not fully staffed. For
example, a dedicated and trained staff for procurement was never assigned in the DPE. During the life of
BPEP, the DPE experienced a change of six directors, four of which took place from 1996 to 1999. The
transfer of DPE directors was in direct contravention of agreements reached between IDA (BPEP and
SAPP) missions and the Governments of Pakistan (GOP) and Balochistan aimed to ensure the continuity of
experienced senior project managers. Along with the transfer of DPE directors, numerous transfers of key
qualified management staff in the DPE also took place. Rapid turnover of experienced personnel seriously
affected the capacity of the DPE to make and sustain BPEP quality-related gains. Capacity building and
investment in training was further lost when experienced seconded staff returned to their original
institutions and/or the contracts of fixed-term staff ended. As mentioned in para 4.5, despite agreements
with the Bank, GOB seldom put qualified counterparts in place to work with the TAs provided under
BPEP. The expected role of the TAs to provide guidance, technical assistance and training to DPE was
gradually transformed into one of driving the implementation of BPEP. Project implementation was also
delayed by objections from the Bank to the selection of sites for school construction which did not meet
agreed criteria. The structural, organizational and functional arrangements to ensure joint management of
classes K to 8 under a Directorate of E]lementary Education have yet to be completed.
- 10-



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total project cost was estimated to be US$120 million equivalent, out of which US$106 million
equivalent (SDR 76.4 rnillion) was to be IDA-funded (88 percent) and the balance, US$14 million
equivalent, GOB-funded (12 percent). At the time of the ICR mission, BPEP had disbursed US$86.7
million equivalent, amounting to 72.3 percent of the total project cost. IDA disbursements amounted to
SDR 55.9 million (US$78.8 million equivalent), 73.2 percent of the total Credit, while GOB counterpart
funding amounted to US$7.95 million equivalent (57 percent of the total agreed counterpart funds). In
April 1999, SDR 6.45 million (US$8.5 million equivalent) for civil works was canceled by the Bank.
Disbursements were slow during the first and last two years of project implementation. In the first two
years delays were due to the opening of the Special Account and a lack of institutional capacity to
implement activities agreed to for the first year. Delays at the end of the project are attributed to GOB's
lack of sound governance resulting in the suspension and cancellation of the Credit. Depreciation of the
Pakistani Rupee against the US Dollar by alnost 100 percent over the life of the project (from Rs.25 to
Rs.50 to the Dollar) partially explains non-utilized proceeds from the Credit.
As of the time of the writing of this report, the following amounts by category of expenditure were not
utilized against the total amended Credit of SDR 76.4 million equivalent: (i) SDR 7.8 million for civil
works and maintenance (19.6 percent of the total approved for these expenditure categories); (ii) SDR 3.1
million for equipment, furniture, textbooks, textbook paper and instructional and training materials (25
percent); (iii) SDR 0.29 million for vehicles (26.4 percent); (iv) SDR 3.9 million for technical assistance,
fellowships and teacher training (22.8 percent); (v) SDR 2.9 million for incremental staff salaries and
operational costs (84.4 percent); and (vi) SDR 2.5 million for grants for NGOs, awards, scholarships and
pilot innovative activities (100 percent). With respect to the zero disbursement figure shown for NGOs,
awards, scholarships and pilot innovative activities (Category 7 of Schedule I of the amended DCA), the
ICR mission was informed that these activities were financed under Category 4 (consultant's services),
another irregularity emerging from the lack of appropriate financial management systems (as further
described in para. 7.2). In addition, the above information suggests a tendency on the part of GOB to
spend proportionately more on goods (especially school furniture) and civil works than on inputs aimed at
improving the quality of education.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Based on the following assessment of GOB's commitment to sustain proven BPEP gains, and as evidenced
by low allocations to current non-salary recurrent and developmental budgets and structural arrangements
to ensure a smooth transition to a non-project mode of operation in mainstream institutions, it is unlikely
that most of BPEP's gains will be sustainable in the short to medium-term. In the view of the ICR mission,
schools established under BPEP, CSP schools and the urban fellowship private girls' schools are likely to
be sustained in the near future.
GOB governance. Notable successes were achieved by BPEP in the early and middle years of the
project's life. These achievements were, however, adversely affected during the final two years of the
project due mainly to a lack of good governance on the part of GOB, as consistently flagged by supervision
missions. The adverse implementation environment starting in 1996 (see para. 5.2) until project suspension
and cancellation in 1999, casts serious doubts on GOB's commitment to and understanding of the strategic
role that an efficient and effective prirnary education sector plays in development. Despite consistent
- 11 -



flagging of supervision missions, Bank management overlooked procurement issues in the 1993-95 period,
followed-up only on civil works procurement in the 1995-97 period, and actively pursued other
procurement issues such as vehicle misuse and excessive spending on furniture by GOB only in the last two
years of BPEP. An in-depth procurement audit was conducted in the final months of project
implementation (September and October 1999) and its findings are in the process of being discussed with
GOP and GOB.
Non-salary and developmental resources. Budget projections were prepared at appraisal to determine
Balochistan's capacity to sustain the recurrent costs of the program. The projections assumed an 8% p.a.
real growth in total revenues and a 7.2% p.a. real growth in spending on primary education. These
assumptions appeared reasonable at appraisal, as they represented a sharp slowdown from the real growth
rates during the previous 8 years of over 11% p.a. in total public expenditures and 17% p.a. for spending
on primary education. In retrospect, however, these projections were optimistic, as Balochistan's total
revenues grew by only 1.5% p.a. in real tenns between FY93 and FY00. The increase in Balochistan's
revenues over the project period was thus only about half of what had been projected, and it was not
possible to sustain the projected real growth in spending on primary education.
Partly as a result, both BPEP and SAPP supervision missions repeatedly noted low levels of counterpart
funding and allocations for non-salary recurrent spending. During the project period, the fnancing
available under BPEP enabled Baloc:histan to finance a much larger primary education program than it
otherwise could have. As noted in section 7.1 below, however, the project funded a greater share of
recurrent costs than originally expected, making the transition from project financing to the regular
recurrent budget more difficult. The growth in GOB's spending on prinary education from its own
revenues was much lower than originally projected, reflecting the slow growth in those revenues.
As noted by recent SAPP and BPEP missions, GOB's non-salary recurrent and ADP budgets for FY2000
do not provide adequate funding for the continuation of most of the quality-related activities previously
funded under BPEP. Provisional budLget estimates for FY01 appear somewhat more encouraging, with
some funding provision for former BPEP activities in both the recurrent and development budgets.
Nevertheless, the sustainability of these activities remains at risk given the low level of funding for these
activities and the uncertain institutional arrangements made for them (see Section 4.5 above).
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Exit strategy. As explained in para. 4.5, parallel structures operated during the life of BPEP, in particular
for teacher training and the development of learning materials. GOB has indicated its intention to transfer
teacher training, textbook and materiads development from the DPE Cells to the BCE and the BTB, and the
facilitative role of NGOs in the CSP process to district and sub-district education officers (DEOs and
SDEOs) and learning coordinators (LCs) against BPEP's intended design. However, non-salary and
developmental allocations for these activities have not been included in the GOB FY2000 budget. Nor has
GOB provided an exit strategy and action plan for the effective transfer of expertise acquired under BPEP
to mainstream institutions to ensure quality in the services being devolved. The transfer of expertise gained
during BPEP needs solid govermment commitment to create the necessary enabling enviromnent for
adopting, integrating and practicing the technical capacities built over the period of six years in the DPE.
The ICR mission concluded that the capacity building that took place during the implementation of BPEP
to enable mainstream recipient institutions to effectively support the project's gains was not retained.
Parallel, project-created structures are not usually sustainable in the long-run after projects end. In the
case of BPEP, strategies to either phase out the original mainstream institutions to solidify those created by
the program, or for the orderly transfer of capacities built by the program back to mainstream institutions
were particularly weak.
- 12 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
USAID groundwork to address the difficult political and resource constraints in Balochistan facilitated the
Bank's assistance in taking to scale the earlier pilot project funded by USAID. The Bank team assisting in
project preparation displayed sound knowledge of the sector issues addressed by BPEP, including: (i) lack
of access and equity in education, particularly for girls; (ii) high repetition and dropout rates; (iii)
insufficient supply of female teachers; (iv) low learnig achievement; (v) ineffective management; (vi) lack
of community involvement; and (vii) lack of appropriate sector policies aimed at increasing access,
participation, efficiency and quality of primary education overall.
The following lessons learned were cited as having been incorporated in the project's design: (i) the project's
scope was limited to one province which was legislatively and financially responsible for primary
education; (ii) the project was implemented within the Balochistan Department of Education through the
creation of a Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) to avoid the establishment of a temporary parallel
management structure; and (iii) appropriate school site selection criteria were established to better plan and
implement school construction. It was the first IDA-financed project in the education sector in Pakistan to
have properly designed targeting mechanisms rather than targeting priorities. Project design also accounted
for potential environmental impact and included the beneficiary assessment carried out under USAID. The
Bank preparation team carried out an extensive assessment of the Borrower's readiness for implementation
and identified the country's and province's project implementation risks. A first year activity plan was
agreed upon, but not adequately implemented by the Borrower.
An ex-post review of project preparation and appraisal indicates some gaps on the part of the Bank. The
SAR does not include an economic analysis. Advanced procurement actions required during project
preparation, including an assessment of procurement capacity issues, were not specified in the SAR. As
per standard practices at the time of approval of this Credit, the procurement procedures as set out in
Schedule 1 to the PA did not require a procurement plan, nor did they require for various procurement
procedures to be listed under explicit separate headings as they are today. While the project's financing plan
was generally realistic and included the identification of yearly counterpart funds, the project's design did
not provide for the establishment of adequate financial management systems and training of personnel to
ensure effective internal financial controls, accounting and reporting. Allocation of the Credit's proceeds
for recurrent expenditures in Schedule 1 of the DCA was set at 100 percent reimbursement throughout the
life of the project. The ICR mnission was informed by the Bank appraisal team that this decision was taken
to ease a mechanical accounting problem with GOB which was unable to simultaneously sign two checks
(one from IDA and the other from GOB) to pay each teacher every month. The ICR mission was further
informed by the Bank team that participated in the amendment of the Credit in 1997, that the 100 percent
reimbursement of recurrent expenditures was left intact because instead of paying a declining share of
salaries, the Credit was to pay 100 percent of the salaries for a declining number of staff on the assumption
that a progressive number of staff was taken on GOB's rolls as the Credit proceeded. The view of the ICR
mission is that a declining scale would have better positioned the Borrower to gradually absorb recurrent
liabilities and ensure the financial sustainability of quality-related interventions. The goal of avoiding
parallel structures did not hold for teacher training or the development of instructional materials, and
project design lacked an adequate exit strategy (as further explained in paras. 4.5 and 6.2).
- 13-



7.2 Supervision:
Bank management allowed, against good practices of project performance management, that BPEP be
supervised by too many task managers, some of them with very short supervision tenures. Each new task
manager seems to have left his/hers own professional imprint that resulted in changes of supervision tactics
and priorities, and also contributed to the adding of activities to the original project design (for example, the
Early Childhood Initiative and the expansion of the project's scope to include grades 6 to 8 of elementary
education). This was counterproductive in the context of the rather weak institutional capacity of GOB to
implement BPEP. A review of the project files indicates that implementation readiness of various BPEP
units were the main concern of supervision missions during the first two years of project implementation.
The delivery of project inputs over the course of the following two years, plus the range of GOB
governance issues which led to suspension and cancellation of the Credit were of most concern during the
last two years. From the start of project implementation in 1993, supervision missions consistently
identified generic problems including: (i) weak implementation capacity and deficient governance by the
GOB; (ii) excessively centralized management with unclear accountability; (iii) delays in budgeting and the
release of agreed funds; (iv) frequent transfer of key managers; (v) hiring of unqualified teachers; (vi)
widespread absenteeism of staff; (vii)l refusal of GOB from 1996 onwards to place qualified counterparts to
the TA or retain contract staff; and (viii) difficulties with procurement and logistics. The legal agreements
were amended in 1997 to address these and other issues that emerged during implementation of the project.
Among the amendments recommended by Bank supervision teams was incorporation of key perfonnance
indicators as an additional Schedule in the Project Agreement.
With respect to issues of governance, several supervision missions flagged: (i) hiring of teachers under
political pressure and non-compliance with agreed merit-based recruitment criteria; (ii) misuse of vehicles
acquired under the project; and (iii) that significant after fees were being extracted by the DCW in the
process of issuing letters of acceptance for construction works. Supervision missions, including SAPP
missions, should be commended for being the driving force in having some these governance issues
addressed by GOB although not all of'them satisfactorily resolved.
It is also evident from a review of the project files that learning processes and outputs were given less
attention by supervision missions during the project, and that the issue of exit strategies, especially in view
of existing parallel structures for teacher training and the development of instructional materials identified
in 1998, was addressed too late in the project's implementation.
A thorough reading of BPEP supervision mission aides-memoire indicates that on several occasions
incorrect signals were given to GOB and Bank management. For example, in April 98, judgments of good
quality of education in BPEP schools were made by the mission even though no classroom observations or
impact studies on the effectiveness of learning inputs (teacher training and textbooks) had been undertaken,
and when the AMPE was still in a developmental stage with no student learning assessments yet available.
In November 1996, when Bank management officially first raised the possibility of Credit suspension, the
supervision mission granted the project a satisfactory rating in the 590 form.
Insufficient supervision budgets (as shown in Annex 4) prevented the configuration of appropriate skill mix
in the supervision teams and limited the number of days of field supervision in the province. For example,
Bank teams did not include an institutional capacity expert who could address the issue of exit strategies
for the transfer of acquired expertise to mainstream institutions or the phasing out of the existing
institutions to favor the ones created by the project. Supervision missions through 1997 focused, for the
- 14 -



most part, on civil works procurement issues. Non-civil work procurement issues were addressed too late
in the life of BPEP. The financial management monitoring aspects of BPEP were given almost no attention
by supervision missions until late in 1998, mostly due to the absence of a financial expert on Bank teams.
There is also little evidence that attention was paid by Bank teams to deteriorating patterns of spending on
primary education during the life of the project until late 1998. Supervision missions flagged the lack of
counterpart funding to the development budget, but due to resistance from GOB to make funds available
from the recurrent budget, the Bank opted instead at the time of amending the legal agreement in 1997 to
reallocate the unallocated category to increase IDA funding to civil works, furniture, textbooks, vehicles,
consultant fees, training, fellowships and grants for NGOs.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Under the very difficult project implementation environment and lack of Borrower's governance, the Bank's
performance is rated satisfactory. Nonetheless, the above sections indicate uneven Bank performance
which leaves significant room for improvement.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Mission aides-memoire, from preparation to appraisal, commended the high quality of preparatory work
done by GOB in producing and approving the Concept Paper and working papers requested by the Bank
preparation team. GOB approved a number of policy measures including bifurcating the existing
Directorate of Schools to establish separate directorates for primary (K-5) and secondary (6- 10) education
(which later; experienced a second bifurcation for K-8 and 9-12). The initial bifurcation was sanctioned in
December 1992, prior to negotiations. GOB's internal planning document (PC-1) was prepared at the time
of project negotiation. All policy measures were agreed at the time of negotiation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
As mentioned in para. 5.2, Bank supervision missions consistently noted that adherence by GOB to BPEP
legal covenants was poor. Starting in 1996, the implementation environment started deteriorating. In
1996, the Bank was informed by civil society that about 400 unqualified primary teachers were recruited
by direct appointment as a result of political pressure from the then Minister of Education of GOB. This
action, in direct contravention of the Credit's legal agreement, was not adequately addressed by GOB to the
point that in 1996 and 1997 the Bank froze approximately US$30 million worth of construction funds until
the problem was finally resolved in early 1998. Then again in 1999, and under a new government, of 2,195
teachers hired against existing posts, between 1,360 and 1,700 were recruited using non-merit-based
criteria. This constituted one of the critical factors leading to suspension. The ICR mission notes that
irregularities, although never warranted, took place during a period of wide-scale corruption and
governance problems. The ICR mission was informed that the problems encountered in implementing
BPEP were not unique to this project alone, but affected all donor projects as well as those involving
government funds.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
DPE (including its TA) managed BPEP and ought to be commended for having produced new textbooks
and teacher guides, provided teacher training on a large-scale and promoted the participation of NGOs in
strengthening community education. However, the continuous changes of DPE directors affected the
capacity of the DPE to implement BPEP effectively. Bank supervision missions consistently noted that
adherence to BPEP legal covenants was poor, in particular with respect to: (i) enabling school heads and
district education officers to dispose of broken school furniture; (ii) ensuring that schools be permitted to
introduce double shifts as might be required to increase student places; (iii) textbooks not being delivered in
a timely manner and in sufficient quantities; (iv) teachers being recruited on non-merit based criteria; (v)
- 15 -



vehicles being misused; and (vi) not providing audit reports within the stipulated time. A dedicated and
trained staff for procurement was never sanctioned or assigned. A significant number of procurements
carried out by DPE were largely unsatisfactory in terms of economy and efficiency with high costs, lack of
timely availability, incompleteness of deliveries and end-use issues, and unacceptable quality of goods,
works and services. Procurement was further affected by a lack of continuous technical support by a Bank
procurement specialist. As detected by some supervision missions, a number of procurements were in
contravention of GOP's own standards.
DPE's financial management systemi remains precarious and in need of urgent attention. The current
accounting system is based on a single entry cash method of accounting which is not fully integrated with
other financial management systems for producing financial reports. There is no system to control
expenditure through an integrated chart of accounts, thus opening the possibility for misclassification of
expenditures while preparing SOEs. Quarterly Management Reports (QMR) were prepared more toward
showing project progress than for comaparing actual expenditure against budgetary allocations to determine
periodic variance and provide information for use in planning and management processes. GOB release of
funds was often delayed. There is no evidence that BPEP's fixed assets were physically verified and that
differences between actual and recorded items were investigated. No regular internal audit reports were
produced on the viability of BPEP's accounting system and implementation process. Finally, insurance
coverage was not obtained for any BPEP-funded assets. Control over budget issues was not sufficiently
divided between different DPE staff to ensure necessary cross-checking. Because of inherent internal
control weaknesses in the financial management system, govermnent auditors have mostly made
observations only related to the non-deduction of income tax and doubtful expenditures.
Further progress to strengthen the soundness of BPEP's financial management system is urgently required
with respect to the: (i) adoption of a system of double entry, either through cash accounting or modified
accrual based-accounting; (ii) classification of expenditures according to the integrated chart of accounts;
(iii) comparison of actual and budgetary expenditures to analyze variances as part of the QMR; (iv)
acquisition of necessary insurance coverage for vehicles and other fixed assets acquired under the project;
(v) staffing the system with an adequate number and mix of skilled and experienced staff who understand
accounting concepts to monitor accounts and prepare obligatory financial statements.
Audit reports were, in general, not sutbmitted in a timely manner as required by the DCA and PA. The
format of audit reports, including the opinion of the auditor, did not adhere to IDA guidelines. At the time
of the ICR mission, there were about 22 observations from the FYI 996-97 audit report and three
observations from the FYl997-98 audit report still pending settlement by GOB, and no action had been
taken by GOB on 19 observations from the FYI 998-99 audit report received by the DPE on March 9,
2000. Finally, the account for the six months ending December 31, 1999 had not yet been audited at the
time of the ICR mission.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above evidence, Borrower's performance is uneven. With respect to achieving increased
access and improving the learning environment, the performance is rated as satisfactory. With respect to
enhancing community participation in primary education, the performance is rated as highly satisfactory.
Finally, with respect to developing the capacity to sustain BPEP gains, the performance is rated as
unsatisfactory.
- 16 -



8. Lessons Learned
During preparation to appraisal stage:
1.    Avoid complex project designs having many components and sub-components in a context of weak
institutional implementation capacity.
2.    If parallel structures are considered, project design must include an agreed exit strategy with a
step-wise plan of action which delineates clear benchmarks during all stages of project
implementation to ensure a gradual transfer of acquired capacity to mainstream institutions or a
phasing out of mainstream institutions if project-created structures are to prevail at project
completion.
3.    Ensure borrower's ownership of project design in every phase of project preparation.
4.     Ensure that procurement capacity of the implementing agency is properly assessed during project
preparation, steps taken in the project design to strengthen it and that Bank procurement guidelines
are fully understood by the Borrower. A procurement plan should be completed prior to
negotiations to ensure that disbursements could commence immediately upon effectiveness.
5.    Ensure inclusion of sound financial management system in the project design.
6.    A declining scale which allows the Borrower to gradually absorb recurrent liabilities should be
considered for the allocation of recurrent resources in Schedule 1 of the legal agreement.
7.    Appropriately targeting mechanisms complementing targeting priorities have been proven to
improve equity.
During project implementation:
1.    Bank management ought to ensure continuity in supervision teams to avoid: (i) frequent changes in
supervision tactics and priorities; and (ii) unwarranted changes in the original project design.
2.     Supervision missions need to give more emphasis to procurement and financial management
aspects through adequate and periodic technical support to these matters.
3.    Ensure that supervision missions are backed by appropriate budgets, sufficient time for field visits
and staffed with the adequate skill mix needed to address relevant project issues.
4.     Ensure that managerial and technical counterparts units are kept fully staffed with qualified
personnel during project implementation and that continuity of these staff is maintained throughout.
5.    Toward ensuring sustainability beyond project completion, project processes and outcomes and, in
particular, the implementation of agreed exit strategies should receive more attention from
supervision missions midway through project implementation.
6.    Ensure involvement of the community in school-related issues during project implementation to
increase teacher accountability and support other aspects related to the improved functioning of
schools.
7.    Taking to scale successful interventions need to consider the time required to build additional
capacity to ensure appropriate follow up and quality in the delivery of the interventions. loo much
too soon leads to serious operational drawbacks.
8.    Demand-driven interventions involving community participation in managing school-related issues
have been proven effective worldwide to reduce teacher absenteeism and increase access of
children to school, in particular of girls.
9.    Need-based teacher training activities involving periodic peer interaction and on-site follow up
have proven effective to change teaching practices in the classroom.
10.   Ensure that TA, if required, do not assume the project implementation driving role.
11.   Ensure the involvement of qualified NGOs in the design and implementation of project-related
interventions for which they have shown proven expertise.
- 17 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As described in more detail in Annex 8, BPEP has been a successful educational development program
because of its innovative approaches and specially designed strategies for increasing the level of
educational access and equity, for establishing successful community-government partnerships and for
providing the foundation for long-terrn sustainability. All targets were achieved in quantitative terms ahead
of schedule. In particular, girls' enrolilment in primary schools (grades K to 5) increased by 200 percent
during the project period, from 115,000 in 1993 to 256,000 in 1999. The CSP resulted in the opening of
more than 1,300 new girls' primary schools and was hailed internationally as an outstanding example of
community-government partnership.
Constraints encountered included a lack of effective transfer of skills from technical advisors to
counterparts, problems with staffing, both in terms of recruitment and retention of qualified staff, delays in
the establishment of key units in the DPE, underestimates of the cost to maintain new buildings, and an
overall lack of adequate financial resources for the continuation of many activities begun under BPEP. An
important lesson from the BPEP is that planning should be undertaken at the start of a project to ensure
adequate financial resources for new structures and activities beyond the completion of the project. Other
lessons include: permnanent staff rather than short term contract staff should act as counterparts to technical
experts to ensure that capacity building remains within the DPE; local consultants should be hired as
technical experts whenever possible; the Bank should provide adequate training to government staff in
financial management; there should be no modification of fees paid to technical experts during the course of
the project and the cost of consultants should not exceed 5 per cent of the total project cost.
The challenge now is how achievements made under BPEP can be sustained and to identify possible
sources of funding to support them. For the welfare of the children of Balochistan, it is important that
activities continue at the primary level, and with more children completing the primary cycle that access to
elementary education increases.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no co-financiers in BPEP, although the project benefited from a number of simultaneous and
complimentary activities financed in parallel by other donors. For example, parts of the MFTTU were
funded by the Government of the Netherlands' PEQIP program while the improved hygiene instruction and
the installation of hand pumps at primary schools were funded by UNICEF.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
During a meeting held with several NCOs during the ICR mission, they acknowledged their crucial role
resulting in the dramatic increase in girls' enrollment. They highlighted their undertaking of community
surveys to identify those which qualified for the establishment of a CSP school as well as their participation
in conununity mobilization, and the constitution and training of VECs. They pointed out to some
drawbacks during project implementation including: (i) their financial dependency on GOB; (ii) political
interference taking place in communities with fragile VECs in their early stages of development; and (iii)
the fast pace of expansion that resulted in a decline in the quality of the service provided.
10. Additional Information
There is no additional inforrnation.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome - imeact Indicators:
-Increase the rate of girls' enrollment as a    1998 census data faulty.    -37.3 percent for girls and 56.7 percent for
percentage of eligible age-group from 15 to  Spring 1999 data not available until after    boys.
29 percent and those for boys from 49 to 72  Credit was suspended.
percent. This target was amended during
the restructuring to 40 percent for girls and
65 percent for boys at the end of the project.
-Increase in enrollment for girls in Classes                                -Estimated girls enrollment was 233,000 and
K-5 from 108,163 in 1993 to 274,271 and for                                 for boys 407,000
boys 366,193 to 430,232.
-Reduce dropout rate for girls from 17 to 11                                -Girls' dropout rate 13 percent.
percent and for boys from 14 to 10 percent                                  Boys' dropout rate 12.8 percent
-Reduce girls' repetition rate for Classes K -                              -Girls' average repetition rate of 14 percent
5 from 15 to 10 percent and for boys from 13                                (1996-97 school year)
to 10 percent.                                                              Boys' average repetition rate of 9.4 percent
(1996-97 school year)
-Increase average promoton rate from Class                                  -Promotion rates from Class 5 to 6 for girls is
5 to 6 for girls from 47 to 64 percent and for                              estimated at about 80.3 percent and for boys
boys from 45 to 64 percent.                                                 at about 79.6 percent.
-Increase primary completion rate (K-5) for                                 -Completion rate (K-5) for girls is 29 percent
girls from 12 to 25 percent and for boys from                               and for boys is 28 percent.
14 to 25 percent.
-Increase elementary completion rate (Class                                 -Promotion rates from Class 6 to 8 for girls is
6 to 8) for girls from 32 to 65 percent and for                             estimated at about 79.7 percent and for boys
boys from 57 to 70 percent.                                                 at about 67.7 percent.
-Increase number of girls in Class 5 from                                   -Girls enrollment in Class 5 is about 17,000
8,800 to 17,500 and the number of boys from                                 and of boys is about 34,800.
36,300 to 42,000.
-Reduce absenteeism rate of teachers.                                       -No data have been collected, yet teacher
absenteeism in govemment schools is
rampant, whereas in CSP schools i has
been dramatically curtailed due to community
involvement in school-related activities.
-Increase overall student/teacher ratio from                                -Overall student/teacher ratio is 26:1, for girls
28:1 to 30:1,for girls from 26:1 to 30:1 and                                31:1 anddforboysfrom24:1. Thetotal
for boys from 28:1 to 30:1.                                                 number of female teachers Increased from
5,829 to 9,746 while those of male teachers
went from 23,794 to 26,398. In rural areas
the number of female teachers increased
from 767 to 7,400 while those of male
teachers went froml3,853 to 20,200.
-Increase readingflanguage competency at                                    -Information is not available.
class 3 for girls and boys from baseline to 75
percent and for class 5 to 80 percent.
-Improve math competency at class 3 for                                     -Informabon is not available.
girds and boys from baseline to 75 percent
and for class 5 to 80 percent.
End of project
- 19 -



Output Indicators:
tt  0000S t  i  ,,.,r,,,0, t-siW 0it77777  =7'                                                P'00  
Complete 5,235 classrooms.                                                  4,199 new schools and 1,475 new
cassrooms were construded or rehabilitated
by the project.
Provide scholarships to 2,400 girls.                                        A total of 6,664 girls benefited from
scholarships paid to 40 urban private
schools, and another 22 rural fellowships
schools with a total enrollment of about 1,000
girls remained opened at the end of the
project.
Provide in-service training for about 18,000                                About 8,600 untrained teachers, 1,500 of
certified teachers and on-service training to                               which were female, were trained and certified
8,000 untrained and uncertified teachers                                    through BPEP, effectively clearing the
already on the job.                                                         backlog of untrained teachers in Balochistan.
The Primary Teachers Mentoring Program
(PTMP) has engaged about 10,000 teachers
and 260 mentors in monthly two-day
workshops in 19 out of 26 districts.
Provide PTC equivalency to 400 females                                      The MFTTU trained about 3,300 girls in
through the Mobile Female Teacher Training                                  remote rural areas, transforming them into a
Unit (MFTTU)                                                                pool of teachers eligible for girls' govemment
and CSP schools.
Provide mulW-grade student centered core
texts, supplementary readers and teachers
guides.
Restructure the Department of Education to                                  A DPE was established. However the
form a separate Directorate of Primary                                      structural, organizational and funcional
Education                                                                   arrangements to ensure joint management of
Classes K to 8 under a Directorate of
Elementary Education have yet to be
completed.
Establish a policy, research and evaluation                                 The Balochistan Educabon Management
function with the DPE.                                                      Information System is fuly operational,
although critical technical posts are vacant,
while the Assessment Monitoring and
Performance Evaluation unit is still in its early
stages of development and currently void of
technical experienced staff.
Recruit and maintain the necessary                                          Quality-related capacity buiit at the DPE with
administrative and teaching staff to meet the                               respect to teacher training, development of
need of the system.                                                         leaming materials, constructon and
monitoring has been dismantled.
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Pt~~~~ ~ ~ (ot  .y                                    M     :   ; n
Improving access, equity and efficiency               80.70            59.20            73
Improving the learning environment                    20.30             9.50            47
Improving organizational framework, planning and      18.50            18.00            97
management
Community-based and NGO education                      0.50             0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                                  120.00            86.70
Total Project Costs              120.00           86.70
Total Financing Required              120.00            86.70
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate US$ million equivalent_
1. Works                     0.00         60.10        0.00         0.00         60.10
(0.00)       (56.80)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (56.80)
2. Goods                     4.80         12.80        2.40         0.00         20.00
(4.20)      (10.90)       (1.80)       (0.00)       (16.90)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         10.30         0.00         10.30
Local and International     (0.00)       (0.00)       (9.00)       (0.00)        (9.00)
Consultancy Services
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         11.90         0.00         11.90
FellowshipslStudy Tour;     (0.00)       (0.00)       (11.80)       (0.00)       (11.80)
Local Training and Policy
Studies
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         5.20         0.00          5.20
Incremental Salary          (0.00)       (0.00)       (5.20)        (0.00)       (5.20)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         12.50        0.00         12.50
Building and Vehicle        (0.00)       (0.00)       (6.20)       (0.00)        (6.20)
Maintenance
Total                     4.80         72.90        42.30         0.00        120.00
______________________    . (4.20)  (67.70)  (34.00)      (0.00)       (105.90)
-21 -



Proect Costs by Procuremt Arrangements (ActualLatest Estimate  US$ million equivalent
1. Works                       0.00           45.54         0.00           0.00          45.54
(0.00)        (44.41)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (44.41)
2. Goods                       0.00           17.78          1.00          0.00          18.78
(0.00)        (13.64)        (0.50)        (0.00)        (14.14)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          16.85          0.00          16.85
Local and Intemational        (0.00)         (0.00)        (16.85)        (0.00)        (16.85)
Consultancy Services
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          2.00           0.00           2.00
Fellowships/Study Tour;        (0.00)        (0.00)         (2.00)        (0.00)         (2.00)
Local Training and Policy
Studies
5. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          2.70           0.00           2.70
Incremental Salary            O(.00)         (0.00)         (0.76)        (0.00)         (0.76)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00           1.36          0.00           1.36
Building and Vehicle          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.73)        (0.00)         (0.73)
Maintenance                     .
Total                        0.00          63.32         23.91          0.00          87.23
_   (0).00)        (58.05)       (20.84)        (0.00)        (78.89)
The small discrepancy between the total of US$87.23 million shown in this table and the total disbursement
of US$86.7 million reported in section 5.4 and in the table below stems from rounding errors and the exact
exchange rate utilized in the calculation of GOB's total counterpart funding estimated at US$7.95 million.
IDA's total disbursement amount of US$78.8 million is consistent in all the tables and in section 5.4
"1 Figures in parenthesis are the amounits to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Proiect Financing by Cormonent (in IJSS million equivalent)
,       iEib_t_,__  t011l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M1
Improving Access, Equity    70.80  9.90     0.00      55.20      4.04              78.0   40.8   0.0
and Efficiency
Improving the Learning  17.50     '2.80     0.00       5.95      3.53              34.0  126.1   0.0
Environment
Improving Organizational   17.20   [.30     0.00      17.65      0.38              102.6  29.2   0.0
Framework, Planning and
Management
Community-based and      0.50               0.00       0.00                        0.0    0.0    0.0
NGO Education
Total Cost              106.00    14.00               78.80      7.95              74.3   56.8   0.0
- 22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal, nor was it done at
the time of the ICR.
-23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
() Missions:.
Stage of Projectycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty-            performance Rating
( 2.g. 2Economists, I          EM$, etc  ml  tation     Developmnent
t ~ 00Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
IdentificationlPreparation          3   One educator, one project
August 13-22,1991                  advisor and one economist
January 5-13, 1992            7   Two educators, one project
advisor, one implementation
specialist, one community
development specialist, one
economist and one private
school specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
May 3-31, 1992                6   Two educators, one project
advisor, one implementation
specialist, one community
development specialist and
one economist
September 12-24, 1992         7   Two educators, one book
specialist, one implementation
specialist, one economist, one
procurement specialist and one
disbursement specialist
February 1-5, 1993             7   Two educators, one from
LEGSA, one from LOAAS, one
procurement specialist, one
project advisor and one
implementation specialist
Supervision
November 1993                 10  Two education specialists,             S                HS
one USAID project officer;
two project advisors, one
implementation specialist,
one economist; one
evaluation specialist and two
private sector specialists
June 1994                      6  Two education specialists, one         S                HS
economist, one project advisor,
one implementation specialist
and one private sector evaluation
consultant
November 1994                  3  One project advisor; one               S                HS
educator and one architect
April 1995                     4  One economist, one                     S                HS
implementation specialist, one
project advisor and one human
resources specialist
- 24 -



November 1995                  4   One human resources specialist,      S                 HS
one economist, one private sector
specialist and one architect
April 1996                     4  One human resources specialist;       S                 HS
one economist, one architect and
one project advisor
October 1996                   6  One human resources specialist,       S                  S
one architect, one education
specialist, one economist, one
cost analyst and one early
childhood development specialist
September - October 1997       5  One human resources specialist,       S                  S
one architect, one education
specialist, one financial
management specialist and one
early childhood development
specialist
April - May 1998               5  Two educators, two economist          S                  S
and one architect
November 1998                  5  One education specialist, one         U                  U
human resources specialist, one
economist, one social scientist
and architect
February 1999                  3  One economist (team leader),          U                 U
one education specialist and one
manager
May 1999                       4   One manager (team leader), two       U                 U
(SAPP/BPEP joint review)           education specialists and one
architect
July 1999                      5  Three education specialist, one       U                 U
architect and one team assistant
ICR
March 2000                   10   Five education specialists,
(5from    one human resource
HQ)   specialist, two procurement
specialists, one financial
management specialist and
one disbursement officer
(four education specialists
and one human resource
specialist from HQ)
-25 -



(b) Staff:
Sta  ofP t                               Actua Latest Estimatei:
f _  :3000__________.:______::  _  N. S:Itafweeks :tUS$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation   _
Appraisal/Negotiation                   83.0                     248,000
Supervision                            239.2                     488,000
ICR                                     21.6                      71,700
Total                                  343.8                     807,700
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
FSector Policies                           O H  OSU@M  O N  O NA
F Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
2 Institutional Development                O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            * H OSUOM O N O NA
M Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Public sector management
O Other (Please specify)
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactary, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                          OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
El Preparation                                      OHS OS  O U  O HU
E Government implementation perforwance            O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agencyperformance                OHS OS  * U  O HU
O Overall                                          OHS OS * u O HU
The performance of the implementalion agency is rated S up to early 1996 and then rated U onwards due to
misprocurement and spending patterns leading to cancellation of the Credit.
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Government of Balochistan, Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII). Multi-Donor Review
Mission, National Overview, Aide-Memoire, Vols. I and III, February 22, and revised February 23,
2000.
Government of Balochistan, Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII). Multi-Donor Review
Mission, Aide-Memoire, February 5, 2000.
Government of Pakistan. Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII), Operational Plan Decision
Review Team, Aide-Memoire for Provinces, Vol. III of HI, Reviewed in Islamabad August 6, 1999.
Government of Pakistan. Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII), Multi-Donor Review Mission,
Aide-Memoire for Provinces and FATA, Vol. In of III, Reviewed in Islamabad May 17, 1999.
Government of Pakistan. Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII), Federal Review of SAP, and
Federal Programs/Federal Area Programs, Aide-Memoire, Vol. 1, Reviewed in Islamabad December
19, 1998.
Govermment of Pakistan. Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII), Federal Area and Provincial
SAP Program Reviews, Multi-Donor Review Mission, Aide-Memoire, Vol. II, Reviewed in Islamabad
December 9, 1998.
Govermment of Pakistan. Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII), Federal Areas, Federal
Programs and Provincial Programs, Aide-Memoire, Vol. II. August 4, 1998.
Government of Pakistan. Second Social Action Program Project (SAPPII), Aide-Memoire for Provinces
and FATA, Vol. II. Reviewed in Peshawar 4-5 May 1998.
Office of the Director General Audit, Balochistan, Audit Report on Balochistan Primary Education
Development Programme, IDA Credit No. 2482-PAK, for the Year 1998-99.
Correspondence during Restructuring of BPEP and Aide-Memoire. World Bank. 1997.
Environment Data Sheet For Project. World Bank. May 29 1993.
Development Credit Agreement (Balochistan Primary Education Project) between Islamic Republic of
Pakistan and International Development Association, Credit Number 2482-PAK. World Bank. May
19, 1993.
Project Agreement (Balochistan Primary Education Project) between International Development
Association and Province of Balochistan, Credit Number 2482-PAK, May 19, 1993.
Staff Appraisal Report. World Bank. March 10, 1993.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. World Bank. February 5, 1993.
Various Project Status Report. World Bank. 1993-1999.
- 29 -



Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
September-October, 1992.
Final Executive Project Summary. World Bank. August 7, 1992.
Pre-appraisal Mission Terms ofRefirence, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
April-June 1992.
Initial Executive Project Summary. World Bank. September 1991.
Reconnaissance (Identification) Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-to-Office Report.
World Bank. July-September, 1991.
Peer Reviewers' Comments During Project Preparation and Appraisal. World Bank. 1991-1992.
Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back to Office Report. World Bank.
December 1991- March 1992.
Aide-Memoires of Various Supervision Mission. World Bank. November 1993, June 1994, November
1994, April 1995, November 1995, April 1996, October 1996, September 1997, April 1998,
November 1998, February 1999, May 1999 and July 1999.
- 30 -



Annex 8. Contribution from the Borrower
INTRODUCTION
A decade ago, primary education in Balochistan was at its lowest ebb, in general, but girls
education, in particular, was negligible. Keeping this bleak situation in view, the government realized the
necessity to promote 'primary education', specifically for girls in Balochistan. International donors also
realized this as a priority area and decided to promote primary education through the Primary Education
Development Program. It is worthwhile mentioning that the International Development Association
(IDA), when commencing an educational program of this magnitude, would always consider the
sustainability aspect, to ensure that on-going activities are not discontinued, thus creating a void, leaving a
negative impact on the already deprived children of Balochistan, particularly girls. The Development
Credit Agreement between the Government of Pakistan/Balochistan and the International Development
Association (IDA) was signed in May 1993 at a total cost of US$120.00 million. IDA had to invest
$106.00 million and GOB had to provide $14.00 million as counter part funding. The credit became
effective 31st July, 1993. The Government of Balochistan, with the concurrence of IDA, restructured the
program in 1999 which extended the credit up to 31 st December, 1999.
The program emphasized enhancing, access, equity, quality, community, participation and
sustainability. The major components of the program were:
4 Administration and Management
4 Construction
* Balochistan Instructional Material Development and Training Cell
* Teacher Training and support
No doubt the BPEP has achieved exemplary success in many areas of its various activities, e.g.
BEMIS, JIS, Teacher Training and Support AMPE, Beneficiary Participation, Community involvement
building facility, commodity support, opening of girls schools through CSP process, mentor teacher
training program financial management system, staff development provision of teachers to overcrowded
schools and in instructional materials development. The question now arises as to how these components
are to be sustained and what would be the source of funding. SAPP- 11 is a ray of light through which
these on-going activities could be sustained, thus promoting educational awareness amongst the people of
Balochistan. For the welfare of children of Balochistan, it is not only important that these activities
should continue, but a step further should be taken into consideration, i.e. provide access from primary to
elementary education. It is worth mentioning that some problems faced during the previous year affected
the performance of BPEP. The BPEP has not only mounted the problems but has also ensured that they
do not arise in the future.
Achievements
The BPEP has been a successful educational development program because of its innovative
approaches and specially designed strategies towards increasing the level of educational access and equity
for making significant gains in order to build very successful community-Government partnerships and
for providing the foundation for long term sustainability. Furthermore, all fixed targets have been
achieved in quantitative terms ahead of the time schedule. Girls' enrollment in primary schools (grades
Kachhi to V) increased by 200 percent during the period of project implementation, from 115,000 in 1993
to almost 256,000 in 1999. The increase in boys' enrollment over the same period was only 18 percent
from 384,000 in 1993 to about 453,000 in 1999.
- 31 -



1.    Administration and Management
A well thought-out and thoroughly implemented plan for the development of a strong and
sustainable Directorate of Primary E,ducation, has been implemented to the best possible extent and has
thus laid a strong foundation for the creation of the Elementary Directorate. All required key posts for
each component have been sanctioned and converted into the recurrent budget.
Prior to the inception of BPEP, the administrative staff of PED consisted of one Additional
Director, three Deputy Directors and four Assistant Directors. But during the project period a number of
posts were created to strengthen the supervision process. Now PED has one Director, two Additional
Directors, eight Deputy Directors and eleven Assistant Directors. Technical posts are in addition to these.
There were only 6 DEOs and 2 SDEOs for twenty-six districts and 50 sub-divisions of the province.. Now
each and every district is being looked after by a DEO or SDEO. The number of female DEOs has gone
up from 6 to 13 and that of female SDEOs has increased from 2 to 1 1.
Constraints and future goals
In-spite of an increase in posts of supervisory staff there is still room for further expansion. Four
additional female and eight male SDEOs are required for better supervision and monitoring in sub-
divisions of various districts. At least 4 ASDEOs and 6 Learning Coordinators are required in each
district to form a team for monitoring existing schools and opening of new schools through the CSP
process. Highly qualified persons are needed to be inducted in the education system as LCs. They can
provide professional and academic support to teachers besides assistance in the expansion of female
education.
1.1    Beneficiary Participation
The community Support Process (CSP) has been a major initiative. This process has
resulted in the opening of more than 1300 new girls' primary schools till the end of
project and facilitated the increase in enrollment of girls who were previously denied
access to primary education. The number of girls' schools in the province increased from
907 to 2416. It would be pertinent to mention here that the CSP process has been
internationally hailed as one of the most outstanding examples of community-government
partnership by providing girls education in the areas where, social and cultural barriers
have long impeded the education of girls.
*: The CSP process started with the cooperation of NGOs and resulted in expansion of girls'
education and increases in the literacy rate.
* During the project period PED adopted very effective strategies which helped in
motivating the communities to send their girls to schools. Prior to this endeavor the
people in some rural areas were not ready to send even the boys to schools.
*: In girls' schools, opened through CSP process, Village Education Committees (VEC)
male and female were formed to follow the 14-points of agreement which reflects the
partnership between government and communities. The VEC played a vital role in the
promotion of awareness and to gear up the motivation for promotion of girls' education in
rural Balochistan.
This initiative resulted in expansion of girls' education and enhancement of enrollment in girls'
schools.
- 32 -



Constraints and Future Goals
A base has been provided for girls' education in the province. Now there is a need to sustain and
continue the efforts made during the Project period. This is possible only if:
*  The monitoring of existing schools be continued either by hiring the services of NGOs or
providing the government functionaries i.e. ADEO and Learning Coordinators in required
number. However a sustainability plan has been prepared to ensure an effective supervision
of CSP schools.
* If these schools were not properly monitored the motivation and participation factor will
suffer which will ultimately affect the female/girls participation rate, which is already very
low.
* At present, according to BEMIS record over 15000 graduates of class five require access to
elementary education. If not provided the female participation rate will drop.
These issues if not immediately addressed by the decision-makers, the females in the semi urban,
rural and far flung areas will be adversely affected.
The main idea behind the formation of PTSMC was to provide community leadership at the
school level, so that the committees should look after their institutions themselves. The Government
provided financial assistance to PTSMC so that they can carry out some repair work in schools and
purchase instructional material for students. The reports of the NGOs and Government functionaries
reflect that these committees have performed a remarkable task of community involvement.
1.2   The Balochistan education Management Information System (BENS)
This is the only system of its kind operating in Pakistan which has a computer and up-to-
date school, student and enrollment data, based on the two annual-census collections,
since 1990. The Geographical Information System (GIS) was the first of its kind and is
being copied across the country and elsewhere. The BEMIS has also been the focus of
study by international visitors and EMIS personal from other provinces. This cell has
been extended to 31 sub-cells. The data helps the decision-makers for future planning
e.g.:
* Site selection for construction of schools, additional classrooms and repair/rehabilitation
of schools
* Provision of additional teachers
4* Supply of instructional materials, reading writing materials and commodities
4 Up-gradation of schools
4 Identification of low enrollment schools and their merger, etc.
- 33 -



Constraints and future
Critical technical positions are lying vacant because competent persons are not ready to join due
to low salary package. There is a firnancial resource constraint to keep this planning-friendly system
going. The system worked very efficiently under the contract employees who did not transfer the
technology to the permanent staff.
1.3    Assessment, Monitoring & Performance Evaluation (AMPE)
This important cell was established when the project was at its last legs. The consultants
appointed did not demonstrate the required competency. Even the Chief Technical
Advisor, who undertook the charge of the cell for some time did not have time for the
cell. The AMPE, a very significant component remained neglected and neither achieved
the target nor transferred knowledge. The cell will be activated under the Evaluation and
Monitoring Program envisaged in SAPP II.
2.    Construction
During the program 4,267 sil:es were planned for the construction of primary schools, additional
classrooms, latrine blocks, boundary walls and rehabilitation of existing primary schools. These targets
have been achieved. 80% of these schools have been provided the commodity support. More than 1,500
shelterless girls and boys primary schools qualify for new buildings, out of these, 700 are CSP schools.
The Government is committed to provide buildings to CSP schools to ensure its sustainability. This
program will, however require financial resources. The local consultants played an effective role in the
preparation of tender documents, des:igns and drawings, site selection and monitoring of civil works. The
abrupt suspension of reimbursement has left the government with liabilities of Rs. 26,167 million for
which the government has to suspend some other very important programs.
Construction and future
The project has very aptly changed the local mud structure into permanent RCC structure but it
did not visualize the maintenance cost of the buildings which government cannot afford. 300 CSP schools
opened during the project have not been given buildings. Communities are emphasizing to the
government to fulfill the promise.
3.   Teacher Training and Support
This cell was setup to provide Pre-Service and In-Service Training to the teachers appointed
under the government approved relaxed rules. It provided training to 9,000 untrained teachers and
catered to special training needs of 2,071 female teachers in rural areas where no training institute was
available. Furthermore, 32,101 teachers were provided reinforcement in Urdu, Math, Science, Social
Studies and Phonic of Kachi Qaida. T he Teacher Training and Support (TT&S) has also provided
training to 384 Learning Coordinators. Primary Teachers Mentoring Program has given a regional
recognition to the cell. It is an on-going cost effective Professional Development Program. The TT&S
also managed the training of 12 Master Trainers through Agha Khan University, Karachi. This cell was
lucky enough to get very good consultant and competent local experts, therefore it attained most of its
objectives.
- 34 -



3.1    Primary Teacher Mentoring Program
Most recently the TT&S has raised the professional development of teachers in far-flung
areas of the province through locally based school clusters using master trainers and
mentors trained through the TTS process. More than 10,000 teachers are receiving
monthly training in these clusters in 26 districts.
3.2    Crash Teachers Training Program
In 1993 to 1995, 9,000 previously untrained teachers were trained to PTC level. Twelve-
day in-service training courses planned for 33,301 teachers out of which 28,101 teachers
have completed the training. The remaining teachers will be trained by the end of
December 1999. To date, 6,121 teachers have been trained in Math and Science. 5,735
teachers in Urdu and Social Studies, 12,745 in Kachhi Qaida (Phonics) and 3,500 in
multi-grade training.
3.3    Basic Health and Hygiene Training (PEGCPS)
In collaboration with UNICEF, 480 teachers have been provided training in Basic Health
and Hygiene education in girls' primary schools in Quetta, Kalat Mastung and Killa-
Saffullah.
3.4    Balochistan Instructional Material Development Cell (BIMDTC)
This component of the program was responsible for developing textbooks, teacher guides
and other instructional materials to Kachhi to Class V. The cell has developed 42 titles of
textbooks and guides besides charts, posters and other instructional materials which have
been approved by the Federal Curriculum Wing of the Ministry of Education. The
textbooks have for first time been developed on scientific basis in the country under the
BPEP.
Constraints and Future Goals
BIMDTC is facing a dilemma. Although all required posts have been filled and are on the
recurrent budget, staff working in BIMDTC are not well trained as the technology required has not been
fully transferred from BPEP specialists to the Government people. This aspect will not only become a
hurdle in the implementation of future plans but also overburden the available resources. No doubt this
cell has successfully completed its target of providing students with informative Child Centered and
attractive textbooks and instructional materials. It needs to be sustained so that the invested resources
should not be drained out. The sustainability of this cell and availability of resources are essential for not
only continuing the on-going activities but also for providing base for development of instructional
materials for elementary education.
The development of new texts for grades Kachhi through five has only just been completed as the
first step in the materials development process. All of these books will need further review and revision
as teachers become more familiar with the child-centered and student activity orientation of the materials
and provide feedback to the experts.
- 35 -



Recommendations
*: The most important lesson learned is that whenever a project is signed, it should be fully
visualized and planned so that the new organizations and programs are provided perennial
financial support even after the end of the project so that the investment is not drained.
*. Ensure that instead appointing contract staff, the foreign consultants use the services of the
employees of mainstream units and train them to take over responsibility independently.
*: Efforts should be made to engage local consultants, but in the case of dire necessity regional
consultants should be locked for.
* No modification in the emnoluments of consultants and no contract staff should be allowed
during the project period. It enhances the burden of the borrowers.
*: Cost of the consultancy services should not be agreed beyond 5% of the project cost. In the
case of BPEP it was more than 10%.
* The financial managemernt of the project is a specialized skill. Therefore, it is imperative that
the staff are properly trained by the donors. In the present case the staff had to use the trial
and error method for procurement record keeping and cash register maintenance.
*: The supervisory missions should evaluate Project performance at a larger scale instead of
basing their judgements on a small sample.
* No short-term consultants should be hired. The team should at-least 12-MM. Spouses should
not be engaged in a project.
*: All the specific and general conditions of agreement should be equally applicable and
agreeable both to the recipient and the donors.
4. The Bank has refused to reimburse the incremental cost (100% reimbursable) of above
Rs.60.00 million. The Bank should reconsider its decision as it has left the GOB in a bad
financial crunch.
- 36 -



MAP SECTION






IBRD 24497
6io  66    &KISTAAIKISTAN                          TAIWISTAN
36'
36 t         -                              ~~~AFGHANIS>TAN                               <~ 
PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM   4/ Appro.imateLineof Contro
PtR3OAM PROVINCE                                                                     AD    JAMMU A
-     NATIONAL ROADS
-     RAILWAYS
zD PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                               1992
St @ N~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT10NALCAPITAL {|/ ss
PROVINCE BOUNDARIESt                                                           rU      ,    ,       _ j
WNrINERNATIONALEBOUNOARIES                            )(                    0         n                           2
To                   z           c       Kalot<             \\                >         >ToaKo.dahor  N 
28'~                                                t            Jcoabo         bo         a      //                                                       28'
iR-4As }BALOCHISTAN                                                        s                                              Si
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or ,>NDin                     eA 
< f IBela ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  <_o,20r 4;, 6,0, E,0 ,10,0
t       <           /      <                 tA  , Nawo~~~~~~~~~~bshah
{                  A   A  3   t S~~~~~~INDH  .
_ _< / Hyde~~~~~~~~~~~~~~robad 
L2k- . <    .   .;   -   '   .    )  /        ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 9                                     welu _lytor~~~i.Wh.c  24V
r;   t  ,,,    .   @.     .  ,  ...       ,- +,',.'                                                  74'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
DECEMBER 1 992






co'               63                                                                 6                         6
P A K I S T A N
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
AVAILABILITY OF BOYS SCHOOLS BY DISTRICT                                                                --
BOYS SCHOOLS PER                                           -fZ H O B
31'P_ DiSTRICT BOUNDARIES                   ILA ,
0.66 TO 1.04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAKSMITIIS~ 
j   s   0.66 TO 1.04         ~~~~~~~~~DIVISION BOUNDARIES    PISHIN rwUL ,AH
/       1,05 TO 1.38    -F .   ~~PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                              5
/ 1.39 TO 1.53 _ ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     L O R A A I
6E'                                                 _                                                      _r_  =e _*7
1.54 TO 2.63~~~~~~5.~2



I



0'
0'   61'                     6S                      66                       67-                     6r                      a'.
P A K I S T A N
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
AVAILABILITY OF GIRLS SCHOOLS BY DISTRICT
GIRLS SCHOOLS PER 
DISTRICT 'BOUNDARIESAN   SEA  ,.,:  -  .....    .  .  o   .  X           24'
iF                                                 ia'                                       i'      Mt' :   -6 ?we7



