Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11403-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
MARCH 10, 1993
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
US$1.00 = Rs 25 (March 1993)
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ADB         =   Asian Development Bank
BEMIS       =   Balochistan Education Management Information System
BPEP        =   Balochistan Primary Education Program
BPS         =   Basic Pay Scale
BRSP        =   Balochistan Rural Support Program
BTB         =   Balochistan Textbook Board
CY          =   Calendar Year
DCW         =   Directorate of Civil Works
DPE         =   Directorate of Primary Education
DPEO        =   District Primary Education Officer
EEC         =   European Economic Community
GCET        =   Government College for Elementary Teachers
GOB         =   Government of Balochistan
IDA         =   International Development Association
IMDTC       =   International Materials Development and Training Cell
KfW         =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MFTTP       =   Mobile Female Teacher Training Program
NGO         =   Non-governmental Organization
NORAD       =   Norwegian Agency for Development
NWFP        =   North-West Frontier Province
ODA              Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PC-l        =   Planning Commission Pro-forma Number 1
PEP II      =   Second Primary Education Project
PTAC        =   Primary Teachers Accelerated Certificate
PTC         =   Primary Teaching Certificate
SAP         =   Social Action Program
SOE         =   Statement of Expenditures
SPO/CIDA    =   Small Projects Office/Canadian International
Development Agency
UNICEF      =   United Nations Children's Fund
USAID PED   =   United States Agency for International Development,
Primary Education Development Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  .i..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND AND ISSUES    ..1
A.   Introduction  .    .   .    .   .   .    .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . 1
B.  System Characteristics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          1
C. Sectoral Issues.                                                          2
Access, Equity and Efficiency.                                        3
Learning Environment.                                                 4
Organization, Planning and Management . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Beneficiary Participation ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    8
D.  Public Expenditure on Primary Education in Balochistan   . . .           9
E.  Sectoral Lending Strategy and Role of IDA . . . . . . . . . . .   10
F.  Experience with Past Lending and Sector Work  . . . . . . . . .   11
II.   THE   PROGRAM  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  14
A. Program Objectives .14
B. Proglim Strategy .15
C. Program Description .17
Improving Access, Equity and Efficiency . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Improving the Learning Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Improving Organizational Framework, Planning and Management .   23
Beneficiary Participation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
D.  Program Management and Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Organization and Management .27
Monitoring and Eva]Lkation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
E. Program Costs and Financing .31
III. IDA FINANCING    ..34
A.  IDA Financing ny Component and Categories of Expenditure  . . .   34
B. Financing Arrangements    ..37
C.  Procurement ArrangpmeiL..   . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .         .    38
D. Disbursements . . .                           .40
E. Accounts and Audits . . .                                               41
F. Status of Preparation    ..42
G. Environmental Impact    ..42
IV. PROGRAM BENEFITS AND RISKS .43
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
or their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex 1              Primary Education in Balochistan: Summary Information  .  46
Annex 2              Schools Providing the Primary Cycl,e . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Annex 3  Table 1  Internal Efficiency of Primary Schools  . . . . . . . . . 48
Annex 3  Table 2  Utilization of Classrooms ...  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 49
Annex 3  Table 3  Provision of Basic Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Annex 3  Table 4  Primary Teachers in Balochistan . . . . . . . . . . ... . 51
Annex 4             Balochistan Education Management Information System (BEMIS52
Annex 5  Table 1  Public Expenditure on Education, 1982-83 and 1992-93    . . 56
Annex 5  Table 2  A comparison of Provincial Spending on Primary Education  57
Annex 5  Table 3  Primary Education Recurrent Spending to Recurrent Spending57
Annex 5  Table 4  Recurrent Expenditure on Primary Education
Balochistan (1992-93 Budget)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Annex 6              Enrollments Using Existing and New Facilities . . . . . . 59
Annex 7  Table 1  Construction Targets and Number of Posts Required . . . . 60
Annex 7  Table 2  Classroom Construction During Program Period  . . . . . . 61
Annex 7  Table 3  Number of Sanctioned Teacher Posts Needed Annually  . . . 61
Annex 7  Table 4  Proposed Financing of Incremental Post  . . . . . . . . . 61
Annex 7  Table 5  Detailed Costs  .......  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..                       . 62
Annex 8              School Selection Criteria ....  ..  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 65
Annex 9              Private Education Foundation and Scholarship Experiment . 68
Annex 10             Balochistan Education Materials Development . . . . . . . 71
Annex 11             Job Description of Key Staff in DPE . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Annex 12             Beneficiary Participation in School Establishment . . . . 85
Annex 13 Table 1  Planning Checklist for Program Implementation . . . . . . 88
Annex 13 Table 2 Key Indicators. .                                                      92
Annex 14             Consultancies .    .                                               94
Annex 15    Procurement Plan .95
Annex 16             Supervision Plan                                                   96
Annex 17             List of Documents Consulted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Chart 1             The Learning Environment .                                         100
Chart 2              Program Administration System . . . . . . . . . . . . .  101
MAPS                 School Availability per '000 Population (Boys)  (IBRD
Reference No. 24498)
Scnool Availability per '000 Population (Girls) (IBRD
Referenue No. 24499)
Balochistan Primary Education Program (IBRD Reference
No.24497)
This report is based on the findings of an appraisaL mission which visited Pakistan in
September 1992. It comprised Me. Mae Chu etAN (Mission Leader and Task Manager); Messrs. Efraim Jimenez
(Procurement Specialist); Rene Corradine (Architect); Stephen Hoenack (Economist, ConsuLtant); Anthony Read
(Book Specialist, ConsuLtant); Alastair Rodd (Educator, ConsuLtant); and AmanuLLah Khan Malik (Disbursement
Specialist, RMP). In ddition, Bashir Parvez (Projects Advisor, RMP); Christopher Thomas (Educator,
ConsuLtant); and Sarah Tirmazi tUSAID Economist) contributed substantiatly during program preparation.
Processing was supervised by Messrs. Paut Isernan (Director, SA3) and Roberto Cuca (Chief, SA3PH). The Peer
Reviewers were Mmes/Messrs. JuLian Schweitzer (Chief, LATHR); Richard Cambridge (PrincipaL Economist,
SA2PH); and Marlaine Lockheed (PrincipaL Education SocioLogist, PHREE).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Beneficiaries:    Province of Balochistan
Amount:            SDR 76.4 million (US$106.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard, with 35 years maturity
Program Description:
IDA would provide financing over five years to help implement the
long-term Balochistan government primary education program, with
special measures to improve girls, education. The objectives are
to: (a) improve access, equity and efficiency; (b) improve
quality of the learning environment; and (c) improve the
organizational framework, planning and management. Beneficiary
participation would be instituted as a means to achieve all of the
above objectives.
Access. eauitv and efficiency would be increased by: (a)
establishing new girls' schools which boys are allowed to attend;
(b) providing classrooms and facilities to mixed shelterless
schools; and (d) introducing a scholarship program for girls in
urban slum areas to attend privately-run schools. A new policy
would be introduced to permit double-shifts where needs arise.
Oualitv of the learning environment would be improved by: (a)
establishing an appropriate pre-service and in-service teacher
training system geared to the multi-grade school conditions in
Balochistan; (b) developing core student-activity books and other
instructional materials, suitable for multi-grade teaching and
learning. An instructional support system using learning
coordinators would be institutionalized.
organizational framework. DlanninQ and management would be
improved by: (a) establishing a Directorate of Primary Education
separate from the secondary school administration at provincial
and district levels; (b) establishing a policy monitoring and
evaluation unit within the Directorate of Primary Education; and
(c) continuing the development of the management information
system to facilitate planning and management.
To achieve the above objectives, beneficiary participation would
be instituted by setting up parents' committees, and involving
these committees in school establishment and supervision. The
program would finance construction, furniture, equipment and
educational materials, specialist services, fellowships, training,



ii
incremental recurrent cost for additional staff, and operation and
maintenance.
Benefits:   The five-year program is expected to increase primary enrollment
by about 380,000, nearly double the participation rate for girls
from 15% to 29%, and improve the rate for boys from 49% to 72%.
Worldwide research has shown that primary education has very high
social returns and that education of girls, in particular, will
also lead to reduced fertility -- which is particularly important
in light of Pakistan's high population growth rate of 3.2%.
Through recruitment and training of local women as teachers, the
economic returns of education for girls will become more apparent
to rural parents, who would be encouraged to send their girls to
school. Information-based decision making in education management
and involvement of parents in school establishment process will
lead to increased participation rates and enhanced resource
mobilization through parents donating services. Increasing the
number of hours of active learning by pupils in class as a result
of developing a pupil-centered approach will improve performance,
and thus students' and teachers' levels of satisfaction with
schooling. This in turn should reduce drop-out and repetition
rates and increase the efficiency and decrease costs of primary
education.
Risks:      The major risk is that the Government implementation agencies lack
capacity to implement the program. This risk is being addressed
by a one-year overlap in the resident technical assistance team
between the USAID Primary Education Development Program and IDA
support, and the Government's agreement to contract similar
technical assistance during the five-year program. Another risk
is the lack of female teachers to staff the girls' schools. This
risk is addressed by a community survey of all 9,000 villages in
the province to identify educated girls who are willing to be
teachers, then to recruit and train them through a Mobile Teacher
Training Program. Continued professional and materials support
are provided to these teachers through the Learning Coordinators
System. Risks also attach to the development of community
involvement. In the past, beneficiaries have not been involved in
community decisions about schooling, which were taken by a few
traditional community leaders who tended to oppose girls,
education. The program would be hindered if they do not
relinquish control. This risk is being addressed by establishing
school committees which would consist only of parents of children
in the school service areas, regardless of their status in the
community. The school committees would be involved in determining
school sites and monitoring quality. A pilot experiment conducted
during program preparation confirmed the viability of beneficiary
participation.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM (FY94-FY98)
US$ million
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                  106
GOB Counterpart                               14
Ongoing commitments:
Government of Balochistan                    206
other donors 1/                                4
Balochistan Primary Education Program              330
1/ Includes ADB, USAID, UNICEF, CIDA and the Netherlands.
IDA FINANCING
US$ Million
Local a/  Foreign   Total
Estimated Cost
Improving access, equity and efficiency           57.0       7.8     64.8
Improving learning environment                     8.3       7.8     16.1
Improving organizational framework                 7.6       9.0     16.6
Beneficiary participation                          0.2       0.4      0.6
Total Base Costs                                  73.1      25.0     98.1
Physical Contingencies                             6.9       2.4      9.3
Price Contingencies                                4.9       7.7     12.6
Total Costs                                       84.9      35.1    120.0
a/ Including estimated duties and taxes:             $9.0 million
Estimated Annual Disbursements
IDA FY                         1994     1995      1996    1997      1998    1999
Annual                         10.1     19.6      21.8    22.9      21.6    10.0
Cumulative                     10.1     29.7      51.5    74.4      96.0   106.0
As % of Total                  16%      35%       56%      79%      96%    100%






ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
BALOCMISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
I. SECTORAL BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. Introduction
1.    Despite substantial economic growth, human resource development in
Pakistan has lagged well behind other countries at similar stages of
development and income levels. Pakistan's gross participation rate of 50%1
in primary education compares poorly with developing countries of similar or
lower GNP per capita. (For example, Nepal at 64%, Laos 111%, Bangladesh 70%,
India 98%, China 135%, Nigeria 70%).   World Bank Country Economic Memoranda,
as well as the Government's Social Action Program and a series of Five-Year
Plans since 1955, have identified the low level of human resources development
as a major constraint to a qualitative transformation of the Pakistani economy
into a dynamic, middle-income country like its East Asian neighbors. Compared
to the nation, the province of Balochistan has the lowest gross participation
rate in primary education at 34%. The female participation rate of 15% is
among the worst in the world. As a result of the low rate of participation in
primary education, the base of primary graduates is not sufficient to support
any kind of significant expansion at higher levels of education.
B. System Characteristics
2.    With an average density of about 16 persons per square kilometer,
Balochistan encompasses almost half of the land mass of Pakistan but contains
only about five percent of the country's 120 million people. The majority
(84%) of inhabitants reside in rural areas, in approximately 9,000
settlements. 91% of the schools are outside the urban areas, with the
majority (67%) in semi-urban and the rest in rural and far-flung areas.2
3.    About 7,500 schools offer the primary cycle, including about 250 private
schools. Four types of schools operate in the Province: Mosque schools
provide the first four years of the primary cycle (Grades K-3); Primary
schools provide the entire primary cycle (Grades K-5); Middle schools provide
both primary and middle (Grades 6-8) cycles; and high schools provide primary,
middle and secondary (Grades 9-10) cycles. The primary cycle is therefore
1/ Total number of primary school students (K-5) divided by population aged
4-9. This ratio may still be an overestimate because of over-age students in
primary schools.
2/ A settlement containing 5,000 or more population is defined as an urban
area. A semi-urban area is defined as a settlement within an hour's motor
drive of an urban area. A rural area is defined as a settlement more than an
hour's drive away from an urban area, but still accessible by road. A far-
flung area is defined as a region more than an hour's drive away from an urban
area and difficult to access by road.



2
provided by primary, middle, and high schools, and partially provided by
mosque schools as well.
4.    The primary cycle comprises six grades: from the unrecognized and
un-resourced Kachi (kindergarten), through Class 5. Students normally enter
Kachi class at age 4, although many enter later. Students in Kachi class
range in age from 4 to about 11. There is an equally large range in the age
of students ir. each subsequent grade. In general, it is common to find
primary schools with students ranging in age from 4 to 12, althcugh some
primary grades have students up to 16 years old (Annex 1).
5.    Primary sections of middle and high schools which are urban based tend
to have much larger enrollments and better facilities than primary and mosque
schools. Despite their small numbers, middle and high schools account for 53%
of girls' enrollment and 28W of boys' enrollment at the primary level. The
majority of the schools in the Province are single-teacher, multi-grade
primary and mosque schools with low total enrollments. Annex 2 summarizes
these differences.
6.    Private provision of education.  About 28,000 or 7% of all primary
students are enrolled in 250 schools which are privately financed and managed.
These numbers do not include an unknown, but probably significant, number of
unregistered private schools at the primary level. The registered private
schools, representing about 3.3% of the total number of schools in the
Province, are far more efficient than provincial government schools. The
private schools have an average school size of about 110, and 31% of them have
a mixed student population. These schools are actively catering to the
demands of high- and middle-income groups. Substantial willingness to pay for
quality education is evidenced in these income categories and overall market
demand for good quality schools is high.3 There also exists a limited number
of low-cost private schools, sometimes operating out of people's homes,
catering to lower-income groups. The major constraints to expansion of these
low-cost private schools seems to be the amount that parents can pay. Based
on an informal survey, it appears that a large number of new schools could be
opened in urban slums and medium-sized towns if a significant portion of their
operating costs were covered by a combination of the tuition charges and per-
student subsidies from the Government.
C. Sectoral Issues
7.    Issues facing primary education in Balochistan are not different from
the rest of Pakistan, only magnified several times and compounded by difficult
geographical conditions: lack of access, equity and efficiency; inadequate
learning environment; and inadequate organization, planning and management.
3/ This is evidenced by reports from high-cost private school managers who
indicated that the number of applicants exceeded the number of available
student places by a factor of 5 to 1.



3
I. Access, Equity and Efficiency
8.    Insufficient availability is evidenced by the lack of a school of any
kind in approximately 3800 villages. In non-urban areas, where over 80% of
the population resides, the average school size in the 6,800 existing schools
is 41 students. Even if the average school size were doubled through measures
to improve access and retention, the number of non-urban schools would still
need to be more than doubled over current levels in order to reach the entire
4-9 population.
9.    Inefficient utilization of existing facilities is indicated by the fact
that over 2000 schools have 20 or fewer students and over 4000 schools have
less than 40 students. Most of these schools could enroll more students since
population estimates suggest that less than 5% of the settlements have fewer
than 50 primary school-aged children.
10.   Ineauitv is evidenced by there being 10 times as many boys' schools as
girls' schools in primary education. In addition, there is tremendous
regional variation in school availability, particularly for girls' schools.
While 3814 villages have no schools of any kind, 625 girls' schools
concentrate unevenly among 345 villages, and 6574 boys' schools among 5405
villages. The provincial capital of Quetta, for example, has 23% of all
girls' schools in the Province, but contains only 9% of the population
(498,000). By contrast Turbat, a district of comparable population (495,000),
contains only 5% of all girls' schools in the Province. There is variation
across districts in the availability of boys' schools also, although the
magnitude is not as great. The availability of schools by district is shown
in the attached Maps.
11.   Inequity as well as inefficiency could be alleviated by having girls and
boys within the same village attend the same school, instead of separate
girls' and boys' schools. The requirement for segregated schools administered
by a segregated administration makes this difficult. A typical village in
Balochistan requires only one school to accommodate the number of primary
school age children of both sexes. Once a boys' school is opened, numbers of
children are too small to justify a second school in the same village for
girls. Girls thus do not hive access to school unless their parents are
willing to send them unofficially to a boys, School. In fact, as many as a
third of the girls in primary education are attending boys' schools,
4
unofficially.  A recent survey and interviews with parents demonstrated
acceptance of mixed schooling for primary school children and high demand for
girls' education, especially if the teacher is female. Establishing mixed
schools under the female adrministration is therefore currently an optimal
solution to the problem of access, equity as well as efficiency. This can be
achieved without a mixed administration which is not culturally acceptable in
some places.
4/ The Human Resources  irvey funded by USAID's Primary Education Development
Program (USAID PED) is : ommunity survey of nearly all 9,000 villages in
Balochistan.  USAID PED  s a ten-year sectoral program in primary education
which will be phased out !y 1994 due to withdrawal of USAID from Pakistan.



4
12.   A major constraint to this solution is the limited number of educated
women in the Province who could become teachers, which is a direct result of
lack of girls, schools in the first place. Cultural barriers prevent urban
women from relocating to rural areas, and rural women from attending
residential teacher training colleges located in town centers. A UNICEF-
funded training program is presently being piloted in Balochistan to bring
mobile teacher training teams to the villages which have indicated
availability of women with at least an 8th grade education who are willing to
be teachers.
13.   Internal efficiency indicators are presented in Annex 3, Table 1.
Within the normal time period of six years, only 9% of students entering Kachi
class complete grade 5. Average repetition rates are 28% and 12% for Kachi
(Kindergarten) and first grade respectively, 11 for grades 2 to 3, and 6% for
grade 5. While repetition rates are similar for girls and boys, dropout rates
are consistently higher for girls. The lack of latrines in schools is one
cause of higher dropout rates for girls due to cultural requirements for
modesty in girls. The overall high rates of wastage are symptomatic of a poor
learning environment. Schools are often without any shelter or even a single
teacher, and without appropriate instructional materials. The bulk of
dropouts among both girls and boys occurs during Kachi class when over 25% of
the entering cohort of students is lost during the first year of school. This
statistic reflects the historical neglect of Kachi students by curriculum
development, instructional materials development, and teacher training
initiatives.
II. Learning Environment
14.   Schools in Balochistan can be characterized as lacking all kinds of
essential resources: physical facilities, teachers and instructional
materials.
Physical Facilities
15.   Existing physical facilities in Balochistan's schools are inadequate in
terms of the availability of classrooms for individual grades (and space is
often wasted by storing broken furniture). only 4* of all schools have one
classroom per grade. Annex 3, Table 2 provides a categorization of schools in
terms of classroom utilization. Data suggests that 21% schools have under- or
unutilized classrooms due to the lack of teachers, while at the same time, 43%
of the schools have shelterless classes. In addition, 700 schools or 10% of
the total are completely shelterless and have no building of any kind.
16.   The provision of necessary facilities such as toilets, water, and
electricity is severely inadequate. As Annex 3, Table 3 shows, only a small
proportion of primary schools in the Province have toilets (6%), water (18%),
electricity (11), or storage space (3%), although middle and high schools are
better equipped. Inadequate storage space severely constrains the likelihood
that teachers will use additional instructional materials of any kind: books,
charts, teaching kits, etc. As Annex 3, Table 3 shows, most primary schools
do not even have a single cupboard per grade.



5
17.   Repair, upgrading, and routine maintenance of school buildings and
facilities are constrained by the lack of budgetary allocation and by the fact
that only 50% of all provincial government schools (about 3,600 schools)
operate in Government-owned premises. 2,800 schools operate in privately
owned buildings over which the government has no control over repair,
maintenance or expansion. However, the practice of renting private buildings
will be continued under the Balochistan Primary Education Program since it is
still a cost-effective means of providing more student places in a short
period, particularly in light of constrained capacity to manage school
construction.
Teachers
18.   Approximately 2,300 women and 13,300 men work as primary school teachers
in schools administered by the provincial government. The minimum
qualification required for primary school teaching is a 10th Grade
Matriculation certificate. No pre-service training is available or required.
In exceptional circumstances, women who have completed Grade 8 are appointed
as primary teachers in localities where more highly qualified women are not
available. Currently 72% of all primary school teachers are Matriculation
graduates, 22% have higher academic qualifications, and 6% have less than
Matriculation qualifications. Between two and five years after initial
appointment, the teachers attend a nine-month on-service teacher training
program leading to the Primary Teaching Certificate (PTC). Upon completion of
PTC training, teachers move into the district teaching cadre at Basic Pay
Scale (BPS) 7 and become eligible for annual salary increments, allowances,
and accrual of seniority within the cadre. There is no promotion ladder for
primary teachers, except that a small number of teachers have moved into BPS
11 on being appointed as Learning Coordinators.
19.   Currently only about 50% of all primary teachers in the Province are
trained, leaving a backlog of about 8,000 primary school teachers with no
training of any kind (Annex 3, Table 4). Even trained primary teachers have
little idea of how to cope with the multi-lingual, multi-age, multi-grade
teaching situations encountered in 97% of the schools. PTC training is geared
towards the ideal situation of each teacher teaching a single grade of 40
students. Because teachers lack classroom management skills in multi-grade
schools, most often the lower grades are ignored or put under the charge of an
older student. Lack of teacher attention may be another factor contributing
to high levels of dropout during the initial years of primary schooling.
20.   With support from the United States Agency for International
Development's Primary Education Development Program (USAID PED), the province
has recently initiated an accelerated three-month "on-service" teacher
training program designed to provide PTC-equivalent training to all untrained
teachers within a period of two years. By 1994, having brought all primary
5/ The term "on-service training" is used for untrained teachers who are
already on the job and require training to obtain a certificate. This term
should be distinguished from "in-service" training which is provided for
trained teachers to upgrade their teaching skills.



6
teachers up to this minimum level of training, the Province plans to switch
over to pre-service training.
Instructional Materials
21.   It is estimated that most children in single teacher, multi-grade
schools are not involved in active learning for more than an hour a day, even
when the teacher is present. Appropriate student-centered materials can make
up for deficiencies in teachers' subject content knowledge and lack of
pedagogical training.
22.   Until 1992, the official language of instruction in government primary
schools was Urdu, Pashto, Brahvi, or Balochi, depending upon the district.
The Government of Balochistan (GOB) provided free textbooks to each rural
school in the official language of the district at 1.6 times the cost of
producing textbooks in one language only. This policy was decided without a
technical assessment with the result that these textbooks were not used at all
as teachers could not read the local languages and students do not necessarily
speak the same language in which textbooks were available. As a result of a
technical analysis taking into account parental opposition to non-Urdu
textbooks,   international experience in teaching reading in a second
language, and the lack of any capacity to provide proper bilingual education,
the Balochistan Provincial Assembly has just amended the official language
policy to make Urdu the official language of the textbooks.
23.   Current official textbooks have poor physical specifications (leading to
short book life) and poor physical appearance. They are short on content and
are not written specifically for multi-age, multi-grade teaching situations.
Textbooks are typically produced without pre-testing or consistent, classroom-
based evaluation and revision. There are no teachers' books to accompany
students' books, although support materials for Kachi class are currently
being financed, developed, and supplied to pilot districts by the USAID PED.
24.   Additional materials other than textbooks, such as supplementary
readers, teaching kits and learning modules, are not used even when provided
free. Main reasons are: inadequate training for teachers in the use of these
materials, fear of losing or breaking an item, and the lack of incentives for
using them.
III. Organization, Planning and Management
Organization and Management of Primary Education
25.   Historically, all primary, middle and secondary schools have been
managed by a single Provincial Directorate of Schools under the Department of
Education. Within the Directorate, neither budget nor personnel are earmarked
specifically for primary education. This lack of an organizational focus on
primary education is further repeatel at division and district level. The
lack of attention to primary education is evident in the severe lack of
facilities and materials in primary schools as compared to middle and high
schools. Even within the same school, primary grades with majority of the



7
student population are displaced into the school yard while middle and higher
grades occupy the few available classrooms.
26.   In July 1992, GOB agreed to "bifurcate" the existing Directorate of
Schools by level, and to establish two separate Directorates for primary (K-5)
and secondary (6-10) education. The bifurcation was officially sanctioned in
December 1992 before negotiations (para. 87). Under this arrangement, the
management of primary education became the responsibility of personnel from
the Directorate of Primary Education located at both provincial and district
levels. Plans are currently being developed to establish the necessary staff
positions, write job descriptions, and design appropriate training procedures
for newly appointed personnel.
27.    The existing promotion ladder does not reward primary teaching: all
administrators, including those for primary schools, must have background in
secondary teaching. Supervision is therefore hampered by the lack of skills
and competencies on the part of supervisors for academic support and
supervision of primary teachers. School supervision is for the most part
reduced to the periodic checking on numbers of students and teachers,
availability of furniture and equipment, and teacher absenteeism on the days
of school visits which are infrequent. The Learning Coordinators, hired under
the Second Primary Education Project (PEP II) in about one-third of the
province, have been instituted to provide on-the-job instructional support as
well as some promotion prospects for primary teachers.
28.   Within the Department of Education, the administrative structure is
segregated by gender from divisional level downward. Male District Education
Officers are responsible for management and supervision of all boys' schools
within their respective districts. Because of the small number of girls'
schools, female divisional education officers perform the same tasks for
girls' schools covering three to five districts within a division. Female
administrators are therefore doubly constrained: first, by the vast
geographical territory falling under their jurisdiction; and second, by their
having to rely (for cultural reasons) on the availability of official
transport rather than public transport.
29.   There are separate service rules for men and women.  Most of the senior
staff management positions above the divisional level are not included in the
Service Rules (Women's Section), therefore preventing women from being
appointed to these positions. In some cases, promotion to certain positions
unnecessarily required prior posting in male-only positions6 (one recent
example is the position of a computer operator which required prior posting as
a clerk, a post reserved exclusively for men due to the necessity of
travelling to the banks.)
6/ Certain positions are reserved for men due to cultural reasons (e.g.
requiring travel to and conducting business in public places).



8
Educational Policy and Planning
30.   Educational policy in Balochistan, as elsewhere in Pakistan, has been
largely driven by federal mandates which neither take account of the
particular demographic, geographic and cultural conditions of the province nor
are backed up by adequate evaluation, experimentation, or resources. Marked
variations among district and poor educational indicators testify to the
absence of policies tailored to local needs.
31.   The historical non-availability of timely and accurate data about the
educational system results in the lack of real planning. Policy decisions
have traditionally been guided primarily by precedent and political pressures.
Prior to 1990, planning activities for Balochistan's school system were the
responsibility of the Planning Cell within the Provincial Directorate of
Schools. Basic information about the school system, collected and compiled
manually by personnel from the Directorate of Schools, was inaccurate ana took
two years to compile. Data collection was based on predefined formats which
did not recognize the reality of mixed schools, hence girls enrolled in boys'
schools - currently amounting to about one third of total female enrollment -
were simply not counted, or were counted as boys.
32.   Since 1990, a computerized Balochistan Educational Management
Information System (BEMIS) was established to introduce data-based and demand-
driven planning and management systems (Annex 4). One example is the
selection of sites for new or additional construction, which is now guided by
the production of lists of school sites meeting specific enrollment-related
criteria. Similar procedures are being designed to guide the selection of
schools requiring new teaching positions.
IV. Beneficiary Participation
33.   The Government has not yet been able to fully utilize an existing system
of community support which is historically rooted in the extended family
system, which still dominates today's life. Several support agencies are
currently working in Balochistan to establish community groups to improve
health, water, income generation, and education. These include BRSP/Germany,
SPO/CIDA, PED/AID, and the Dutch-Pakistani Organization. UNICEF acts as an
umbrella organization by building capacity and facilitating coordination of
these and other NGOs in Balochistan. The community groups established by
these organizations form a potentially strong basis for launching beneficiary
participation activities in education.
34.   During program preparation, a small pilot experiment was launched to
test responsiveness ane methodologies for beneficiary participation in
education. The experiment was successful in mobilizing parents' committees to
conduct self-assessments for the establishment of schools, identify local
female teachers, arrange transr rt, provide land for schools, increase girls'
attendance, and improve teacher attend'.ice and motivation. The results of the
pilot experiment generated enthusiastic support from District Education
Officers, and considerable interest am-ag other communities in the area.
While the initial results of the pilot experiment were very encouraging,



9
extension workers pointed out that long-term support is necessary to solidify
the role of the parents' committees.
D. Public Expenditure on Primary Education in Balochistan
35.   Pakistan spends less than 3% of the GDP on education, compared with an
average of more than 4% in other South Asian countries, and 5% for developing
countries as a whole. Similarly in Balochistan, the education sector was
neglected up to the 1980s, as shown by the low levels of spendirg on education
(Annex 5: Table 1). However, between FY84 and FY92, the education budget grew
12% annually in real terms, outpacing the growth of total provincial public
expenditures (11%). When compared to other provinces, however, Balochistan's
expenditures on education are still less than that of NWFP and Punjab.
36.   Primary education snendinq.  Most of the growth in education has been in
primary education, which has increased at a compound rate of 17% annually in
real terms for the past eight years. Primary education as a percent of the
total education spending increased from about 33% in FY86 to over 50% in FY91.
Over the same period, the two most populous provinces, Punjab and Sindh, have
consistently dedicated about 50* of total education spending to primary
education (Annex 5: Table 2).
37.   Development spendinQ.  Between FY84 and FY92, development spending in
primary education grew at a compound rate of 17% annually in real terms, at
the expense of other levels of education. This was particularly pronounced in
the first four years of the Seventh Plan period (FY89-92), when primary
education benefitted from a 32% annual compound growth rate in real terms,
while secondary and other sectors actually declined at similar rates (Annex 5:
Table 1).
38.   Recurrent spendinQ.  While development expenditures in the total
education budget grew at an annual compound rate of 6% in real terms between
FY84 and FY92, recurrent expenditure grew at 13%, most of which was devoted to
primary education (54% of the recurrent education budget). Recurrent
expenditures on primary education as a ratio of recurrent expenditure in other
sectors over the period 1985-91 is shown in Annex 5, Table 3. Between 1985-86
and 1990-91, recurrent expenditures on primary education grew in real terms at
a compound rate of 25%, compared with 13% for all educational expenditures,
and 6% for total provincial expenditures combined. As a consequence,
expenditures on the education sector increased to 20% of the total provincial
recurrent budget.
39.   While the GOB gave increased priority to primary education, it continued
to spend a large proportion of unit costs on salaries and allowances,
neglecting non-salary items that have significant impact on student
achievement, such as textbooks and other educational materials. As Annex 5,
Table 4 shows, 96.5% of the 1992-93 recurrent budget was spent on salaries and
allowances, while only 1.3% was spent on furniture and school supplies and



10
0.3% was spent on textbooks and publications'. The high level of unit costs
shown in this table is due in part to the under- utilization of primary
schools in rural areas, where the student:teacher ratio is extremely low.
E. Sectoral Lending Strategy and Role of IDA
40.   IDA strateqv.  IDA's lending strategy to Pakistan in education for the
past 20 years has shifted from an emphasis on higher and technical education
to primary education; and from provision of isolated project inputs scattered
throughout the country to province-based sectoral programs. This shift in
strategy can be seen in four phases: (1) meeting manpower needs through
vocational and higher education projects was the focus of the early 70s.
These projects provided small amounts of inputs to a limited number of project
institutions scattered throughout the country; (2) realizing that primary
education has the highest rate of social return, IDA supported two
experimental primary education projects in the late 70s in a limited number of
districts in all provinces. The impact was limited to the projects' duration
and the project areas; (3) province-based primary education projects began
with the FY85 Third Primary Education Project, which devoted substantial
resources to one province to bring about institutional change; and (4) a
province-based sectoral program strategy was adopted in FY90 through the Sindh
Primary Education Development Program, which emphasized institution building
as well policy reforms. Building on successful experiences with provincial
operations, IDA strategy is moving towards complete coverage of a sub-sector
in one province at a time, integrating inputs from other donors and the
Government to ensure coherence of the program and improved implementation.
Furthermore, beneficiary participation leading to long-term sustainability is
emphasized. This strategy forms the basis for IDA support to the Government's
Social Action Program (para 42, 43) in the education sector.
41.   Government strateQy.  The Government of Pakistan's Five-Year Plans since
1955 have placed universal primary education as a priority. However, this
policy is far from being met as it has not been backed up by adequate
financial and political commitment, nor was the institutional framework
adequate to implement it. Since the mid-80s, the Government attracted
substantial resources to primary education from donors. Major programs of
quality improvement and expansion in primary education, with emphasis on
girls, are being financed by IDA and other donors in Punjab and Sindh. USAID
has been providing budgetary support for primary education sector development
programs in NWFP and Balochistan. ADB, UNICEF, ODA, NORAD, Netherlands, and
KfW are also supporting improvements in quality or coverage in primary
education. However, all donor-supported operations have been experiencing
implementation problems and disbursement lags.
7/    This under-represents the amount spent on textbooks.  These percentages
are derived from recurrent budget estimates; however, under the Balochistan
Government's budgeting system, some financing for textbooks is considered a
development cost which still amounts to only 31 rupees per student, and would
not be included under recurrent.



II
42.   In 1991, the Government of Pakistan, recognizing that its social
indicators are among the worst in the world, began drafting a Social Action
Program (SAP) with the purpose of greatly improving the provision of basic
services in education, family planning, health, and water and sanitation. The
SAP is a framework for action to improve the planning, programming, budgeting
and implementation of all ongoing and new programs and projects in the social
sectors. The SAP represents a renewed commitment by both the Government and
the donors in partnership to focus attention and resources on removing the
critical political, policy, institutional and financial constraints to
improving effectiveness of social services. It is intended to remove endemic
and systemic constraints in implementation of ongoing and planned social
sector programs and projects and expand the absorptive capacity of the
Government.
43.   Rationale for IDA assistance.  IDA has a policy of promoting universal
primary education worldwide and has substantial accumulated experience in this
sector. Through its continued policy dialogue with Pakistan emphasizing the
need for enhanced social services delivery, the Government of Pakistan has
requested IDA support for its Social Action Program. To assist in this
effort, donors including the Bank, have established a Multi-Donor Support Unit
in the Resident Mission in Pakistan to provide technical assistance to the
Government of Pakistan and provincial governments to prepare the SAP and
assist with implementation of ongoing and planned programs. To further the
goal of the SAP in education, IDA is committed to a pipeline of provincial
education development programs based on the absorptive capacity of the
respective provinces.
44.   The proposed Balochistan Primary Education Program (BPEP) constitutes
the education component of the SAP in the province of Balochistan. IDA
financing of BPEP would dove-tail with the phasing-out of the USAID PED and
completion of PEP II; BPEP fully integrates the inputs of all the other
donors active in the province (USAID, ADB, UNICEF, Netherlands, CIDA, PAK-
German) into a coherent program that covers the entire primary education
sector. As a result of close cooperation between IDA and USAID, the current
USAID PED has tested or implemented on a pilot basis new ideas which emerged
during the program preparation phase, for example, the beneficiary
participation experiment. Furthermore, most of the start-up activities for
the BPEP have also begun under PED to avert implementation delays. Key policy
reforms introduced in the BPEP will be reinforced by conditionalities included
in a Public Sector Adjustment Loan (PSAL) under preparation and a possible
Social Action Program Project, which would address cross-sectoral issues.
F. Experience with Past Lending and Sector Work
45.   Findings from Bank research in primary education and a series of sector
reports in education in Pakistan contributed to the design of program
components. Lessons-from past projects and programs, funded by IDA as well as
other donors, have been derefully incorporated into the preparation and design
of the present program. These lessons are outlined below:
46.   One Drovince Drolect.  Past projects involving a Federal Coordinating
Unit and more than one province, such as PEP II, have resulted in serious



12
implementation delays because: (a) the province is legislatively and
financially responsible for primary and secondary education, and therefore,
the federal unit only introduced bureaucratic hurdles to implementation; (b)
uniform solutions cannot be applied across provinces as wide variations exist
among them, e.g. there is a shortage of teachers in Balochistan while in
Punjab there is an oversupply; and (c) the different absorptive capacities of
the provinces meant that a project could not proceed at an even pace. In PEP
II, a one-year lag was observed between provinces. The SAP, including the
BPEP, are provincial-based programs.
47.   Technical assistance.  Long-term resident technical assistance has been
crucial to the success of the USAID PED. On the other hand, TA funds for
short-term consultants provided under PEP II remain largely unutilized. This
is because the PEP II did not have long-term resident TA consultants under
grant support from bilateral donors to help in the identification,
recruitment, management and orientation of the short-term consultants. The
impact of short-term consultants has been minimal since much of their time was
spent in orientation and understanding the problems. In Sindh PEDP, the ODA
components which have a resident TA consultant, advanced at a much faster pace
than the rest of the program which was without such input. The proposed
program will benefit from a one-year overlap between the phasing out of the
USAID TA team and the start of the proposed program. Furthermore, GOB has
agreed to maintain an adequate level of technical assistance under the new
program and has already begun the procurement process for technical assistance
services according to IDA Guidelines. One major task of the technical
advisors is to train and transfer technology and responsibilities to local
staff and consultants over time.
48.   Annual Reviews.  Annual reviews have become a tool for successful
planning under the USAID PED. The annual review sets realistic targets for
the following year based on implementation records of the past year. In other
projects, rigid adherence to PC-1 targets decided upon at project appraisal
have become a major constraint to implementation. The PC-1 targets are often
outdated and do not reflect the changing realities or needs which may arise
over time. For example, although Annual Review is also incorporated in Sindh
PEDP, this has not yet become a useful planning tool since the provincial
administration, in the absence of technical assistance to its planning unit,
has not yet internalized the process. The Annual Review in Sindh PEDP has
tended to be a reiteration of the PC-1 targets.
49.   Program Manaaement.  Experience under several projects has shown that
project management structures established outside the normal administrative
hierarchy of Provincial Departments of Education fail to institutionalize
project gains into the regular system. The short-term benefits attained
through temporary structures by way of partial circumvention of normal
bureaucratic hurdles eventually turn into a long-term loss in terms of lasting
impact. The Project Implementation Units of the PEP II were phased out during
project preparation so that successful inputs from PEP II could be
incorporated into the regular system.  Institution building is a cornerstone
of the proposed program, including the separation of the Directorate of
Primary Education (DPE) from secondary school administration. The program
would be managed by the DPE along with all activities in primary education.



13
SO.   Donor Coordination.  The growing donors, interest in assisting the
primary education sub-sector, particularly in the area of educational
materials development, has produced a confusing multiplicity of parallel
materials with competing claims for recognition, besides creating
inefficiencies in the use of scarce resources. Furthermore, the limited
government absorptive capacity means that implementation of one project is
often at the expense of another unless well coordinated beforehand. Planned
donor coordination took place during program preparation by inviting the USAID
program manager to be part of all the missions beginning with identification.
Integration of donor inputs is built into program design, for example,
learning modules developed under PEP II are incorporated into the teacher
training programs under USAID PED and the UNICEF mobile teacher training
program is also carried out under PED. The sequencing and timing of various
donor inputs were also planned to ensure coherence of the program. With the
establishment of the Directorate of Primary Education, all activities in
primary education will be managed by the DPE, which includes a post of Deputy
Director of Policy, Planning and Development who is charged with the specific
function of donor coordination and integration of inputs.
51.   Learning Modules and Learning CoordinatorE.  Learning modules and
learning coordinators were introduced to Pakistan through an IDA-financed
First Primary Education Project in the early 80s. Evaluation showed that the
presence of Learning Coordinators greatly improved teacher attendance,
although they received insufficient training to provide academic support to
teachers. More than half of the Learning Modules were judged to be adequate
in content and pedagogy, but their effectiveness depends on whether the
teachers use them. The overall effectiveness of learning modules and learning
coordinators was severely hampered by the perception that these were donor-
funded experiments outside the regular system. Under BPEP, permanent posts of
Learning Coordinators would be provided in the regular system, and learning
modules would be incorporated into Teacher Guides as part of the total
learning system, for use in regular training of teachers and supervisors.
52.   ADDroval of School Sites.  One of the most intractable problems in
school construction is the selection and approval of sites. In nearly all
past projects, the injection of politics in this process tampered with the
agreed criteria for site selection as well as delayed the school construction
program by one to two years. In the BPEP, criteria for site selection were
agreed during pre-appraisal. The BEMIS system produced a list of school
locations based on agreed criteria and GOB selected from this list sites for
the first year construction before appraisal. GOB met the condition of
negotiations in submitting a list of approved sites for the first year's
construction program. In future years, the amount of construction to be
undertaken in the following year would be contingent upon approval of sites
according to agreed criteria by November of each year. During Annual Review
in April, necessary development and recurrent costs associated with
construction and subsequent school establishment including sanctioning of
teacher posts and provision of materials would be incorporated into GOB's
budget documents.






14
II. THE PROGRAM
A. Program Objectives
53.   The Balochistan Primary Education Program (BPEP), which is the first
phase of a long-term government program, has the objectives to: a) improve
access, equity and efficiency in primary education, particularly for girls; b)
improve the quality of the learning environment for all schools; and c)
improve the organizational framework, planning and management of the
provincial education system.
54.   The BPEP consists of all activities in primary education, including
improved operation of the current system as well a gradual expansion of the
system during the period of the Eighth Plan (FY94 to FY98). The degree of
system expansion is based on a detailed appraisal of the maximum capacity each
year, particularly in terms of two major constraining factors: numbers of
female teachers that could be recruited and trained8, and construction
management capacity9. This appraisal examined performance in past years, in
particular 1992, when combined donor financing from IDA's PEP II and USAID PED
tripled the actual development spending of the prior year. GOB's own
financing for recurrent and development combined has been increasing at an
average growth rate of 17% in real terms for the past eight years since FY84.
Special measures are built into the program to remove implementation
constraints and expand the absorptive capacity of the government agencies.
55. The BPEP includes both development and recurrent costs and financing by
the Balochistan Government, IDA, ADB, USAID, UNICEF, CIDA and the Netherlands.
The BPEP integrates all ongoing and planned activities under various donors
and the GOB in a coherent and synchronized manner.
56.   During the BPEP time frame of five years (FY94 to FY98), the program
expects to increase enrollment by about 380,000 students, including the
increase in enrollments through establishing new schools and from the
increased utilization of existing schools, a direct result of improved
learning environment for all existing schools. This would lead to a doubling
of the participation rate for girls, up from 15% at the beginning of the
program period to about 29% and an increase from 49% to 72% for boys (Annex
6). This assumes that population will continue to grow at 3.2%, a factor
8/ In the entire province, there are only about 2,500 girls outside of Quetta
with the minimum teacher qualification, i.e. at least a 10th grade
qualification.
9/ In the past years, the GOB has been constructing about 300-500 classrooms
per year. With the support of a private construction management firm and
increased funding from IDA and USAID in 1991-92, the GOB constructed about
1000 uncompleted classrooms. The target for 1993-94 had been reduced to about
800 classrooms to allow for completion of works already started. A gradual
increase in capacity is planned.



15
which greatly inhibits the participation rates from increasing at a faster
rate than the current projection.
B. Program Strategy
57.   The BPEP constitutes the primary education component of the Social
Action Program in Balochistan. Within the SAP framework, strategies outlined
below are adopted in the BPEP to meet the objectives of primary education in
Balochistan. Agreements were reached during Negotiations that the GOB will
provide an official letter setting forth the province's primary education
sector policy, strategy and priorities. The strategy includes:
Ak. Establishing girls' mixed schools to improve access, equity and
efficiency; and giving priority to mixed and shelterless schools in school
construction program.
B. Institutionalizing a site selection process based on demonstrated
needs as shown in School Census data or community beneficiary requests.
C. Increasing female teacher supply through (a) identification of all
educated women in the province willing to teach through the Human Resources
Survey, then recruitment and training of these women through mobile teacher
training teams and provision of continuous support to those appointed as
teachers through the Learning Coordinators network and school parents
committees; and (b) lowering the entry age and qualifications requirements for
rural female teachers, where necessary.
D. Introducing a learning system geared to the special multi-grade and
multi-lingual environment in Balochistan based on student-centered core texts
and supplementary materials. The system would be reinforced by regular supply
of such materials to all schools, and training of all teachers through annual
in-service workshops and continuous on-the-job training by Learning
Coordinators.
E. Institutionalizing a beneficiary participation process by according
top priority in school construction and teacher appointments to communities
that have met the minimum requirements for schools and established parents
committees. A certain number of teacher posts would be set aside at the
beginning of each year to meet the needs of the community requests, as they
arise.
F.  Encouraging private schools to provide student places to
disadvantaged population through a scholarship program targeted
to girls of low-income families.
G. Institutionalizing a needs-based and demand-driven system of
planning and management in the Directorate of Primary Education which would
include a strengthened Management Information System and a revised system of
performance review and job descriptions for all levels of administrators in
the system.



16
H. Restructuring the public expenditure program in primary education,
towards items needed to carry out the above strategy.
58.   GOB, with donors assistance, prepared a 5-year illustrative program
including a detailed calculation of the development and recurrent cost needs
of all existing, new and planned schools in the province including teacher and
materials costs, Operation and Management etc. All program components,
except for the girls scholarship experiment, are ongoing or have been piloted
during the past year, mainly under USAID PED funding. Demonstrated
performance in the past year and planned measures to improve capacity formed
the basis of the first year BPEP work program, which has been agreed upon.
Based on the five-year illustrative program, specific targets and costs for
the second and subsequent years would be detailed in Annual Operational Plans.
The draft Annual Operational Plan would be prepared by the Directorate of
Primary Education, cleared by the Steering Committee on primary education
(para. 99), and submitted to IDA by April 30 of each year. This Plan would be
agreed between the GOB and IDA during Annual Reviews (para. 104). All other
donors active in the province in the primary education sector would be invited
to participate in the Annual Reviews. The following principles would be
followed in the evaluation of the Annual Operational Plans:
A.   The Operational Plan should include all activities in primary
education, including all domestic and external funding sources. All program
components should be fully consistent and synchronized in a coherent manner
including sequencing and timing of and various activities.
B.   Performance targets for each component should be based on
demonstrated achievements in the past year and planned measures to improve
capacity.
C.   The Operational Plan should include a detailed calculation of
development and recurrent cost needs of all existing, new and planned schools,
taking into account that non-salary recurrent costs for instructional supplies
should be not less than Rs. 50 per student (para. 81).
59.   At Annual Reviews, provincial budgets documents (for both development
and recurrent) would be checked to ensure that the GOB has
fully allocated the required financing to carry out the agreed Annual
Operational Plan. Agreements were reached during Negotiations that the GOB
will (a) submit to IDA by April 30, a draft Annual Operational Plan for the
following fiscal year, (b) review annually with IDA, not later than June 15 in
each fiscal year, program implementation for the fiscal year and agree on the
Operational Plan for the following fiscal year, and (c) ensure that adequate
development and recurrent budgetary allocations will be made, both from
domestic and external sources, to carry out the agreed Operational Plan.



17
C. Program Description
I. Improving Access, Equity and Efficiency (Estimated Cost: US$111.8 million;
IDA financing: US$70.8)
60.    The main focus of this component is to improve access, equity and
efficiency in primary education by: a) provision of buildings, equipment and
facilities in existing and new schools, particularly those with a female
teacher and a mixed student population; b) encourage private sector provision
of student places through a per-student scholarship scheme targeted at low-
income girls.
School Buildinca, Eciuipment and Facilities.
61.      In five years, the total program would provide facilities for about
5200 classrooms, in both new and existing schools. IDA would finance about
63t of the classrooms, GOB contribution would be about 35% and ADB about 3%
(Annex 7, Tables 1&2). IDA support would include: (a) construction and
furnishing for about 720 new girls schools which boys may attend; (b)
construction for about 2,500 classrooms in 780 existing shelterless schools
with mixed student population (includes schools in rented facilities, schools
without any buildings, schools needing replacement and additional classrooms).
These new and rehabilitated schools will include multi-grade facilities, built
in accordance with one of the approved prototype primary school building
designs prepared for the program. Before negotiations, GOB prepared a
prototype drawing of a multi-grade school building, which was satisfactory to
IDA. All schools would be provided with: (a) appropriate furniture, (b) a
latrine block, and (c) storage for books and materials. The new girls'
schools would also receive a boundary wall. Maintenance would be budgeted at
6% of the capital costs annually.
62.    School heads do not have authority to dispose of broken furniture so
that this furniture takes up much of the classroom space, resulting in
students being displaced to the school yard for instruction. GOB will, by
December 31, 1993, formulate rules to permit heads of schools to dispose of
broken and damaged furniture.
63.   GOB has undertaken to base school location planning and building
decisions, regardless of funding sources, on needs and/or demonstrated demand,
as shown in the yearly school census conducted by BEMIS and/or community
requests (para. 96). IDA would disburse against schools built on sites
selected according to priority order shown in Annex 8. These criteria would,
in priority order, favor girls schools with a female teacher and community
participation, then mixed schools with a female teacher, mixed schools with
male teacher and finally male shelterless schools. During Annual Reviews,
these criteria would be reviewed jointly by GOB and IDA to determine if any
amendment is necessary, based on the latest School Census. Before
negotiations, GOB had formally approved the list of sites for the first year
of school construction, which met the -agreed priority criteria: at
negotiations it agreed to carry out the first year's construction at the
approved sites. For subsequent years, agreements were reached during
negotiations that the GOB would submit the list of school sites for IDA



18
financing according to agreed priority criteria no later than November 15 of
each year, beginning November, 1993.
64.   A policy measure will be introduced to allow for double shifts when
needs arise. Demonstration of needs may be determined by urban locations
where enrollment dictates the need for double shifts to increase student
places and in rural areas where -the community demands segregated schools such
that the same building would be used in different shifts for girls and boys.
Agreements were reached during Negotiations that the GOB will introduce double
shifts where needed.
Pilot Experiment on Girls Scholarships for Private Schools.
65.   This experiment has the objective of supporting the development of the
low-tuition charging private education sector in poor semi-urban areas, thus
expanding the number of children the Government can educate with a limited
capacity (Annex 9). Initially, the experiment would be targeted to a small
number of disadvantaged girls which will enable the currently minimal core of
educated women to be expanded.
66.   The experiment will provide monthly scholarships to a selected cohort
of girls living in Divisional or District headquarter towns. These
scholarships can only be used at private schools meeting eligibility criteria:
GOB will use criteria for the selection of students and schools which it has
established and which IDA has approved (Annex 9). The scholarships will be
paid by GOB directly to the schools based on the number of enrolled
scholarship students as verified by the District Education Officer. This
scholarship covers enrolment fees, tuition, books and educational materials.
Scholarship students must enroll in Kachi (kindergarten) or grade 1 and will
receive the scholarship for six years. The scholarship will not be paid for
repeated grades (Annex 9).
67.   Under the program, 600 girls will receive scholarships in the first
year and 600 in the second year. This could be expanded to 2,400 girls
annually by the end of the program, if the experiment is considered worthwhile
by Mid-Term Review. IDA would also finance program administration, and an
evaluation in the first and third years of the program.
68.   The program will initially be overseen by the Deputy Director
Administration (Schools) with support from a full-time local private education
advisor and one support staff. This administrative arrangement will be
maintained until such time as the program is incorporated into the operational
mechanism of a possible Balochistan Education Foundation.
69.   A possible Balochistan Education Foundation is under discussion to
provide developmental support and recurrent resources to disadvantaged private
education institutions. Although there is a draft legal document for the
formation of this Foundation, there has been little discussion concerning the
rules and regulations that would govern its operation, nor of mechanisms for
targeting assistance or review processes. Technical Assistance (12 staff
months) would be provided under IDA financing to assist in this effort.



19
II. Improving the Learning Environment (Estimated Cost: US$35.3 million; IDA
financing: US$17.6 million)
70.   Physical facilities, teachers, materials and community support are the
four major resources required to improve the total learning environment for
primary children in all Balochistan schools (Chart 1). The following
components focus on provision of quality teachers and materials resources for
all existing, new and planned schools, which are expected to reach about 9,000
by the end of the program period.
Teacher Resources
71.   Teacher quality and supply will be strengthened by: (a) on-service
trainingl through an accelerated teacher training program; (b) pre-service
training through the Government Colleges for Elementary Teachers (GCET) and
through a culturally-acceptable Mobile Teacher Training Program to rural
females; and (c) in-service training of trained teachers to upgrade skills in
multi-grade teaching and support for Learning Coordinators (LCs). The three
types of training would be offered in three different venues for various
target populations:
Type of training   GCET                 Field-Based          On-the-job
On-service (not    Existing             Existing
likely to be        untrained           untrained
needed after        teachers up to       teachers
1994)               1994
Pre-service         All new male and   Most new female
willing female      teachers; those
teachers from       who cannot attend
1994-95 onwards    GCETs.
In-service                              Annual workshops   Monthly visits
to all trained      by LCs to all
teachers, LCs,      teachers in
DEOs and SDEOs      their schools
72.   On-Service Training.  The program will provide continued support to the
"Accelerated Teacher Training Program" also called the PTAC or "Crash
10/ This term "on-service training" is used for untrained teachers who are
already on the job and require training to obtain a certificate. This term
should be distinguished from "in-service training" which is provided for
trained teachers who need to upgrade their teaching skills.



20
program,"1 begun under USAID PED. This three-month on-service program is
being implemented by the Bureau of Curriculum and Extension. The program will
certify 8,000 untrained teachers currently employed in the system in four
cycles training 2,000 teachers each. The first cycle started in June 1992 and
the last will start in January 1994. A formative evaluation of the
accelerated training program is planned at the end of each cycle. Results
will be used to improve the content and implementation of following cycles.
Teachers will be trained by teams of "master trainers" -- chosen from a cadre
of supervisors, learning coordinators, and secondary teachers who have had
primary teaching experience.
73.   The PTAC, conducted in a mixed-gender environment, focuses on practical
teaching in primary content areas which follow the national curriculum.
Emphasis is also placed on school organization, classroom management, and
child development and counseling. The PTAC is designed to give all teachers a
common base of knowledge which can be extended through further in-service
training. This teacher training is specifically designed to address teachinig
problems in rural, multi-grade schools. Multi-grade teaching approaches to be
emphasized include lesson preparation; student centered teaching/learning;
peer tutoring; instructional grouping; library management; materials
preservation; creation of a positive learning environment; and student
assessment and feedback. Upon successful completion of the PTAC, teachers
will be appointed by the GOB as certified teachers.
74.   If successful, this program will eliminate the backlog of untrained
teachers by 1995 and permit the GCETs to focus on their mandate of pre-service
teacher training.
75.    Pre-service Teacher TraininQ.  The Program will support the Bureau of
Curriculum and Extension in converting the province's eleven GCETs from on-
service to pre-service training for primary teachers. Only new recruits will
be admitted to GCETs beginning 1995. In consultation with the National
Curriculum Bureau, the syllabus of the GCETs will be redesigned to better suit
the needs of pre-service training. An introduction to the teaching profession
and what a teacher does will be provided to trainees through directed
observation, practicums, video-taped examples, etc. The GCET staff will be
assisted in this conversion by an intensive staff development program. While
the teaching of content areas cannot and should not be ignored, they cannot be
allowed to overshadow subjects focusing on instruction. Subjects such as:
multi-grade instruction, second-language teaching techniques, child
development, the use of supplementary materials, constructing and using
teacher made aides using local materials, developing and using appropriate
activities, etc. are an important part of any teacher training curriculum.
The syllabus of the GCETs will be continually updated during the life of the
program as new primary school materials and texts become available. Also,
GCETs will be provided with libraries, instructional materials and equipment
centers to introduce teachers to what is available and enable teachers to make
11/ PTAC: Primary Teachers Accelerated Certificate is equivalent to a
Primary Teachers Certificate (PTC) in Balochistan but is not recognized in
other provinces.



21
use of them. Both IDA and the ADB Teacher Training Project will finance these
inputs.
76.   GCETs currently have a capacity of about 1,200 student places.  This is
more than sufficient to meet primary school needs for the BPEP period.
77.   Mobile Female Teacher TraininQ Procram (MFTTP).  The Additional
Directorate of Primary Education is currently experimenting with a mobile
female teacher training program, funded by UNICEF. It is designed to create a
pool of potential female teachers in rural and remote areas. In these areas,
young women with an 8th grade pass or better are unable or unwilling to
participate in the regular residential pre-service training programs due to
cultural reasons. Under MFTTP, mobile training teams conduct training in high
school premises in village centers to which girls from surrounding areas are
transported daily. The present program is only for two months and does not
meet the requirements for a teaching certificate. Beginning in 1993, the
program will be expanded to three-months (it will parallel the "Crash" course)
and will offer the PTC equivalency program so the candidates may obtain a
certificate. The MFTTP will train about 200 females per year up to 1994.
This would enable the candidates to be appointed as a teacher at the Basic Pay
Scale (BPS) upon successful completion of the program. Upon improving her 8th
grade qualification to matriculation, a teacher would be eligible to be
promoted to a regular BPS 7 teacher position without further training. A
"Matriculation Girls Project" funded by the Netherlands will provide tutoring
to these 8th grade girls to enable them to sit for the Matriculation
examination as individual candidates.
78.    From 1995 onward, with the re-orientation of the GCET curriculum to
pre-service training, the curriculum of the PTAC will be revised accordingly
to maintain equivalency. The majority of female pre-service trainees will be
trained under the mobile MFTTP which is only open to female candidates. The
mobile pre-service program will train annually about 500 prospective female
teachers -- 125 every quarter, 5 groups each of 25 trainees. They will be
posted to girls' schools. The MFTTP will be held in districts which have
formed beneficiary participation groups (para. 95) on a priority basis. MFTTP
will be supported by an information campaign which promotes female education
in general and encourages people to identify potential female candidates.
Under the MFTTP, the entry qualification has been relaxed to 8th grade
graduation, however, the entry age to the teaching profession is between 18 to
28. It is therefore necessary to relax the age limitation to allow rural
women with an 8th grade education to be appointed to a teaching position.
Furthermore, there may be women older than 28 with appropriate qualifications
who are willing to enter the work force. Before negotiations, the GOB had
relaxed entry qualification for rural female teachers, to a minimum of an 8th
grade pass, and the entry age range to 14 to 40, in cases where better
qualified women are not available.
79.   In-service training.  At the conclusion of the On-service Programs
(para. 71), the program will support in-service training for all learning
coordinators and all primary teachers in the use of the new instructional
materials in the multi-grade context. Orientation workshops will also be
provided for the 24 District Education Officers, 48 Sub-District Education



22
Officers and 72 Assistant Sub-District Education Officers. Bureau of
Curriculum staff will be master trainers and will train the 595 Learning
Coordinators (LCs) for 3 weeks in 1994. Based on feedback from a recent
assessment of the Learning Coordinators, part of their training will focus on
classroom supervision. This will include systematic classroom observation,
how to help teachers learn and implement new teaching methods in multi-grade
teaching, and provide academic support for teachers. Beginning in 1995, the
LCs will be trained annually for one week in the use of the multi-grade
textbooks and support materials under development. The LCs will in turn train
about 18,00012 teachers under their respective jurisdictions in one-week
workshops. Learning coordinators will be trained to conduct frequent on-site
visits to systematically observe classrooms and provide instructional support.
Every mon.h, one-half of a school day will be set aside for LCs to meet with
their teachers in groups to exchange problems and solutions. The Learning
Coordinators will report to the ASDEOs who will submit training plans to the
SDEOs who will in turn submit consolidated plans to the Bureau of Curriculum
which will have the responsibility to supervise the entire in-service training
program. The training materials for these in-service workshops will be
developed in conjunction with the newly created Instructional Materials Cell
in the Bureau of Curriculum.
80.   Male Learning Coordinators will be provided with motorcycles and groups
of female Learning Coordinators with vans and jeeps. The transport
deficiencies of Sub-District and Assistant Sub-District Education Officers
will also be met. IDA would also finance part of the maintenance costs of the
vehicles. 78 staff months of international technical assistance will be
provided for all of the teacher training components.
Material Resources
81.   Improved instructional materials will be achieved through the provision
of: (a) multi-grade student-centered core texts; (b) supplementary readers;
(c) teacher's guides revised to suit the multi-grade condition; and (d)
improved distribution system (Annex 10). All materials will be screened to
avoid gender bias and materials development efforts will pay particular
attention to enhance the self-image of girls. These components build on the
experience and lessons of the ongoing primary education programs (including
PEP II and USAID PED). 77 staff months of international technical assistance
will be provided for these sub-components. Budgetary allocation for non-
salary recurrent costs, specifically instructional supplies, would be
increased to Rs. 50 per student per year from the current Rs. 21.7 per
student. This would be included in the recurrent cost calculation for the
Annual Operational Plan (para. 58).
82.   Student-centered core texts.  To allow students of different grade
levels in the same classroom to engage in "concurrent" activities, a new
series of student core texts based on the principles of a pupil-centered
approach to encourage independent learning will be developed and introduced
12/ There are currently 14,493 teachers on post. It is anticipated that by
the end of the five-year Program there will be about 18,000 teachers.



23
into the classrooms (Annex 10). The program will support technical assistance
and training to the Instructional Materials Development and Training Cell
(IMDTC) responsive to the Curriculum Bureau to evaluate and field test new
manuscripts for the multi-grade situation in Balochistan. The program will
provide technical assistance, training and equipment to the Balochistan
Textbook Board (BTB) and staff to prepare manuscript specifications, and
evaluate and procure textbooks from commercial publishers. In addition, the
prcgram will support improved premises, equipment and vehicles for the
Textbook Board. The active involvement of private commercial publishers and
printers in Pakistan in the development of new books will be continued and
improved in the program.
83.    Supplementary Materials.  Critical to successful multi-grade learning
environment is the availability of a range of reading materials for students.
The Textbook Board in liaison with the IMDTC and the Curriculum Bureau will be
responsible for purchasing suitable supplementary readers for every primary
school classroom in Balochistan. This will provide much needed support for
reading and will provide the basis for a research-, activity- and enquiry-
based approach to learning which is essential if the independent learning
strategy required by single-teacher, multi-grade classes is to be developed.
84.   Teachers' Guides.  The Instructional Materials Development and Training
Cell will evaluate the learning modules produced under PEP II and will
incorporate them into teachers' guides for use in a multi-grade teaching
environment. The text of the teachers' guides will be prepared by the BTB and
the IMDTC in association with the Curriculum Bureau.
85.   Distribution System.  GOB recognizes that the distribution system for
books and printed materials needs to be re-structured to make it more reliable
and cost efficient. This is particularly necessary since a significant
increase in the number of books is planned to be introduced into Balochistan
primary classrooms. In the first year of BPEP, a study will be conducted to
evaluate the existing distribution system. Based on the recommendation of
this study, funds will be provided for transportation, storage upgrading,
improvement in the packaging of books and better inventory control and
management. This will be tied into improvements in school statistics
information provided by BEMIS and an upgrading of school storage capacity and
conservation practices.
III. Improving Organizational Framework, Planning and Management. (Estimated
Cost: US$184.3 million; IDA financing: US$17.1 million)
86.   This component is designed to address the Province's need to establish
a needs-driven and data-based system of policy development, planning,
management and administration, and monitoring. This will be accomplished
through: (a) restructuring the Department of Education to form a separate
Directorate of Primary Education (DPE), and recruiting and maintaining the
necessary administrative and teaching staff to meet the needs of the system;
(b) establishing a policy, research and evaluation function within the DPE;
and (c) strengthening the management information system. Funds will also be
provided for studies necessary for future program development.



24
StrengtheninQ the Directorate of Primary Education
87.   In order to strengthen the management and administration of primary
education, GOB bifurcated the Directorate of Schools Education into a separate
Directorate of Primary Education and a Directorate of Secondary Education.
Before negotiations, the GOB had formally established the Directorate of
Primary Education with full power and key staff to execute its
responsibilities. The Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) at the
provincial level has four functional sections (Chart 2): (a) Policy, Planning
and Development; (b) Accounts; (c) Administration; and (d) BEMIS. Each
section is headed by a Deputy Director and is responsible for all related
areas of work. To manage the schools in two different climatic zones, 13 two
Regional Additional Directors are to be placed in the field to assist the
Director of Primary Education. These higher level positions have not been
open to female candidates. By December 31, 1993, the GOB will amend the
Service Rules (School Branch) (Women's Section), to include senior
administrative positions at Basic Pay Scale 16 and above. Below the
provincial level, District Primary Education Officers (DPEOs) and Sub-District
Officers have the main responsibilities for administrative supervision of
primary schools.  There will be one male DPEO per district and one female DPEO
per two districts (due to the much smaller number of female schools). Each
DPEO will be assisted by a Sub-District primary Education Officer. The
learning coordinator system in seven districts of PEP II (para. 27) will be
expanded to cover all 24 districts in Balochistan. Learning Coordinators will
be appointed on the basis of 1:15 for boys schools and 1:1014 for girls
schools. The positions of existing Mosque schools' supervisors and other
categories of supervisors will be merged with the formation of the LCs as
planned by GOB. Additional teachers will be hired on the basis of one teacher
per classroom.
88.   A management-needs analysis study will be carried out to help the
Directorate become operational. On the basis of this study, IDA will finance
management training services. Management training will be contracted out by
the Directorate of Primary Education on a regular basis according to needs to
country-based NGOs or management training institute of acceptable standing.
89.   To assist in improving and monitoring staff performance and identify
training needs, sample job descriptions of key education managers and
supervisors have been developed (see Annex 11). The program will provide
local technical assistance to develop annual performance instruments, based on
final job descriptions. A new performance evaluation system will be developed
during the program period and training will be provided to all levels of
13/ Differing climatic conditions in the province resulted in a policy
decision to develop a summer zone and winter zone. The school year in the
Summer Zone is from January to October and in the Winter Zone from March to
December.
14/ These ratios are derived from experience under PEP II. Since very few
girls schools exist in the province, the female learning coordinators have to
travel further and cover fewer schools in the same time frame.



25
supervisory staff to carry out performance evaluation. Performance evaluation
will reward improved teacher and student attendance, full utilization of
available instructional materials and encourage community beneficiary
participation. 74 staff months of international technical assistance and 360
staff months of local consultancies will be provided under this component.
Strengthening the Management Information System
90.   The program will emphasize continued development of the BEMIS (Annex 4)
within the Directorate of Primary Education. BEMIS will collect and analyze
information needed to: (a) prepare the semi-annual school census; (b) provide
personnel and financial management information (including information to
process reimbursement vouchers for school construction to accelerate
disbursement); and (c) expand and update the human resource survey.
Information will flow to the central BEMIS office from branches at: (a) the
central level in the offices of the Secretary, Director of Primary Education
and Director of Secondary Education; (b) Division Education Offices; and (c)
District Education Offices. Each branch will be equipped with computers and
trained personnel. The use of BEMIS data will be incorporated into the
training of District level officers. BEMIS also collects core data for NEMIS,
the National Education Management Information System. IDA would finance 48
staff months of international technical assistance, as well as equipment
maintenance and supply.
91.   Current service rules require promotions from within the Government.
However, there is a dearth of computer personnel within the Department of
Education who are qualified for positions in BEMIS. It is therefore necessary
to fill technical positions externally from the open market.   These include:
the Deputy and Assistant Directors of BEMIS, Technical Assistants North and
South, Systems Analysts, Computer and Assistant Computer Operators, the
Assistant Director Research, Professional Assistant Research, Data Processors
and Computer Operators. Agreements were reached during Negotiations that by
December 31, 1993, the GOB will amend the service rules to allow for external
recruitment of all technical positions related to the Management Information
System, as cannot be filled through promotion for lack of required
qualification.
Policy Monitoring and Evaluation
92.   A Policy Monitoring and Evaluation Unit under the Deputy Director for
Policy Planning and Development will be established to analyze and interpret
data collected by BEMIS and producing related policy studies and
recommendations.   The Unit will evaluate program outcomes, in both
quantitative and qualitative terms. Qualitative evaluation will include
assessment of educational achievement on a sampling basis in the initial
years, leading to a feasible province-wide system of education assessment.
Full development of this unit will allow applied policy research to be carried
out with regard to the relative effectiveness of the various types of schools
in Balochistan, including Mosque schools, the efficacy of mixed schooling, the
feasibility of mixed administration, promotion and repetition, girls'
education, mother tongue, availability and access to schools, service rules,
and community participation. This research will also be used in preparing



26
future programs. 20 staff months of international technical assistance and
120 staff months of local consultancies will be provided to carry out the
above activities.
93.   To fill the policy vacuum with regard to provincial primary education,
GOB will establish a Policy Review Board on Primary Education, chaired by the
Chief Minister of Balochistan, having as members the Planning and Development
Minister, Education Minister, Finance Minister, Finance Secretary and the
Education Secretary. The Director of Primary Education would serve as Board
Secretary. The Board would meet on ad hoc basis whenever a major policy
issue's arises. Before meetings, the Directorate of Primary Education would
prepare a technical assessment of issues for Board review and decision.
IV.   Beneficiary Participation (Estimated Cost: US$0.9 million; IDA
financing: US$0.5 million)
94.   The program will gradually institutionalize beneficiary participation
to help accomplish its objectives: improving access, efficiency and equity,
improving the learning environment and improving organizational framework,
planning and management.
95.   To promote beneficiary participation through an expansion of the pilot
experiment now in progress, UNICEF, CIDA and possibly other donors and
Pakistani charity foundations will finance community workers in selected
districts to work with parents. The DPE will contract services of a few
consultants to form a Coordination Unit to assist the DPE to institutionalize
the beneficiary participation process within the Department of Education.
96.   The Coordinating Unit will: (a) expand the pilot experiment on
beneficiary participation by initiating community work in new districts, then
handing the work over to local NGOs; (b) facilitate the processing of requests
by communities for school construction, teacher appointment, and materials
supply; (c) coordinate an existing network of NGOs"6 in the province for
activities in education through mappinJg of activities and initiatives, and
information exchange; and (d) provide training to the network of NGOs with
regard to education issues and methods of organizing beneficiary groups. It
will work closely with district education offices to provide training and
support for participatory activities, and with the DPE Deputy Director for
Administration who is designated as the liaison with community beneficiary
groups. Based on the pilot experiment, it is anticipated that 50-100
beneficiary groups per year will be established during the first three years,
then between 150 to 200 beneficiary groups per year will be established during
the period 1996-2000. Results from the pilot experiment currently underway
IS/ An example of a major policy issue is the local language textbook policy
which was recently reversed by the Provincial Assembly (see para 22).
16/ Most of the existing NGOs are actively involved in community development,
but not specifically education. Donors actively supporting these NGOs are
UNICEF, Pak-German BRSP and Canadian CIDA.



27
and methods of beneficiary participation are shown in Annex 12. 36 staff
months of consultancies are planned for this component.
97.   GOB has agreed that the responsibility for implementing the beneficiary
participation activities should lie with NGOs outside of government. However,
the process of beneficiary participation is being institutionalized within the
Department of Education. GOB will provide school buildings, teacher posts,
teacher training and materials made available by the program, on a priority
basis, to communities which meet minimum requirements for schools and have
organized beneficiary groups (para. 63). The Department of Education would
reserve a number of unassigned teacher posts at the beginning of the fiscal
year for community beneficiary schools that may be established during the
year. Community workers would assist responsive communities to form a parents
committee consisting solely of parents of children in the school service area.
The parents committee would be responsible for providing temporary shelter and
recruiting and supporting a teacher who would be teaching on a voluntary basis
for at least two months. During this period, assessment would be made of the
teacher's competencies and commitment to teaching. A teacher which passes the
assessment would be eligible for the mobile teacher training program and
his/her school would be sanctioned with a teaching post. Within three years
after the school establishment, the Department of Education would provide a
permanent building for the school. Parents would continue to participate in
the management of the schools following school establishment, particularly the
monitoring of teacher and student attendance and school maintenance. Under
the pilot experiment, 22 schools were established in a period of four months
enrolling about 1000 girls, with an average enrollments twice that of regular
government schools. During this period there was nearly full attendance of
both students and volunteer teachers which is unusual in regular schools. One
finding of the pilot experiment is that continued support by community workers
or District Education Officers is necessary to maintain the momentum.   UNICEF
is considering providing small amounts of grants funds to communities during
this start-up period in order to attract more communities to establish
community beneficiary schools.
D. Program Management and Implementation
Organization and Management
98.   Proaram Management.  The program would be implemented by the line
departments of the new Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) and by existing
line agencies of the Balochistan Education Department. An organizational
chart showing the program management arrangements and implementation
procedures for each sub-component are described in Chart 2.
99.   Proaram Coordination.  Uncoordinated actions under vertical line
departments and autonomous agencies in previous IDA financed projects led to
delays, inefficient use of resources and lapses in quality of outputs (para.
50). Hence, the director of DPE would be responsible for full coordination of
all program-related activities within the Department of Education; facilitate
resource flows to the implementing agencies, and to the appropriate extent
consolidate the procurement of goods and services in consideration of



28
efficiency and economy of scale. The DPE would also serve as the
clearing-house for issues requiring the decision of top management of the
Balochistan Education Department and external agencies including IDA. To
ensure coordination outside of the Department of Education among different
government departments and agencies which have an impact on primary education,
the existing Steering Committee on the PED program, under the chairmanship of
Additional Chief Secretary for Planning and Development will be continued.
The Committee Members include: Additional Chief Secretary (Chair), Secretaries
of Finance, Education and P&D (Implementation); Director of Primary Education;
Director, Bureau of Curriculum and Extension Center; and Secretary, Textbook
Board. This Committee will have the responsibility of reviewing all schemes
and projects in the primary education sub-sector, regardless of funding
sources.
100.     Implementation Resnonsibilities.  On a daily program operational
basis DPE would be responsible for: (a) monitoring program costs and program
accounts; (b) processing disbursement applications and keeping track of
disburo3ments of loan funds; (c) procurement of equipment and software
packages and administration of suppliers and technical assistance contracts;
(d) placement and tracking of local staff receiving training abroad; (e)
monitoring procurement of civil works undertaken by the DCW and Architectural
and Engineering consultants; and (f) preparation of consolidated periodic
reports (and arranging for audits of accounts) on program implementation
progress. The principal implementing agencies and their respective program
sub-component would be: (a) the Directorate of Civil Works (DCW) in charge of
school building, equipment and facilities (para. 61); (b) the Bureau of
Curriculum and Extension (BCE) in charge of teacher training programs (para.
70 et seq.) -- BCE is also responsible for the Balochistan component of the
Teacher Training Project funded by ADB; (c) the Balochistan Textbook Board
(BTB) in charge of books and instructional materials (para. 81); (d) the
Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) in charge of strengthening the
institutional framework, including the provincial directorates program, the
education management information system, planning, research and evaluation
(para. 86), as well as of mobilization of private sector resources -- the
private school pilot experiment and beneficiary participation (para. 95). A
Planning Checklist for Program Implementation, indicating responsible agencies
for each task, is shown in Annex 13, Table 1. Key indicators for attainment
of program targets are shown in Annex 13, Table 2.
101.     Institutional Development.  Past lessons include the critical
importance of long-term resident technical assistance to ensure successful
program implementation and institution building (para. 47). One major task of
the TA team is to train local staff and consultants to enable them to take
over and carry out most of the tasks on their own. The BPEP benefits from a
one-year overlap with the USAID technical assistance team, and the GOB has
agreed to continue with a similar type of technical assistance under BPEP with
IDA financing. Quantities and phasing of technical assistance consultancies
by program component during the BPEP period is shown in Annex 14.   Before
negotiations, the GOB had finalized, to the satisfaction of IDA, the terms of
reference, letter of invitation and conditions of contract for the technical
assistance services. Submission to IDA evaluation and recommendation reports
in respect of the consultants to be employed for the provision of technical



29
assistance is a condition of Credit Iffectiveness. Job descriptions for key
positions in the newly established Directorate of Primary Education have been
prepared (Annex 11). All staff will receive job descriptions and job
induction training. Their perfcrmance skills would be further reinforced
through needs-based management training. Each unit of operation within and
subordinate to the Directorate of Primary Education, as well as the
complementary line agencies, will be enabled to prepare annual work programs
to synchronize and coordinate physical and qualitative inputs into the
program. The built-in monitoring and evaluation capacity of the Directorate
will assist in making needed adjustments and ensuring the achievement of
performance objectives. An institutionalized mechanism of progress reporting
will be used as a management tool throughout the implementation phase. The
practice of using local village contractors to carry out school construction
will be continued. However, to improve the quality of construction, larger
packages of 3 to 5 sites will be grouped together, to the extent possible,
during tendering, to attract better qualified contractors.
102.     Construction manaaement.  Delayed site selection, inefficient
tendering processes, restrictive ceilings placed on unit construction costs,
inadequate supervision, inappropriate school designs and limited construction
management capacity of the Directorate of Civil Works (DCW) were the major
reasons for the unsatisfactory progress on building components under previous
projects. The program addresses these problems by: (a) reinforcing the
provision of a bi-annually updated data base through BEMIS to assist in school
location decisions (para. 63, 90); (b) mandating the submission of the list of
selected school sites by mid-year review and approval of school sites by the
end of December every year to facilitate the construction progress in the
following financial year (para. 63); (c) encouraging the development of
alternative school designs in consonance with the requirements of multi-grade
teaching (para. 61); (d) strengthening engineering supervisory services
through the engagement of an external engineering/architectural firm from the
private sector; and (e) augmenting the capacity of the DCW and the use of
appropriate procurement procedures as described below (para. 118 and Annex
15). All these measures are designed to assist in improving implementation of
the civil works component of the program and have received full agreement from
the implementing agencies. Before negotiations, the GOB had finalized, to
IDA's satisfaction (a) terms of reference, invitation letter, and conditions
of contract for a consultant firm of engineers/architects; and (b) standard
bidding documents for civil works and goods.
Monitoring and Evaluation
103.     Reporting.  The program has one PC-1 for the five-year program
period.   Before negotiations, the PC-1 had been cleared by the Provincial
Development Working Party and the Central Development Working Party. Approval
of the PC-1 by the Executive Committe- of the Federal Government's National
Economic Council is a condition of Credit Effectiveness. This PC-1 provides a
flexible but clear plan for implementation. Within the general plan, an
Annual Operational Plan would be prepared by the DPE, reviewed by the Steering
Committee, and submitted to IDA by March 15 of each year for the following
fiscal year. This Annual Operational Plan would review progress achieved in
the past year, and based on demonstrated capacity, specify targets and



30
activities to be undertaken the next fiscal year to meet overall program goals
and objectives. It would provide a detailed calculation of its development
and recurrent cost needs, including of all existing, planned and new schools.
Beginning in Fiscal Year 1994, the DPE would prepare a Mid-Year Status Report
by November 15 of each fiscal year describing: (a) current activities and
implementation status for each component; and (b) financial status. Within
six months of the Credit Closing Date, MOE would prepare and forward to IDA
its inputs for the Program Completion Report which would summarize program
performance and evaluate the program's successes and problems. GOB will:
beginning with fiscal year 1994, prepare a Mid-Year Status Report by November
15 of each fiscal year, including financial and physical progress; and submit
a Program Completion Report to IDA within six months of the Closing Date.
104. Annual Reviews. Annual reviews of program performance would be carried
out jointly GOB and IDA before June 15 every year beginning in fiscal year
1994 in order to determine implementation progress and ways to improve program
operations. The annual reviews would ensure consistency of activities for
each component and sub-component with agreements reached at appraisal, review
performance of the implementing groups and institutions, assess emerging needs
for adjustments to program parameters,-reach agreement on specific activities
and targets for the following year, and financial resources required to carry
out the Operational Plan.
105. Mid-term Review. A Mid-term Review would replace the third Annual
Review and focus on in-depth assessment of the policy framework for sectoral
improvements. The review would: (a) allow opportunity to effect changes in
policy which may be desirable based upon experience during the initial period,
and effect mid-course adjustments, if necessary, in overall program targets
and implementation procedures; and (b) identify a possible follow-up operation
to ensure continuity of the program after the completion of the current
operation. Agreuments wcrd reached during Negotiations that the GOB will, in
consultation with IDA, and in accordance with terms of refe:ence and
methodology satisfactory to IDA, undertake and complete by June 15, 1996 a
Mid-term Review of the Program and carry out the recommendations of such
review.



31
E. Program Costs and Financing
106.  A breakdown of program costs by component by financing sources is shown
in Table II.1. These costs are Bank estimated of all ongoing and planned
commitments in primary education in Balochistan.
Table II.1 Estimated Program Costs and Financing by Component (US$ million)
TOTAL; |GOB     IDA    NUSAID    ADS    UICEF   CIDA    Nether
=   I  _________    JUSAID   LADS  CIDA  ~~Lands
Inproving access,    IIZ    40.4   70.8            0.5
equity and
efficiency              _    _    _       _ _ __
rImproving the    33    13.0   17.6        0.4     0.1     1.3
Learning
envi rornment           _________ :  l
Improving         184   166.2   17.1       1.0
organizational
framework 1/     _I                   .
Beneficiary         1             0.5      0.1             0.1    0.1      0.1
participation      _
Total             330   219.6   106.0    1.5       0.6     1.4    0.1      0.1
1/ Including recurrent operational costs of the current primary education
system.
107. The total program is estimated to cost about US$330 million equivalent
for five years, US$151 million for development and US$179 million for
recurrent expenditures (Table II.2). Of the recurrent costs, about 4.0% would
be d'evot -d to operation and maintenance and classroom materials. IDA would
finance 70t of the development costs. Of this 70t, approximately half would
support traditional recurrent cost activities that, under the Government
budgeting system, are considered development costs. This recurrent component
financed by IDA includes specific quality improvement items which are crucial
to the success of education development in the province.
Table II.2: Total Projected Cost for BPEP (FY93 Rupees Million)
BSase                                  FY94-98
FY93  FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98  Rupees  US S
Totah Recurrent Expenditure    749.8  808.0  846.6  892.5  939.5  985.8  4481.3  179
Total tDevetopmnt Expenditure  530.1  618.0  695.4  749.9  798.1  902.2  3763.5  151
Total Expeniditure       1279.9  1427.4 1544.1  1645.4  1739.7  1888.3  8244.8  330
Porcent recurrent:       58.6X  56.7X  55.0X  54.4X  54.1X  52.2X  54.4X 54.4X
Percent increase per year:      11.5X  8.2X   6.6X   5.7X   8.5X
Compound growth rate 1994-98.    7.2X
108. The total program would represent an average annual increase of 7.2t in
real terms which is well within the historical growth for primary education of
an average rate in real terms of 17t since 1983 (Annex 5, Table 1). The total
development spending for this program is 46t of the program cost, of which GOB



32
would finance $40 million (26% of total development expenditure) (Tables II.2
& II.3).
Table II.3:  Projected Development Costs for BPEP (FY93 Rupees Millions)
Base                           FY94-98  Percent of
FY93* FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 Rupees US S totaL
GOB                167.8 169.7 172.1 192.6 218.3 257.4 1010.0 40.4 26.82
IDA                170.0 402.5 490.0 545.0 572.5 637.5 2647.5 105.9 70.32
USAID              178.5    25.0    12.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  37.0    1.5  1.02
Asian Development Bank    6.5  6.5  6.5  2.0  0.0  0.0  15.0 0.6  0.82
UNICEF               7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  7.0  35.0  1.4  0.9X
CIDA                 0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3   1.5   0.1  0.12
The NetherLands      0.0  0.5  1.0  1.0  0.0  0.0  2.5 0.1  0.1X
TOTAL              530.1 618.0 695.4 749.9 798.1 902.2 3763.5 150.5  1002
Budget Growth Rate (percent)   16.62 12.5% 7.82  6.4X 13.0X
Compound growth rate 1994-98:   9.92
* Figures for FY93 are allocations, not actuaLs.
109.  To implement the above program, the recurrent budget17 would need to
increase on average at 5.1% annually in real terms (a total of US$179 million)
(Table II.4). The overall revenue picture for the total provincial Government
budget is projected to grow at about 8% based on the expected overall GNP
growth rate of 6.5% and the expected revenues increases. Given the revenue
picture for the province as a whole, and if the province maintains the share
of primary education at 11i of the total budget as in the past year, the
province will have no difficulty in financing this program. GOB's financing
pattern for primary education, however, will have to be restructured to
emphasize items which are necessary for improved enrollment, retention and
achievement, i.e. instructional materials, teacher training, stationery and
supplies. GOB will also have to ensure that sufficient posts will be created
for the newly established Directorate of Primary Education and that sufficient
teacher posts are made available annually to meet the anticipated demand from
the construction program. The estimated number of posts required is shown in
Annex 7, Table 3. To assist GOB to meet the cost implication of these
incremental posts, IDA will finance the salaries of a decreasing number of
those posts on development budget during the program period. To ensure
sustainability and permanent strengthening of the sector, agreemaents were
reached during Negotiations that the GOB will transfer the incremental teacher
and administrative posts to GOB's current budget in a phased manner beginning
with fiscal year 1995, so that by the end of program period all such positions
are sanctioned under the recurrent budget for permanent posts. A suggested
phasing of the transfer of posts is shown in Annex 7, Table 4.
17/ The recurrent cost calculation is based on the needs of every existing,
new or planned school in the province. Major assumptions behind recurrent
cost calculation are that every classroom has to have a teacher, every student
a set of textbooks, every school a minimum set of supplementary materials,
Operational and Management support and instructional supplies, and that all
untrained teachers woull become certified and in-service training would be
provided arnually to all existing and new teachers through the Learning
Coordinators network.



33
Table II.4: Projected Recurrent Costs (FY93 Rupees million)
FY94-98
FY93    FY94       FY95       FY96      FY97      FY98   Rupees   US S
Teacher salaries (existing)  692.7   721.5           732.9     767.2    802.9    841.8   3866.4   154.7
Salaries, new posts               28.8      11.4      34.3      35.7       38.9      40.0      160.3      6.4
Learning Coordinator Salaries  8.8    22.0            22.0      26.4       28.6      28.6      127.6      5.1
Teacher Training--Preservice                 4.3       4.0       4.9        5.1       5.2       23.1      0.9
Teacher Training--inservicel8              17.5       18.6      19.7      21.0       22.4      99.1      4.0
Stationery/Instruct. Supplies 10.8    23.3            26.3      29.6       32.1      34.3     145.5       5.8
O&M                                8.7       9.3      10.5       11.8      12.8      13.7       58.2      2.3
Total                            749.8   809.4    848.7    895.5    941.6    986.2   4481.3   179.3
Budget Growth Rate (percent)               8.0%       4.9%    5.5%       5.2%       4.7%
Compound growth rate 1994-98:              5.1%
18/ Does not include on-service training which is fully budgeted on
development side, since there will be no more untrained teachers by 1995.



34
III. IDA FINANCING
A. IDA Financing by Component and Categories of Expenditure
110.      Based on the indicative program for five years, annual program costs
would be agreed at Annual Reviews  (para. 104).   The proposed IDA credit of
US$106 million would finance any item in the BPEP not already committed by
other donors or the Government, and considered critical to achieve the program
objectives. The only items that would not be financed by IDA are salaries of
existing staff (already covered by the Government) and building of new boys'
schools, which are attended by boys only, allowed under Government's own
financing. A preliminary base case estimate of the items which IDA could
finance has been made. Based on this indicative estimate, the proposed IDA
credit would finance items having a total cost of US$120 million, including
Government financing of taxes, duties and counterpart funds for these items.
A summary of the indicative estimate by component is shown in Table III.1 and
by category of expenditures is shown in Table III.2. With the IDA
contribution, the total BPEP program would be fully financed by the donors and
the Government.
Table III.1: SUMMARY OF THE IDA FINANCING BY COMPONENT
% of    %
----- Rupee Million ----   ---- US$ Million  ----  Base  Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Costs  Exchanqe
IMPROVING ACCESS. EOUITY AND EFFICIENCY
Girls Scholarship Program              11.5  23.7    35.2       0.5    0.9      1.4       1%    67%
School Construction and Repair      1,413.6  171.8  1,585.5    56.5    6.9    63.4       65%    11%
Sub-Total    1,425.2  195.5  1,620.7    57.0    7.8    64.8       66S    12%
IMPROVING THE LEARNING ENVIRONMENT
Teacher Training                      98.8  44.0   142.8        4.0    1.8      5.7       6%    31%
Instructional Material Development   109.9  150.7   260.7      4.4    6.0    10.4        llt    58%
Sub-Total      208.7  194.8   403.5      8.3    7.8    16.1        16%    48%
IMPROVING ORGANIZATIONAL FRAMEWORK
Strengthening the Primary ED. Dire    154.0  165.3   319.3     6.2    6.6    12.8        13%    52%
Education Management Information S    20.2  34.5    54.7        0.8    1.4      2.2       2%    63%
Planning, Research and Evaluation      6.2  13.6    19.7        0.2    0.5      0.8       1%    69%
Policy Studies and Project Prepn      9.4  11.4    20.8       0.4    0.5      0.8       1%    55%
Sub-Total      189.7  224.8   414.5      7.6    9.0    16.6       17t    54%
BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATION
Beneficiary Participation              3.9   9.9    13.8        0.2    0.4      0.6       1%    72%
Sub-Total        3.9   9.9    13.8       0.2    0.4       0.6      1t    72%
Total Base Costs:                   1,827.5  624.9  2,452.4    73.1   25.0    98.1    100%    25%
Physical Contingencies:            171.5  60.3   231.8       6.9    2.4      9.3       9%    26%
Price Contingencies:               123.0  192.4   315.5      4.9    7.7    12.6       13%    61%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 2,122.0  877.6  2,999.7    84.9   35.1   120.0    122%    29%
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding
Estimated duties and taxes (US$million):     $9.0      8.1% of net project cost
Price contingencies as t Base+Physical cont:          11.8%



35
Table  III.2:  SUMMARY OF IDA FINANCING BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
% of      %
----- Rupee Million ----    ----  US$ Million  ---- Base   Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Costs  Exchange
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
Consultants (International)            18.6      99.0    117.6        0.7      4.0       4.7         5%      80%
_-  -     - - - -   - - - -    - - -    - - -     - - -    - - - - _-_-__ _-__ _ _ -
Sub-Total Technical Assistance:         18.6      99.0    117.6        0.7      4.0       4.7         5%      80%
B. TRAINING + STUDIES
Fellowships (Foreign)                   0.0      50.4      50.4       0.0      2.0       2.0         2%    100%
Training (Local)                       92.3      82.5    174.7        3.7      3.3       7.0         7%      47%
Consultants (Local)                    70.9      25.8      96.8       2.8      1.0       3.9         4%      27%
Studies and Project Preparation    11.6          10.3      22.0       0.5      0.4       0.9         1%      47%
Sub-Total Technical Assistance:        174.9    169.0    343.9         7.0      6.8      13.8        14%      49%
C.  EQUIPMENT. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS AND VEHICLES
Equipment                               4.8      19.2      23.9       0.2      0.8       1.0        1%      80%
Instructional Materials                55.4    129.4    184.8         2.2      5.2       7.4        8%      70%
Vehicles                               12.6      25.2      37.8       0.5      1.0       1.5        2%       67%
Sub-Total Eqpt, Spares & Vehicles:        72.8    173.7    246.5          2.9     6.9        9.9       10%      70%
D. BUILDING FACILITIES
Building Construction               1,051.6    165.9  1,217.5        42.1      6.6      48.7       50%       14%
Furniture                             154.4       8.1    162.5        6.2      0.3       6.5         7%       5%
Building Facilities: Sub-tot  1,205.9    174.0  1,380.0            48.2      7.0      55.2       56%      13%
E.  INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
Incremental Salaries 1/               118.2       0.0    118.2        4.7      0.0       4.7        5%       0o
Building and Vehicle Maintenance  237.1           9.2    246.3        9.5      0.4       9.9       10%        4%
Incr. Rec Costs: Sub-total         355.3        9.2    364.5       14.2      0.4      14.6       15%       3%
Total Base Costs:                      1,827.5    624.9  2,452.4        73.1    25.0       98.1       100%      25%
Physical Contingencies:               171.5      60.3    231.8        6.9      2.4       9.3        9%      26%
Price Contingencies:                  123.0    192.4    315.5         4.9      7.7      12.6       13%      61%
TOTAL COSTS              2,122.0    877.6  2,999.7         84.9    35.1    120.0        122%      29%
.-r m;.            l.-;   nt r= rre ';B  ..... ........ ....... ......... ----.-. .--....... -. .........  ......
1/ Does not include incremental posts under the GOB's permanent  recurrent budget.
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding
Estimated duties and taxes (US$million):            $9.0       8.1% of net project cost
Price contingencies as % Base+Physical cont:                  11.8%
111. Basis of Cost Estimates. Base Costs were estimated as follows: (a)
construction and furniture for additional classrooms are derived from recently
awarded contracts under the PEP II (Credit 1621-PAK) and the PED; school
construction and furniture for the new schools are derived from the proposed
classroom designed to accommodate the curriculum and teaching materials
necessary for multi-grade instruction; (b) unit costs for consultants,
fellowships and training are derived from comparable Technical Assistance in
PEP II and PED and include housing, relocation costs, salaries, subsistence
and overheads; (c) equipment, textbook and software costs are based upon



36
recent contracts and quotations from suppliers of books, school equipment and
software; (d) salaries and allowances of local staff are based on current
Government rates. Base cost estimates reflect prices at the time of
negotiations.
112. Costs iper Student. Construction costs per student place for additional
and multi-grade classroom are estimated at US$195 and US$260 respectively.
Furniture costs are US$20 and US$31 respectively. 9
113. Customs Duties and Taxes. The IDA financed-items include an estimated
US$9.0 million equivalent for customs duties and taxes on civil works, locally
procured equipment, furniture and services. This cost will be financed by
GOB.
114.  Contingency Allowances.  IDA-financed items include a contingency for
unforeseen physical additions (US$9.3 million) equal to 10 percent of the base
cost of all these items. Annual rates of foreign price increases have been
estimated at 3.9 percent in FY 1992-1993 and 3.8 percent thereafter. Local
price increases have been estimated at 8.0 percent for FY 1992-1993, and 6.0
percent thereafter. Because of the significant differential between the
estimated annual foreign and local price increases, the overall price
increases for the IDA-financed items have been calculated on the basis of the
estimated foreign price escalation rates. This approach is justifiable on the
expectation that the policy of adjusting the Rupee exchange rate to reflect
the inflation differential between Pakistan and its trading partners will
continue.
115. Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) civil works -- 14 percent; (b) books and materials -
- 70 percent; (c) equipment -- 80 percent; (d) vehicles -- 67 percent; (e)
technical assistance -- 80 percent; (f) fellowships -- 100 percent; (g)
incremental recurrent costs for school maintenance and local staff
remuneration -- 0 percent; and (h) building and vehicle maintenance -- 4
percent. The resulting foreign exchange component including contingencies is
estimated at US$35.0 million, or about 29t of total program cost.
116. Recurrent Costs. It is not possible to isolate recurrent costs
generated solely by the IDA financed items as all components of the total
program are fully integrated. The total program recurrent costs is about
US$179 million equivalent luring the five-year program period, of which about
US$28 million is incremental recurrent costs. On an annual basis, the FY98
incremental costs are equivalent to 6% of GOB's FY93 recurrent expenditures
and is well below the 17% real term growth rate recorded between FY84-FY92.
GOB has agreed on an annual 8 per cent increase (real terms) on the primary
education recurrent budget. This rate of increase would be sufficient to
19/   These cost figures are quite different because: (i) area per student
place for traditional additional classroom and multi-grade classroom is 1.4
and 1.7 SM respectively; (ii) multigrade classroom costs include costs for
latrine block and boundary wall; and (iii) multigrade classroom furniture
includes more items (lockers, tables and counters).



37
cover the incremental recurrent costs generated by the total program and is
considered sustainable. During Annual Review, GOB would provide documentary
evidence that adequate recurrent funds for maintenance and operation of
existing facilities and newly instituted programs have been met, and in the
semi-annual status report that adequate recurrent costs have been allocated in
the budgetary documents.
B. Financing Arrangements
117. The proposed IDA Credit of US$106.0 million would finance 100 percent of
the foreign exchange requirements and 83 percent of local cost of these items.
GOB would provide the counterpart funds including taxes, duties on these items
(US$14.2 million) or 17 percent of local costs (including all taxes and duties
amounting to US$9.0 million). To avoid disbursement delays, GOB will deposit
GOB's counterpart funds for the IDA-financed items into the accounts of the
implementing agencies on a quarterly basis. IDA financing by disbursement
category would be in accordance with Table III.3. below.
Table III.3: IDA FINANCING BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(Including Contingencies in US$ Million)
IDA         Government       % of Total
of Balochistan    Cost
Category of Expenditure         Amount      %   Amount a/   %    Amount    t
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                4.5       80t    1.1      20t   5.7        5t
International Consultants        4.5       80%    1.1       20%   5.7       5t
TRAINING                           16.3       99%    0.2       it  16.5       14t
Local Training *                 8.4       99%    0.1        1%   8.5        7t
Fellowships/Study Tours          2.4      100t    0.0       0%   2.4        2%
Local Consultants                4.5       98%    0.1       2%   4.6         4t
Policy Studies and Project Prep    1.0     98%    0.0       2%   1.0        1t
EQUIPMENT and INSTRUCT. MATERIALS   9.2       77%    2.7      23t  11.9       10%
Equipment                        0.9       80%    0.2       20%   1.1       1t
Vehicles                         1.0       60%    0.7       40%   1.7        1%
Instructional Materials          7.2       80%    1.8      20%   9.0        8%
BUILDING FACILITIES                64.6       94%    3.4       6t  68.2       57t
Buildings/Works                 56.8       94t    3.2        6%  60.1       50%
Furniture                        7.8       97t    0.2       3%   8.1        7%
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS        11.4      65%    6.2       35%  17.6       15%
Incremental Salaries 1/          5.2      100%    0.0       0%   5.2        4%
Building and Vehicle Maintenance   6.2     50%    6.2       50%  12.5       10%
TOTAL FINANCING                   106.0       88%   14.0      12%  120.0     100%
NOTE: Numbers may not add up due to rounding
a/ Including taxes and duties estimated at:   $9.0 million
* Covers cost of workshops that are 100% financed and local trainers that are 98t financed
1/ Not including permanent incremental posts on GOB's recurrent budget



38
C. Procurement Arrangements
Amounts and Methods of Procurement'/
(US$ Millions)
Category of Expenditure          ICB      LCB   SHOPPING   OTHER    TOTAL
Buildings/Works                        60.1                         60.1
(56.8]                      [56.8]
Furniture                               8.1                          8.1
[7.8]                       [7.8]
Equipment                                         1.2                1.2
[0.9]              [0.9]
Vehicles                       1.6                0.1                1.7
[1. 0]             [0.0]              [1. 0]
Paper, Textbooks &
Training Materials            3.2      4.7       1.1                9.0
[3.2)    [3.1]    [0.9]               [7.2]
Fellowships/Study Tours                                    2.4       2.4
[2.4]    [2.4]
Consultancy Services                                       10.3     10.3
[9.0]    [9.0]
Local Training                                              8.5      8.5
(8.4]    [8.4]
Policy Studies and Project Preparation                      1.0      1.0
[1.0]    [1.0]
Incremental Salaries  2/                                    5.2      5.2
[5.2]    [5.2)
Building and Vehicle Maintenance                           12.5     12.5
[6.2]    [6.2]
Total Financing Requirements    4.8        73.0      2.4      39.8    120.0
Total IDA Credit         [4.2]   [67.7]    [1.9]   [32.2)  [106.0]
1/ Including contingencies.
2/ Does not include incremental posts under GOB's recurrent budget for permanent
posts.
NOTE: IDA Credit in Brackets.



39
118. Explanation about the various procurement methods are enumerated below:
(a) Civil Works. The estimated cost of the construction component is
about US$ 60.1 million equivalent including contingencies. The
civil works are small and not suitable for ICB. The works are
scattered in twenty-four districts of the Province and would be
carried out through LCB in packages of works of at least three to
five sites depending upon their distance from each other. The
planning and designing of the building and facilities for the
Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) and for the Balochistan
Textbook Board (BTB) would be carried out by an architectural and
engineering firm. DCW will carry out the procurement of these
works through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA (see Annex 15).
(b) Furniture. An amount of US$ 8.1 million equivalent including
contingencies has been allocated for the school furniture of
about 4,000 classrooms. The furniture would be procured by the
Directorate of Primary Education (see Annex 15). Tenders from
pre-qualified manufacturers would be invited in packages to suit
the agreed annual construction program using LCB procedures
acceptable to IDA.
(c)  EQuipment.  Replacement of computer equipment over a period of
five years in packages averaging about US$ 200,000 for the BEMIS,
computer scftware, journals, training materials and audio-visual
materials in an amount not exceeding US$ 1.2 million will be
procured through International Shopping.
(d) Vehicles. The estimated cost for vehicles is US$ 1.7 million
equivalent. Motor vehicles and motorcycles would be procured
through Local Shopping (LS) in two separate packages below
$50,000 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $100,000, and ICB
for packages above $200,000 (see Annex 15).
(e) Paper. The total estimated cost for the paper for textbooks is
approximately US$ 3.2 million equivalent. The paper would be
procured by the Balochistan Textbook Board (BTB) in annual lots
through ICB according to IDA's guidelines (see Annex 15).
(f) Publication and distribution of textbooks. The total estimated
cost allocated for publication of textbooks is US$ 2.3 million
equivalent. An amount not exceeding US$ 1.3 million equivalent
has been allocated for the packaging and distribution of
textbooks and other training material. Since the textbooks are
printed in annual lots over a four year period, in packages of
less than US$ 600,000 equivalent, and are in a local language
this procurement is unlikely to attract foreign suppliers. The
Balochistan Textbook Board would invite bids through LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA.
(g) TraininQ materials. An amount not exceeding US$ 1.1 million
equivalent including contingencies has been allocated for the



40
procurement of equipment and materials for the development,
design, production and storage of training materials through LCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Sundry items, e.g. audiovisual
material, videotape recorders, typewriters, office supplies, not
exceeding US$ 10,000 in each contract and US$ 1.1 million
equivalent aggregated could be purchased through Local Shopping
on the basis of three quotations from independent suppliers.
(h)   Consultancv Services.  There are two consultancy services
required in the Program: (a) Architectural and Engineering firm
(US$ 2.2 million equivalent) to assist in the construction
management and supervision of works. The selection procedure for
hiring the architectural and engineering firm would be in
accordance with IDA Guidelines, and (b) Technical Assistance.
The Directorate of Primary Education would hire the services of
consultants following IDA Guidelines to provide technical
assistance in an estimated amount of US$ 8,1 million equivalent.
119.        Procurement Reviews.  Bidding documents for all civil works
contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent in value and first three contracts
in each year for amounts below US$200,000 would be subject to prior review by
IDA before Invitation to Bidders. The rest of the contracts for Civil works
would be subject to selective ex-post review by IDA. Vehicles and paper to be
procured through ICB would be subject to prior review by IDA before the
bidders are invited for bidding. Consultancy services, both for construction
management and supervision of civil works and the technical assistance, would
be reviewed ex-ante by IDA. Other contracts for procurement of goods and
services would be subject to selective post-review by IDA.
D. Disbursements
120. The proposed credit is expected to be disbursed over a period of six
years (June 1993 - July 1999). The current regional sectoral disbursement
profile is nine years for traditional projects, but the present program is a
time-slice of a long-term program. Expenditures over a five-year period are
.jased on the phasing and programming of program activities in line with GOB's
sector development plan. The disbursement period is spread over six years to
include time required for processing IDA reimbursements. Disbursements, net
of taxes and duties, would be made as follows:
A.    l00 percent of expenditure for civil works;
B.    for equipment, furniture, textbooks and textbook printinag,
training materials and software: l00 percene of foreign
expenditures; 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured items; and 80 percent for items procured locally;
C.    for vehicles: 100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured vehicles; and 60
percent for vehicles procured locally;



41
D.    100 percent of expenditures for services of specialists and local
consultants, fellowships, training (in-country and abroad),
preparation of studies and research, and program development
costs (curriculum, textbook manuscripts);
20
E.    100 percent for salaries of incremental staff;  and
F.    50 percent for building and vehicle maintenance.
121.  Full documentation would be req.ired for all consultant services,
fellowships, training, textbook paper, textbooks, vehicles and all other
contracts for goods and works above $100,000 equivalent. Disbursements for
goods and works less than $100,000 and incremental salaries and operating
costs would be made on the basis of itemized SOEs. The documentation for SOE
expenditures would be retained by the implementing agency and made available
for review by IDA supervision missions. A Special Account would be
established at the National Bank of Pakistan to facilitate payment of eligible
small expenditures. This Account would be maintained in US Dollars with an
authorized allocation of $6.0 million. The Account would be used for both
local and foreign expenditures of less than $600,000 equivalent under all
categories. All expenditures above $600,000 equivalent could be submitted
directly to IDA for payment without using funds from the Special Account.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account should be submitted to
IDA on a monthly basis or whenever the Account balance falls below 50%,
whichever occurs first.
E. Accounts and Audits
122.   Separate accounts would be maintained by the DPE for all itemis financed
by IDA. These accounts, including the Special Account, would be audited in
accordance with the IDA "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of
Projects Financed by the World Bank" (July 1992). IDA would be provided,
within nine months of the end of each fiscal year of the Government, an audit
report of such scope and detail as IDA reasonably request, including a
separate opinion on disbursements against certified SOEs. The separate
opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during the fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal
applications. GOB will appoint independent auditors acceptable to IDA in a
timely manner to undertake annual audits and to prepare audit reports of the
IDA Project Accounts, Special Account and Statements of Expenditures; and
provide to IDA within nine months of the end of each fiscal year certified
copies of the audited accounts, together with the auditor's report and opinion
thereon, and a certified copy of the auditors report and opinion on SOEs.
20/   Incremental staff on the development budget only.  The Government will
transfer an increasing number of these posts to the recurrent budget for
permanent posts each year. A suggested phasing is shown in Annex 7, Table 4,
subject to joint decisions between GOB and IDA at Annual Reviews.



42
F. Status of Preparation
123. At appraisal, substantial program preparation and start-up activities
have been accomplished, which should reduce implementation delays. These
included: (a) identification of school sites for the first year of school
construction according to agreed criteria; (b) preparation of terms of
reference and a short list of technical assistance firms; and (c) preparation
of standard bidding documents for civil work contracts. Approval of the PC-1
by the ECNEC and submission of evaluation and recommendation reports in
respect of the consultants to be employed for the provision of technical
assistance are conditions of Credit Effectiveness. The program for
supervision by IDA is shown in Annex 16.
G. Environmental Impact
124. The environmental impact of the proposed program is expected to be
neutral (screening category C). The program would improve the sanitary
environment of about 1,200 existing schools, which lack basic sanitary
facilities and provide such facilities for all new construction. Construction
supervisors and architects would be required to ensure that buildings and
other works under the program are constructed in such a way as to minimize any
harmful environmental impact: for example, to avoid erosion, by proper design
of drainage, to avoid contamination of the water table by sanitary facilities,
and to minimize possible harmful effects of emissions associated with the
baking of bricks in wood fired kilns and other unavoidable environmental
disruptions associated with the construction of a large number of small
schools.






43
IV. PROGRAM BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Expected Benefits
125.   The five-year program is expected to increase primary enrollment by
about 330,000, nearly double the participation rate for girls from 15% to 29%,
and improve the rate for boys from 49% to 70%. Worldwide research has shown
that primary education has very high social returns and that education of
girls, in particular, will also lead to reduced fertility -- which is
particularly important in light of Pakistan's high population growth rate of
3.2%. Through recruitment and training of local women as teachers, the
economic returns of education for girls will become more apparent to rural
parents, who would be encouraged to send their girls to school.
Information-based decision making in education management and involvement of
parents in school establishment process will lead to increased participation
rates and enhanced resource mobilization through parents donating services.
Increasing the number of hours of active learning by pupils in class as a
result of developing a pupil-centered approach will improve performance, and
thus students' and teachers' levels of satisfaction with schooling. This in
turn should reduce drop-out and repetition rates ard increase the efficiency
and decrease costs of primary education.
B. Program Risks and Actions to Minimize them
126. The major risk is that the Government implementation agencies lack
capacity to implement the program. This risk is being addressed by a one-year
overlap in the resident technical assistance team between the USAID Primary
Education Development Program and IDA support, and the Government's agreement
to contract similar technical assistance during the five-year program.
Another risk is the lack of female teachers to staff the girls'-schools. This
risk is addressed by a community survey of all 9,000 villages in the province
to identify educated girls who are willing to be teachers, then to recruit and
train them through a Mobile Teacher Training Program. Continued professional
and materials support are provided to these teachers through the Learning
Coordinators System. Risks also attach to the development of community
involvement. In the past, beneficiaries have not been involved in community
decisions about schooling, which were taken by a few traditional community
leaders who tended to oppose girls' education. The program would be hindered
if they do not relinquish control. This risk is being addressed by
establishing school committees which would consist only of parents of children
in the school service areas, regardless of their status in the community. The
school committees would be involved in determining school sites and monitoring
quality. A pilot experiment conducted during program preparation confirmed
the viability of beneficiary participation.



44
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
127.   Agreements were reached during Negotiations that GOB will:
A.    provide an official letter setting forth the Province's primary
education sector policy, strategy and priorities by June 30, 1993
(para. 57);
B.    (a) submit to IDA by April 30, a draft Annual Operational Plan
for the following fiscal year, (b) review annually with IDA, not
later than June 15 in each fiscal year, program implementation
for the fiscal year and agree on the Operational Plan for the
following fiscal year and (c) ensure that adequate development
and recurrent budgetary allocations will be made, both from
domestic and external sources, to carry out the agreed
Operational Plan (para. 59);
C.    base school location planning and building decisions, regardless
of funding sources, on needs and/or demonstrated demand, as shown
in the yearly school census conducted by BEMIS and/or community
requests (para. 63);
D.    submit the fully approved list of school sites for IDA financing
according to agreed priority criteria no later than November 15
of each year, beginning November 1993. During the first year of
project implementation, carry out school construction in sites
already approved (para. 63);
E.    introduce double shifts where needed (para. 64);
F.    follow procedures and criteria acceptable to IDA for selection of
students to receive project scholarships for poor girls to attend
private schools, and for the choice of schools (para. 66);
G.    by December 31, 1993, amend the Service Rules (School Branch)
(Women's Section) to include senior administrative positions at
Basic Pay Scale 16 and above (para. 87);
H.    in consultation with IDA, and in accordance with terms of
reference and methodology satisfactory to IDA, undertake and
complete by June 15, 1996 a Mid-term Review of the Program and
carry out the recornmendations of such review (para. 105);
I.    transfer the incremental teacher and administrative posts to
Government's recurrent budget in a phased manner beginning with
fiscal year 1995, so that by the end of program period all such
positions are sanctioned under the recurrent budget for permanent
posts (para. 109).



45
128.  The Government agreed to meet the following special conditions by
Credit Effectiveness:
A.    submission to IDA of evaluation and recommendation reports for
the consultants to be employed for the provision of technical
assistance (para. 101);
B.    approval of the PC-1 by the Executive Committee of the Federal
National Economic Council (para. 103).
129.   Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable basis
for an IDA Credit of SDR 76.4 million equivalent to the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan.






46
Annex 1
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Primary Education in Balochistan: Summary Information
Girls       Boys          Total
Population:                566,230      627,071      1,193,300
(Age 4-9)
Primary Enrollment:         82,848      323,569        406,417
Gross Participation rate:    14.6'         51.6%          34.1t
Primary school students by age and grade:  1/
AGE   -----------------------  GRADE  -------------------   TOTAL
k        p         2        3         4         5|
_ _  I   __ __---------------_                 _-_-__     _ __ _ I  __-__
41   11521          0         0        0         0        0 111521
5 I  55150       6500        0         0         0        0    61650
6     41127    25779      4620         0         0        0    71526
7     20427    21696    17927       4538         0        0  f 64588
8      9188    12215    17519    14862        3755        0    57539
9 I    3787      5304    10619    12907    10642       2996  I 46255
10 I    2106      2863     5760      9377    10106      7649    37861
11      1489      1291     2696      4916      7229     7223  ( 24844
12 j       0       862     1312      2709      4614     5946  I 15443
13 I       0         0      754      1174      2353     3693      7974
14         0         0         0      613      1026     1970  I 3609
151        0         0         0        0       524      865      1389
16_        0         0         0        0         0      314       314
TOTAL | 144795    76510    61207    51096    40249    30656  1404513
1/ Note: Numbers do not add up to total due to missing data.
Source: BEMIS School Census, 1990



47
Annex 2
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Schools providing the Primary Cycle.
Selected characteristics by school gender and level.
(Provincial Government schools only)
School Gender                   No. ot           Total            Total         | Total           Average           Average        | Average
& Level                         Schools          Primary          Primary         Primary          Students/        Studenta/ a       Students
I                  R Enroll.        Teachers    | Clasarms          School            Teacher        | Classrm
soya '
Mosque (K-31                          2,316           79,769           3,481           2,179                34                23                37
35t              25t             26%             211
Primary  (X-5)                        3,549         147,983            6,172           5,236                42                24                28
54%              46t             46%             s1%
Middle (K-81                            501           52,503           2,367           1,587               105                22                33
8t             16t              18t             16t
High (K-la)                             208           38,075           1,481           1,188               183                26                32
3%             12t              II%             12t
Total                                 6,574         318,330           13,501          10,190                48                24                31
lOOt             100%            100l           100% lOOt
Girls'
Mosque (K-3)                             13              534               13              12               41                41                45
2%               it              it              it
Primary  (K-5)                          495           28,091           1,133              826               57                25                34
79t              4 7%            49t             6It%
Middle (K-8)                             70           12,328             549              262              176                22                47
lit              21t             24%t            19_ l
High (K-10)                              47           18,907             617             258               402                31                73
t8              32t             27t             19%
Total                                 625          59,860            2,312           1, 358               96               26                 44
100%             100%            100l            10 oOt



48
Annex 3
Table 1
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Internal Efficiency of Primary Schools
Average       Average        Average
Repetition     Dropout        Promotion
Rate.         Rate            Rate
Grade   Girl   Boy   Girl   Boy   Girl    Boy
Kachi    25     30      27     25     48      45
Grade
1      10     13     24      15     66      72
Grade
2      11     11     21      12     68      77
Grade
3      11     10     21      18     63      71
Grade
4      10     11     20      17     70      72
Grade
5       5      7
Note: Based on single-year data self-reported by the schools
Source: BEMIS School Census, 1990



49
Table 2
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Utilization of Classrooms
(Provincial Government schools only)
No. of schools with:
One classroom per teacher                    2619    (36%)
More than one classroom per teacher          1488    (21%)
(classrooms probably under-utilized)
Less than one classroom per teacher          3092    (43%)
(some classes probably shelterless)
Total schools:                               7199   (lC0)
Source: BEMIS School Census, 1990



50
Annex 3
Table 3
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Provision of Basic Facilities
(Provincial Government schools only)
=  = onqu         Primary           Middle          Nigh            } Total
No. of Prov. Govt. Schools:                                2329               4044           j 571              255                7199
r__________________________________________________ _      1100%               100l o  jloot     100%             10o               100%
Prov. Govt. schools whih hhave
a. Government building                                     621                1864              455             209                3149
27%               46%              o80r             82%                44%
b. Sufficient classrooma 1/                                836                1321              94              45                 2298
36t               33t               16%             low                32%
c. Additional rooms 2/                                     46                 102               93              84                 325
2t                3%                16%             33t                St
d. Toilet                                                   61                238               71              85                 455
3%                6%                12%             33%                6t
e. Hater                                                   407                729               174             151                1461
17%              lt8               30%             59%                20t
f. Electricity                                             232                465               129             124               950
10%               IIt               23%             49t                13t
g. Storage 3/                                               54                122               44              71                 291
2%                3%                at              28%                4i
1/ On average, no more than 40 students per classroom
2/  On  or more of: Laboratory, Principal's room, Office,
Staff romn, Drawing room, Other room
3/ A store room OR at least one closet per grade
Source: BUlIS School Census, 1991



51
Annex 3
Table 4
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Primary Teachers in Balochistan
(Provincial Government schools only)
Girls' Schools                                           Boys' Schools
l               ~~~~~~In Quetta  Outside Quetta         Total            In Quetta       Outside Quetta           Total
Total Primary     25,246    42%      34,614    58%     59,860    100%      39,175    12%    279,155   88%    318,330   100%
Enrollment
Total Teachers     878      52%      1,402    48%       2,280    100%       1,145    17%      12,136    83%     13,501    100%
Trained:         664               532               1,196               569               5,581              6,420
(76%)             (38%)       _      (52%)              (50%)      _       (48%)              (48%)
Untrained:       214               870               1,084               576               6,286              6,861
(24%)             (62%)              (48%)              (50%)              (52%)              (52%)
Source: BEMIS School Census, 1991



52
Annex 4
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Balochistan Education Management
Information System
(BEMIS)
1.     BackQround:  The Balochistan Education Management Information System
(BEMIS) was established to improve the inadequate education data collection
and reporting procedures of the Department of Education. It was included as
one of the management components of the USAID supported Primary Education
Development Program, in coordination with the UNDP sponsored National
Education Management Information System (NEMIS) in June 1990. It was then
agreed that USAID and UNDP would provide the required hardware, software, and
technical assistance to operationalize the system province-wide, while the
Government of Balochistan through the Department of Education would provide
necessary office support, staff and facilities.
2.     Objectives:  Four general objectives guided the implementation of
BEMIS:
A. Providing the Department of Education with an EMIS capable of collecting
and processing education data. The BEMIS will compile lists of all
registered schools under categories of administration, gender, level of
school, etc. It will use individual schools as the unit of analysis
within a relational database structure, and report on several hundred
items in the categories of enrollment, school administration, condition
of buildings, teachers, and facilities.
B. Building the capacity of the Department of Education to sustain and
further develop the information system with local resources and
government staff.
C. Establishing EMIS capabilities in several key locations at the
provincial level, and at each divisional and district headquarter in
Balochistan. To date 7 of 48 BEMIS computer cells have been established
and 8 more are in advanced stages of implementation.
D. Designing and implementing a Financial Management Information System,
initially for the Director of Primary Education, but capable of
expansion up to the secretariat levels and down to the divisional and
district level.
3.    The first general objective above has been satisfactorily accomplished.
The second is only partly covered: if all foreign funded technical assistance
were to be suspended today, BEMIS would probably only survive with limited
functions for collecting and reporting raw education statistics, utilizing
computer programs and automated procedures. The third objective is behind



53
schedule and the forth objective is still under design and can not continue
without strong technical assistance.
4.    Present Status:  BEMIS has central facilities and a system of six
additional operational computer sites and is recognized by the Department of
Education as the single authorized government agency for data collection and
publication of the Annual Education Statistics Book of the Director of
Education, (Schools). Currently the second computerized Annual Education
Statistics Book is being completed, and basic education data are now available
with a reasonable degree of reliability for the years 1990 and 1991.
Procedures have been established for coordinating data collection from over
7500 schools at the beginning and end of every school year, and for the
validation and computerization of this data. An end of the school year School
Census is scheduled for October. However, the information system is still
under development, its operational components are still to be consolidated,
further factions related to the utilization of data are still to be
established, and therefore the system as a whole is still fragile.
5.    System DeveloDment:  In addition to regularly reporting basic education
statistics to support administration, policy and decision-making within the
DOE, BEMIS requires sustained technical and financial support to develop local
capabilities to maintain and expand the system, as well as to translate data
into administrative and planning procedures capable of affecting policy design
and decision-making processes. System development includes the
institutionalization of systematic data collection, production of reliable
planning and management information, the strengthening of administrative
infrastructure through the establishment of financial and monitoring systems,
and the expansion of existing computer sites to include the remaining
Provincial level cells as well as Divisional and District Based cells. To
build local capabilities for maintenance, expansion, and utilization of the
system, a strong permanent training component is required for different level
offices.
6.    Staff Reauirements and Organizational Structure:  The following
organizational structure is recommended in the proposal document for the
integration of BEMIS and PEP II:
Alreadv Sanctioned
Post               Grade           of Posts # of Posts filled
Computer Operator       16                10            3
Computer Assistant      11                10            5
Total                                     23           10



54
The total technical staff for a fully operational BEMIS including the
sanctioned posts above are:
Post                  Grade Recommended  # of Posts reauired
Deputy Director BEMIS        18                 2
Asst. Director BEMIS         17                  4
System Trainer              17                  2
Data Analyst                16                  2
Computer Operator           16                 41
Data Supervisors             16                  2
Accountant                   16                  1
Assistant Operators         11                 41
Assistant                    11                  8
Clerk                         7                 4
Driver                        4                  6
TOTAL                                          113
7.    The proposed staffing include the requirements for the operation of the
BEMIS Center plus a Policy, Monitoring and Evaluation (PM&E) section, an
Information Resource Center under PM&E and 5 provincial level, 10 divisional
level, and 24 district level BEMIS cells.
S.    Long-Term and Short-Term Consultant Reauirements:  Due to the current
lack of technical capability in the DOE, long-term and short-term
consultancies in the form of foreign and local technical advisors and
consultants are required for the BEMIS to continue and to expand. The
requirements for long-term consultants are as follows: Two long-term
consultants are required on a full time basis for a minimum of 2 or 3 years
beyond September 1992 for the development of the Policy, Monitoring, and
Evaluation section of BEMIS and the development of the Financial Management
Information System requires a long-term Pakistani specialist.
9.    In light of the difficulties and delays associated with the appointment
of Government personnel to required posts, BEMIS should have the capability
and resources to cover the functions of vacant posts with short-term
consultants, Pakistani specialists, and locally contracted personnel until
permanent staff is sanctioned and appointed.
10.   Local Training:  Training must be considered a built-in permanent
function of BEMIS. To cover this function a permanent training facility with
related hardware and peripherals for a minimum of 20 trainees, is required.
The minimum equipment requirement for this facility is as follows:
12 386 computer systems with vga monitors
6 LQ printers with data switches
1 data display
1 Overhead projector
1 Networking software and accessories
Adequate supply of training materials and photocopy capacity



55
11.   The target group for training can be divided by level and type of
training. For computer operators and assistants there should be one basic,
one intermediate and one advanced computer training course per year. For
staff involved in data collection and validation should receive training at
each data collection period (twice a year). For staff using data at decision
making levels in the DOE there should be one training program in data analyses
and utilization per year.
12.   Foreign Training:  A short term study tour to countries with
similarities to Pakistan which have developed successful EMIS's (e.g. Egypt
and Jordan) is advisable for senior BEMIS staff (grade 17 and above). It is
also recommended that two BEMIS computer operators that have completed a BEMIS
advanced training program should be offered short term computer training
abroad.
13.   Eouipment:  In addition to the USAID provided hardware, computer
equipment is needed to cover 14 unforeseen sites for the newly created
Districts and Female District Education Offices. A center capable of
compiling research studies (both from PM&E and elsewhere), computer hardware
and software literature as well as technical and specialized publications, is
required. A minimum of 6 vehicles is required when BEMIS reaches its full
operational stage.
14.   Operation and Maintenance:  An operations component to cover cost and
replacement of consumables (paper, stationery, ribbons, toners, etc.) must be
built into the BEMIS. Service and maintenance contracts should be awarded for
facilities and equipment.
December, 1992



BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Public Expenditure on Education Between 1982-83 and 1992-93
(Constant 1984-85 million Rupees)
------------------------------------------   SIXTH PLAN   ----------------|--------  SEVENTH PLAN  ------------------I------------------------------------|
1                                1992-93   IRcte of  Rate of Rate of  Rate of
Actual Expenditurcr              I        Actual Expenditures      budget    larowth,  growth. growth   growth
1983-84 1984-85 1985-86 1986-87 1987-88 11988-89 1989-90 1990-91 1991-92 allocationl6th Plan 7th Plan FY89-92  FY84-92
GOBALOCHISTAN PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
Development Expenditure               735    1057    1291    1354    1602 |  1743    1724    1801    2430          2567 |   21.51    10.21    11.71    16.111
Recurrent Expenditure                2003    2202    2704    3274    3341 |  3231    3261    3515    3997          4223 |    13.6X      6.9S     7.41     9.011
Total Public Expenditure             2738    3259    3996    4628    4943 J  4974    4985    5318    6427          6791 |    15.91      8.11     8.9S    11.3Z|
GOBALOCHISTAN ECZEJITURE ON EDUCATIOE                                                                                     I                                     I
Develop mnt (Total)                    92      122     172     204      214 |   199      176      194     148       182 |   23.51    -4.95    -9.41       5.11
of which:                                                                  I
Primary Level                         25      38       35      22      56 |    40        42      48       92        97 |   21.91    25.21    32.7Z    17.6BS
Secondary                             28      50       66      31      50 I    76        45      31       34        40 I    15.6S   -15.01   -23.86      2.4ZI
Others                                39       33      71     152      108 |    83       89      115      22        25 I   29.1S   -25.61   -35.81    -6.911
I                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Recurrent (Total)                     277      348     405     535      595      555     590     628      772      1014 |   21.15    16.3Z    11.65    13.7Z|
of which:                                                                                                                                                    I
Primary Level                        118     149      162     190     280 |   282       314     319     413        552 |   24.15    18.31    13.61    16.9Z|
Secondary                             62       73      95    11      115         111  112     137      164       216 |   16.5S    18.25    13.95    12.911
Others                                97      127     148     226     201 |   163       163     172      195       247 |   20.05    11.05       6.21     9.1S|
--- ---- ---- ---- ---I ,                                                                                             I     I
TOTAL EDUCATION                        369      470     577     739     809 |   754       766     822      920      1177 |   21.7Z    11.8Z       6.9S    12.1S|
--            -    -    -    --                                         --   --I--                                                                             I
TOTAL PRIMARY EDUiCATION               143      187     196     212      336 |   321      357     368      505       649      23.75    19.21    12.01    17.11t
-                                             I                                           ~     ~    ~~~                              ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -I   o
Total Public Exp. On Education
as I of Total Publ. Expenditure    13.51   14.4Z   14.45   16.05   16.4ZI   15.25   15.41   15.55   14.31         17.3S1
Development Exp. On Education                                                I                                           I
as S of Total Developent Budget   12.51   11.51   13.31   15.11   13.411  11.45   10.25   10.85    6.11            6.3S1
Recurrent Exp. on Education                                                  I                                            I
as I of Total Recurrent Budget      13.81   15.81   15.01   16.3Z   17.8S1   17.25   18.11   17.95   19.35        24.0%1
Expenditure on Primary Level                                                 I                                           I
as I of Total Public Ezp.            5.25    5.71    4.95    4.65    6.811    6.5Z    7.25    6.91    7.95         9.6B1
as I of Total Education Budget      38.85   39.85   34.15   28.6Z   41.511   42.61   46.51   44.71   54.95        55.1S|
Developmnt Exp. on Primary Educ.                                             I                                           I
as S of Total Development Budget    3.45    3.65    2.71    1.65    3.551    2.35    2.51    2.75    3.85          3.8X|
as S of Total Dev. Educ. Budget    27.55   31.45   20.25   10.61   26.1S1   19.95   24.0   24.85   62.45         59.9X|
as I of Total Primary Educ. Budg   17.71   20.51   17.75   10.21   16.711   12.35   11.95   13.15   18.35         15.0X1
Recurrent Exp. on Primary Educ.                                              I                                            I
as I of Total Recurrent Budget       5.91    6.81    6.05    5.81    8.411   8.75    9.65    9.15   10.35         13.1S1
as I of Total Rcc. Educ. Budget    42.65   42.71   40.05   35.51   47.011  50.71   53.31   50.91   53.51          54.4%1
as Z of Total Primary Educ. Budg   82.35   79.5Z   82.35   89.81   83.3S1   87.71   88.11   86.91   81.71         85.0S1
---------------------------------------------------------------__   --------I___I---- --------- -------- --------- --------
Deflator 1985 prices                  0.96    1.00    1.03    1.08    1.18       1.29    1.37    1.51    1.64       1.73 |
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     F 
Filanmec: H:\PAX\PA240\BALEDUC.PRN                                                                                                                                        0
(D X
I-  If



57
Annex 5
Table 2
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
A comparison of Provincial Spending on Primary Education
Growth
BALOCHISTAN                         1985-86       1986-87      1987-88      1988-89      1989-90       1990-91    Rate
Expenditures on Primary
Education (Rs. 1992 Millions)         191            317          428          460          551        508              21.6
Expenditures per student on                                                                1353.9      1184.1
|prirniary educadon
EXPENDITURES: PRIMARYPlrOTAIEDUCATION
Balochistan                       0.33           0.38         0.49         0.50         0.53       0.53
NWFP                              0.34           0.31         0.35         0.41         0.44       0.53
Punjab                            0.54           0.50         0.45         0.48         0.50       0.52
Sindh                             0.46           0.44         0.43         0.47         0.48
EXPENDITURES: PRIMARY EDUCATION/TITALPROVINCIAL BUDGET
Balochistan                       0.04           0.06         0.08         0.07         0.10        0.10
NWFP                              0.09           0.08         0.10         0.10         0.10        0.12
Punjab                            0.11           0.10         0.11         0.13         0.13       0.15
Sindh                             0.12           0 10         0.09 |       0.11         0.12
Annex 5
Table 3
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Ratio of Primary Education Recurrent Spending to Recurrent Spending on:
|BALAISTAN                                       1985-6|  1986-87    1987-88 |  1988-89 |  1989-90 J 1990-91
Total education                                     0.33       0.38        0.49        0.50       0.53      0.53
Health                                              0.71       0.80        0.95        1.10        1.20     1.31
Economic services                                   0.15       0.24        0.33        0.45       0.48      0.47
Other services                                      0.14       0.18        0.28        0.32       0.36      0.36   1
Infrastructures                                     0.30       0.47        0.66        1.20        1.05     1.03
Total current expenditrs                      1     0.04  1    0.06        0.08                   0.10      0.1



58
Aq5
Table 4
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Recurrent Expenditures on Primary Education - Balochistan (1992-93 budget).
Total MOE        Per student    Per student      % of per student
EDUCATION                          expenditure      expenditure     expenditure        expenditure
EXPENDITURES                       (Rs. million)       (Rs.)       (US$ Equi.)
Salaries and Allowances               692.7            1388.1          55.53             96.5%
Furniture & school supplies            9.0              18.1           0.72               1.3%
Textbooks and Publications             1.8              3.6            0.15              0.3%
Maintenance and Repairs                2.1              4.2            0.17              0.3%
Travel, Transportation                 1.5              3.1            0,12              0.2%
Utilities and communication            5.1              10.2           0.41              0.7%
TATS                                   5.5              11.0           0.44              0.8%
Sub-total                             717.8            1438.4          57.54             100.0%
INDIRECT EDUCATION EXPENDITURES
Administration & Overheads             n/a              n/a             n/a
Teacher training                       60.4            121.0           4.84
Sub-total                              60.4            121.0           4.84
TOTAL                                 778.2            1559.5          62.4
.                                                                                              ..



59
Annex 0
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Enrollments based on Ulization of EBdfng and New FacUIds
1961-2                                                              TOTAL
Ba"line  192-W3  190344  199446  196-06   1990-07  1907-06 INCREAS
New FacilIIes
-Boys Schools                         0         0         0    14866      7908     8713      06       40470
-GIrls Schools                        0         0         0    18475    17568     19313    20405    72u20
Total now facilites                   0         0         0    30340    25478    28025    29480   113290
Increased Utlizaton - Exlslng FcIlIte
-BoysSchools-            10190        0         0    61140    61140    61140    20360           0   203600
-GirleS  hools-           1386        0         0    12222    12222    12222       4074         0    40740
Total IU - Exiging Facilies           0         0    73362    73362    73362    24454           0   244540
Incr"sed Utilzaon - New Fciliies
-Boys Schools                         0         0         0        0      2707     5472       46    16677
-Girls Schools                        0         0         0        0      1615     3802      566      10665
Totl IU - New FacilIies               0         0         0        0      4322     6974    14067    27363
Total Boys                       336183   338183   309323   475328   547083   661647   500130   200047
Total Girls                       90467    90457   102679   130376   161780   168          214702   124246
TOTAL                            428640   428640   602002    6704   70683   770316   613633   351093
..        a                * -  -           *     -  ...........=...                            .   . ..
Populadon 4-0
-Boys                            690794   713236   7345U   760240   7971    0254   83280
-Girls                           6160    637067   68262   67907   70176   723802   746233
Total                            1307402  1360293  1394720  1440237  1485757  1532056  1579092
Parficipation rate
-Boys                              49%      47%       64%      63%       70%       72%      72%
-3irbs                               16%      14%       16%       19%      23%       20%      29%
Total                                33%      32%       36%      42%       48%       50%      52%



60
Annex 7
Table 1
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Condruoton Tawgb and Number of Podts Required
Total
CONSTRUCTION                    1903404       1694-46      109546-       190967       1097-46       Clasrooms
girls  boys  girls  boys  girls  boys  gils  boys  girls  boys  girls    boys    Toal
-Construction of New Community Multgrade Shools
AnnuaiDevelopmwntPban              0    70       0    6o      0    85    30    s0    40   120          70    415       485
Interatonal Dev. Aeow.           100      0   160       0   10      0   180      0   120       0    720        0      720
Asian Delpment Bank               as            65           20                                       150       0       150
ToWt                              165    70   225    60  10    86   210    10   160   120    940    415               1355
-Construction kw bdEsng Shelterless Schools
Annual Development Plan            0    40       0    40      0    46       0    50      0    50        0    225        225
Internatonal Dev. Assoc.          40      5    568    U5   125    76   104    60   112    50    439    36e             796
Tota                              40   125    58   125   125   121   104   110   112   100    430    881               1020
-Additional Regular Clasrooms
Annual Development Plan            0   109    20   101    20   120    20   149    20   189             80    6es        748
Interntonal Dev. Aseo.            75    50    so    50   106    66   140    e6   150    66    660    285               836
Total                             76   159   100   151   126   185   160   214   170   244    630    963               1583
-Renovation of Clasrooms
Annuai DevlopmontPlan              0    50    20    50    20    50    20    60    20    6o             80    270        360
lnternanaonl Dev. Ao.             38    70    48    00    90   146    90   133    90   133    366    571               927
Tota                              38   120    68   140   110   195   110   103   110   193    436    841               1277
-Open new schools (rented building)
Annual Devokpment Plan           100   200   100   200   100   200   100   200   100   200    500   1000               1500
Tota                             100   200   100   200   100   200   100   200   100   200    500   1000               1500
-Open Now Mosque Schools
AnnualDevebopmentPlan                   117           117          117           117          117       0    585       585
Total                              0   117       0   117      0   117       0   117      0   117        0    585       568
Consluoton/Penovalon per yer
-ADP                                   269           291          340           409          499    230   1578        1808
-IDA                                   461           571          708           772          710   2065   1212        3277
-ADB                                    a6            e6           20             0            0    150                150
Tot  oonulructed                        792           927         1126          1181         1209   2445   2790        5236
Total nw schoos, rnted building         300          300           300          300           300    500   1000        1500
TotalMosquoochools                      117           117          117           117          117             585       685
TOTAL                                  1209          1344         154S          1569         1626   2945   4375       7320
Tchwr Poets Required             340   646   425   523   406   57   470   611   430   681   2070   2963               5023
TOTAL                            an            963          992          1081         1111
S*.SS**                             l mam .....  wamm*  mamma mamma mamma .. .........  m a .. .       . 



61
Annex 7
Table 2
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Distribution of Classroom Construction During Program Period
Yer                  ADP       IDA         ADB        TOTAL        ADP       IDA      ADB
1993-4                269       458          65         792        34.0%    57.8%      8.2%
1994-5                291       571          65         927        31.4%     61.0%     7.0%
1995-6                340       766          20        1126        30.2%     68.0%     1.8%
1996-7                409       772           0        1181        34.6%     66.4%     0.0%
1997-8                499       712           0        1211        41.2%    58.8%      0.0%
TOTAL                  1808      3279         150        5237       34.5%     62.6%      2.9%
Annex 7
Table 3
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
EstImated Number of Sanctioned Teacher Posts Needed Annuaily
(based on constructlon and opening of shelterless schools)
Year   Female          Male        Total
1993-4       340         546         886
1994-5       425         528         953
1995-6       405         587         992
1996-7       470         611        1081
1997-8       430         681        1111
TOTAL        2070        2953        5023
Annex 7
Table 4
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Proposed Financing of Increnantal Posts
IDA                    GOB
Year      LC       Teachers    F  LC       Teachers
1993-4       200         589         500         317
1994-5       200         500         500         953
1996-6                   400         100        1192
199-7                    200          50        1200
1997-8                                          1200



62
iULIC OF WHITM                                             X 7
.LOCNIIT   PutmY   RUWTIU P6041                                     -
UTAIL C  TC                                        TeIe S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .......  .......... ............... ....................... ......  ........ .....  ....... .....  ....... .....  ...... .............. ..........
Type      Liht    tinit/                         ----Oistribution of  untitie  .---          Total Loral FoelvTottl
of        of    Totat sa.                                                                ..        of  Be"  Be"  Base
IrpJt     Inrpt   Cost           Im_rms            1995  194  1995  19    199 "?  199611 999  Irput Costs Costs Costs
........   .....  ................. ...... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....                                  on
1  STENITKNINT I   TNE INfTITTION.AL FrLXM
1.1 Strengthening the Pr1m_ry Education Olrectorate
...................................................
L/T Follow  */month    6.0 FlLowmhipsp:Sc gE   Ado       0    24    48   4U    24       0     0    144      0   864   664
S/T Follow a/month    6.0 Study Tour                     0    20    20    20    20      0      0     80     0  40   480
LT Consult  Wjsucth   15.0 chief Technlcal Adviser       0      6    12    12    12     6      0     48   106   612   720
T Consult  *meonth   1.0 0 r9Mization Deloport           0      3     3     3     3     0      0     I2    32   153   165
ST ConsuLt *Jonth   18.0 n Oqoont rd Trainins            0      4     4     4     2     0     0      14     0    84    84
LT Loe Cones omonth    2.0 Fin nes/AdIiVroc Specl        0    24    24    24    24    24      0    120      0   720   n2
LT Loc Cons *hcnth    1.0 Plonning/Devope nt/Ace         0    36    36    36    36    36      0    180      0  1000  1060
Local Trsin *month    2.0 In-country Followship         0    12    12    12    12      0     0      48    91     5    96
LT Loc Cons m/ onth    2.0 NL Cen truction Irl1 rU       0    12   12    12    12    12       0      60   120     0   120
Equilpmnt S Spred  300.0 Offie Eopt                      OX  1001    On    OS    01    Os    OX   100X   60   240   300
Equip 01   % Sproed   30.0 Equipcant 06K                 O0  1001  1001  1001  1001  1001    OX       01  128    23   150
VehicLes     unit     16.0 VehicLes: 4 iAeelc            0    14      0     0     0     0      0     14    75   149   224
Veh OIX     unanl      1.6 Vehlel* OM                    0    14      0     0     0     0      0      OX   19      3    22
Vehicles     unit      1.6 Vehicle: Motorcycles           0   10   150     0     0     0      0    300   160   320   480
Furniture   packae     5.0 Furniture: 22 new DOs         0    12    10      0     0     0     0      22   105     6   110
Sof twre   S pro d    100 Boolk/m_ ta.                   OS   25S   251   2SX   251    OX    OX   1001   30    70   100
saltries    anual    65.2 Incr Sal:Office DirPrld    0.0   1.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0      1    65      0    65
Satlries    *nuel   355.2 Iner Sal:Dlf(mele/ftm)       0.0   0.5  0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0        0      1   35S      0   355
Sataries    mmiit      1.2 SLeries Teachers            0.0   769  O56   405   470 430.0        0  010  3492        0  3492
Saeries    r/year      1.6 Incr Sal/Loornin Coordi        0   20    200     0     0     a      A    400   640      0   640
slaeries    n/year     2.2 SatLriee/AOEO       e          0    60    20     0     0     0      0  oO    176        0   176
1.2 Edication Nanoemnt Inforeation Syctes
..... ...... ...................... ................................
S/T F.llow  *S enth    6.0 Study Tour MIS                 0     4     0     4     0      0     0      a     0    48    4
Local Train n/month    1.0 LL Staff Trainer               0    24    24    24    12     6      0     90     0   540  s5o
LIT Fellow  o/month    6.0 Fellowship Pkc Info  l-t       0     6    12     6     0      0     0     24     0   144   14
LT Conrult  *emonth   15.0 T e icatl dvier                0    12     6     0     0     0      0     16   41   230   270
Local Train r/month    2.0 NL Staff Trainer               0    12    12    12    12    12      0     60    18   765   763
ST Conrult a/month   18.0 Stm Analyst                     0     6     6     0     0      0     0     12    32   153   16S
ST Consult  /month   180 0s_tm  prforf                    0     3     3     0     3      0     0      9    24  115   139
ST Consult  r/onth   10.0 Co pter _ ppino                 0     1     2     3     3      0     0      9    24   115   139
Local Train nJmmnth    1.0 Staff trelnmr:NIS              0    12    12    12    12    12      0     60    57      3    60
Equfpcant   packaeo   150.0 Computer hard/aoftware        0     1     1     1      1     0     0      4   120   480   600
Equip ON   nnuAl    15.0 Equipeent 0N                     0     1     2     3     4      4     0      ox  179    32  210
Vehicles     unit      16.0 Vehicle                       0     2     2     0     0      0     0      4    21    43    64
Equip 01K    na nl      1.6 Vehiclo OIN                   0     2     4     4     4      4     0      O   24      4    29
Oper/Recurr wnum      60.0 Incr _ Non-sal oper cost   0.0       1     1     1      1   1.0     0      OX  265    1S   300
Vehicles     unit     24.0 Van FloeDe                     0    13    13     0     0      0     0     26   206   416   624
Equip ONK   anual      2.4 VYn FleaDts  6    A            0    13   26    26    26    26              01 239    42   281
1.3 Pltnrwng, teserch wn  Evaluation
...... ................. ......................................
S/T FelLow  r/month    6.O Study Tour                     0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0      0     0     0
L/T Fetlou  a/month    6.0 NU Mmu Pion nino (1)           0    12    12     0     o      O     a     24      a   I" U  I 
L/T Fellow  /month    6.0 NS Educ Tt/lwmirt (1)           0    12    12     0     0      0     0     24      0   14    14
LT LLo  Ca elmonth    2.0 IL Locel Conultent              0     0     6     6     4      4     0     20      6   255   261
Vehicles     unit      8.0 Vehicle  OCDu                  0     2     0     0      0     0     0      2      5    11    16
EquipON    anmiul      0.8 VehileI K O                    0     2     2     2      2     2     0      01    7      1     6
Vehicles     unit       1.6 Notorbike-WC                  0    12    12     0      0     0     0     24    13    26    38
Equlp ON    annul      0.2 VehicleO I                     0    12    24    24    24    24      0        s 11S      3    17
LT LocConsa  /month    2.0 NL local Eduation  ptst        0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0      0     0     0
Lowal Con   /month    2.0 ttudies/Surveya                 0    24    24    24    24    24      0    120   20       0   2.0
1.4 Policy Studios n  Project Preparation
,...................................................
Local Con   r/mcnth    1.0 Studles/Survoys                0    36    36    36    36    36      0    160  10       0   160
Software   % Spprd  150.0 Software/reforene * tt          OX   251   251   25%   25X   0a      0    100X   45   105   150
OermlopmentX Spread  500.0 Prein_sat mnt Study (P9F n     O    10X  201           20X     301    0    100X  150   350   500
.......................................................................................................................
Component cukr-totol                                                                                      75SK  W99  16579



63
11. IWWWIN6 AMU8 AM EWJITY
2.1 GIrLs Scholarship Pragre
LT Lac Caon Wnmanth    2.0 Scholarship Adinistrati         0      12    12         12    12     0      60   120      0   120
STConsult ainmmth   13.0 Prlwete letor Speclst             0      3     3     3      2     I      0     12    32   153   185
LT Lao Cona/moWnth    1.0 SclooLarship Aclnistrati         0    12    12    12    12    12       0      60     9   765   774
Davvilopmint  Spread   40.0 Evaluation FosaIdtIovVSc       01   201   101   301   301   102    0    1001   12    28    40
Incentive. pupfLlyr  0.048 Fea stdits:vcuch*rs             0   600   600  1200  1200  2400       0   6000   286       0   216
2.2 School Construction Progres
Furmiture    unlt      1.20 Fumniture Nultigrade Cie       0   225   303   361   344   234        0   1515  1727    91  1818
Furniture    unilt     2.51 Furniture Regular Ctasar       0   233   268   405   428   428        0   1762  4196   221  4419
Buildings    unit      20.9 Sheltriess:Pgrade ctsrm        0   125   143   201   164   164        0    795 14123  2492 16616
Bu Ild 06K   wrLu.L    1.45 School ftech  mintenane        0   125   267   468   632   795        0      0X13315      0  3315
Building.    unit       8.0 SheLtertess Regular cLur       0   106   136   235   223   223        0    927  6304  1112  7416
Build 01K   usualI    0.1 SchooL facit mintwnmce           0   106   246   461   704   927        0      01  296      0   296
BuiLdings    uniit      2.0 SheLtrle*s:Lstrin* unfts       0   100   100   100   100   100        0    500   850   150  1000
Build 06K   amust       0.0 FaciLities mlntwnmic           0   100   200   200   200   100        0      01   24      0    24
BuiLdings    unilt     20.9 New Schools: Cinoty Mgra       0   100   160   160   180   120        0    720 12791  2257 15048
BuiLd 06K   anwuAl      1.5 School facit mintwumic         0   100   260   420   600   720        0      01 3045      0  3045
BuiLdings    unit       2.0 Mew Coty:Lstrine wilts         0   100   160   160   180   120        0    720  1224   216  1440
BuiLd 01K   srnjal      0.0 Facilities mintuwice           0   100   260   420   600   720        0      01   63      0    63
Buildings    unit       8.0 AdditioraL Classrooms          0   125   130   170   205   205        0    835  6346   334  6680
BuiLd O6K    rvua L     0.1 Faciitites maintewitce         0   12    255   425   630   835        0      01  272      0   272
Local cons % spread 1968.0 ALE: desflnlconst smi           01   201   201   201   201   201    0    1001 1968         0  1968
Comporant sub-total                                                                                         57007  7820 64827
1I1. TEACHER TRAINING IMPROVEMENT AND INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS
Nss3.3u====.usn.s=. =s=.=us...........nas.sn
3.1 Teacher Training
UIT Fellow  almonth    6.0 Study Tour: NgradsInstr          0     a     0      0     0      0     0      8a     0    48    48
LT Consult  a/month   15.0 Tchr Training Adeiwio            0     6    12    12    12       6     0     48   108   612   720
ST Consult  Wa/mnth   18.0 ir.ervicellsutigradin Trai       0     2     4      4     4      2     0      16    43   204   247
LT Cronult  rn/onth   15.O Tchr Trg Couw"eDevelpmt          0     0     0      0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0
ST Consult  rnmonth   18.O Tchr Trg Cow"s.Devslpot          0     2     4      4     4      0     0      14    38   179   216
Local Train rn/onth   0.50 in-country Tmilng Skills         0   100   100   100   100   100       0    500   238    13   250
Inst. Hot   package   10.O Library materials                0     6     5      0     0     0      0      11    33    77   110
Inst. Nat   package   10.0 AV materials                     0    11     0      0     0     0      0      11    33    77   110
Locat Trafnmift        0.04 Inservice Tchr Trg              0 14500 15300 16300 1830        0     0  6440   2447   129  2576
Software   I Spread  400.0 Trg Notts: Irdeav Prog           01   251   251   251   251    01    0    1001  120   280   400
Local Trainusilt       0.30 Learning Coordinators/Of        0   300   300      0     0      0     0    600   171       9   180
ST Consult  rn/month   18.0OTchr Training Evel.Desig        0     0      0     0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0
Local Train  /mionth   0.07 Nobile/Famlse Tchr Trg          0     0  1500  1500  1500   700       0   5200   356    19   374
Software   % Spread   30.0OTrg Natls:NobilseProg            01    01    O  0%  01    0      01    0       01    9    21    30
Local Train rvual    10. Seminarslc/earenf      e0                1      1     1      1     1     0       5    48      3    50
Vehicles     unilt     16.0OVehicles                        0     0      0     2     0      0     0       2    II1   21    32
Eq.iip OAK   arwmal     1.6 Vehicle OBK                     0     0      0     2     2      2     0       OX    a8     1    10
Equfipmnt   package   15.0Ooffice equipmet                  0     0      0     0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0
Equfp OlK    wualt    1.5 Equlpom.ntO6K                     0     0      0     0     0      0     0       01X   0      0     0
Oper/Recumrt arrAlt   12.0 lnorm  non-saL oper coat   0.0         0      0     0     0   0.0      0    0.0      a0     0     0
LoccTrain  teachers   0.07 Teacher TrgJCraeh Prog           0  4000     0      0     0      0     0   4000   266    14   280
Software   % Spread   80.0 Training MateriaLs               01  1001    01    01    01    01    0    1001   24    56    80
3.2 Instructioral matorisls Developmnt
Textbooks  % Spread    0.0 Textbooks: Kachhi                01   191   20%   201   201   211    0    1001       0      0     0
Textbooks  % Sprea  3657.4 Textbooks: Grades 1-5            01    61   11%   221   231   371    0    1001 1097  2560  3657
Furniture   pwacka     20.0 FurnitursiBTB/S1I)TC                  1     0      0     0      0     0       1    19      1    20
Buildings  % Spread  100.0 IR.furbishing:BTBIBINTOC         01    01    01    01    01    01    0         01   85    15   100
Equipaunt   package   22.5 Equipaant:BTB/BIISTC             0     1      0     0     0      0     0       1I    5    16    23
EquipO0lK    minrIe      2.3 Equipont 06                    0     1      1     1      1     1     0       0  110       2    11
Vehicles      wilt     16.0 Vsiictes;ITB/3INITC             0     2     0      0     0      0     0       2    11    21    32
Veh OIK      wvAmI      1.6 Vehicle O6K                     0     2      2     2     2      2     0       01   14      2    16
LTCanm It W/m,nth   15.O Tetbook Developmaint               0     6    12    12    12       6     0      48   106   612   720
ST Cornul t  Wmonth   18.0 Textbook PubtfshirngJPrao        0     4     4      4     4      4     0      20    54   255   309
ST Conoutt  rn/month   18.0 Teting &Evaluntion              0     0     2      2     0      0     0       4    11    51    62
LIT Fellow  Wimonth    6.0 Productn/desipi MA               0     6    12      6     0      0     0      24     0   14    144"
ST Consult  /mon th   1U.O Distribution Sytm 0esi           0     2      0     0     0      0     0       2     0    12    12
S/T Fellow  a/month    6.0 Study tow                        0     0      0     0     0      0     0       0     0      0     0
Textbooks   package    5.0 Suipttextbook collectn           0   1.0   0.0      0     0      0     0       1     2      4     5
Bultdings  I Sprea   400.0 BTB BuiLding                     01  1001    01    01    01    01    0    1001  340    60   400
Builtd Ol    amwAl      6.OFactilitiesmaIntsnanc*           0     1      1     1     1      1     0       01   27      0    27



64
ST Consult  m/month   18.0 Suppla_ntory Material S       0   1.0     1     1     0     0      0      3     8    30    46
ST Com ult /ionth   18.0 TA support                      0     0     0     0     0     0      0      0     0     0     0
Equ1ipont   package    5.0 WProc.s equipmt               0     1    0      0     0      0     0      1     1     4      5
EquipOIK  w*u l    0.5 Equipmnt 0ON                      0     1     1     1     1      1     0      01    2     0     3
DvetlopmntX Sprad   50.0 Authorship                     0   201   20X   20X   201   201    0    1001   15    35    50
Supp Mats. X Spread 2000.0 Supplementary Readers        0   201   201   20X   201   201    0        1  600  1400  2000
Oper/R curr *nuol    50.0 Distribution costs             0     1     1     1     1   0.5      0    4.5   214    11   225
Tch. Guide. packag   750.0 Supply Teachdrrs Guide.       0     0     1     0     0   0.0      0      1  225   525   750
Oper/RecurrX Spreod 1500.0 Distribution costs            01    01    01   331   331   331    0    1001 1275   225  1500
uitd 04l X Sprad   22.5 Warehouse 0 l                    0     0     01    01    01    eX    0       01    0     0     0
Local Cons X Spread  120.0 AlE dign/const spn            01    01    01    01    01    0      0      OX  120     0   120
Equipa.nt  X Spred   30.0 Equ.ipmant: District Ware      01  1001    01    01    01    01    0    1001    6    24    30
EqJpp 01N  1 Spread    3.0 Warehouse  qifp 0N           01  1001  1001  1001  1001  1001    0       01   13     2    15
Furniture   packag    0.02 Storag  lockers for achools    4400 4400        0     0     0      0   8600   125     7   132
Oper/R curr *nnal   0.002 Furn distribution costs        0  4400  4400     0     0      0     0   8800    13     1    13
Component sub-total                                                                                     8349  7791 16140
IV. EKEFICIARY PARTICIPATION
4.1 Beneficiary Participation Developo nt
ST Consult rnmonth   18.0 B*nefciary Particip/Edic       0    12    8      6     4      0     0     30    81   383   464
Local Cons 55Ffed   500.0 Contract to Bn. Part Un   0.01 40.01 30.01 20.01 10.01    0         0      1    75    13    8
ST Consult */month   18.0 Progr   wvaluation             0     0     0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0     0
Local Train m/onth    0.2 Community Dv workshopc         0     0     0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0
S/T Fellow  m/month    6.0 Study tour: Snf Partic        0     0     0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0
Vehicles     wiit      8.0 Vehiclos                      0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0     0      0
Equfp OIN   *nntul     0.8 Vehiclec O&                   0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0X    0     0      0
Equipaent   packag    10.0 Office quipasnt               0     0   0.0     0     0      0     0      0     0     0      0
Equip 0N   *nnu lI    1.0 Equipment OIK                  0     0     0     0     0      0     0      01    0      0     0
Softuwre    packae     2.0 Reference/AV m*terials        0     0   0.0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Local Core  u/month    1.0 Comeanity DOv Workers         0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Salaries    u/month   0.26 NO: Incr tech staff           0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Salaries    J/month   0.12                        0      0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Slaries    u/month   0.12 01V: Incr  upport staff        0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Oper/Rlcurr *nnau l    1.2 Incra _on-sal oper cost       0     0     0     0      0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Oper/Recurr */year     3.2 Com _worker:p dim             0     0     0      0     0     0     0      0     0      0     0
Coponant sub-total                                                                                       156   395   551
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                                                                                     73101 24997 98096



65
ANNEX S
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
School Selection Criteria
The sites for schools to be provided and/or rehabilitated under the IDA
financing would be selected in accordance with the criteria below. Bach year,
the GOB would select the sqhool sites according to the following priority
order, sites according to the first priority must be exhausted before moving
to second priority, and so forth.
PRIORITY 1:
(a)   New Girls' Schools (about 700 schools, each with one 40-capacity
multigrade classroom). Each school site would also be provided
furniture, storage for books and materials, a latrine block with
2 cubicles, water facility, and boundary wall. The school sites
that satisfy this criteria would be places where all the
following requirements are met:
(i)   the community has affirmed its commitment to support
girls' education,
(ii)  the community has provided a site for the school,
(iii) there are at least 15 school-age girls (boys are
encourage to attend but not included in the 15), and
(iv)  a teacher is readily available for the new school.
(b)   Existing "Shelterless" Girls' Schools and Classes (780
classrooms). About 168 existing "shelterless" girls schools
which do not now have their own appropriate facilities would be
included in this group. These schools would be provided the
appropriate number and combination of multigrade and single-grade
classrooms (to accommodate the projected female student
population for the year 2000), classroom furniture, mini-library,
water facility, latrine block and boundary wall.The qualifying
schools would meet all the following criteria:
(i)   have at least 25 students enrolled,
(ii)  a school site acquired for the new buildings, and
(iii) a teacher(s) in place.
PRIORITY 2:
Existing Girls' Schools with Inadecuate/DilaDidated Facilities
(835 classrooms).    About 96 existing dilapidated girls' schools
with at least 25 girls and a teacher in place are expected to



66
meet this criteria. The inadequate physical facilities would be
replaced/rehabilitated as needed. Furthermore, additional
classrooms (the appropriate combination of multigrade and single-
grade types) to accommodate the projected female school
enrollment by the year 2000 would be provided, together with a
complete complement of furniture, mini-library, latrine block,
water facility and boundary walls.
PRIORITY 3:
"Shelterless" Boys Schools with Girls Enrolled (1,620
classrooms). The schools that meet this criteria (about 400
sites) would have a present enrollment of at least 50 students
and includes girls. In addition, selection would be based on
merit considerations, including among others, community
commitment, teacher availability, and the availability of a
school site. The selected schools would be provided the
appropriate number and combination (multigrade and single-grade)
of classrooms (to accommodate the projected enrollment of boys
and girls in the catchment area up to the year 2000), furniture,
mini-library, water facility, latrine block and boundary walls.
The schools forming this group are expected to benefit twice as
many boys as girls in the process.
PRIORITY 4:
"Shelterless" Boys Schools. By the start of the fourth year of
the project, should the annual in-depth evaluation of the program
indicate that there would be freed Credit funds under the project
resulting from efficient implementation and utilization of
resources, shelterless boys schools would be attended to. The
schools meeting this criteria should have at least 50 students
enrolled. Selection would be based on merit considerations,
including among others, community commitment and the availability
of a school site. The selected schools would be provided the
appropriate number and combination (multigrade and single-grade)
of classrooms, furniture, mini-library, water facility, latrine
block and boundary walls. Shelterless boys schools. initially
classified as Prigrity 4. may move up to Priority 3 provided
these schools accommodate girls also.
4.    Selection Process:
The Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) will be responsible
for the selection process. In establishing new schools, the Human
Resources Survey would be the source of the initial list of receptive
communities where new girls' schools are to be provided. These
communities would appoint a school committee which would be involved in
all stages of school planning and establishment. The beneficiary
communities would be responsible for (a) identifying potential female
teachers for recruitment, (b) guaranteeing a minimum of 15 girls for
initial enrollment, and (c) guaranteeing a site for the new school. If



67
a female teacher with a minimum of grade 8 pass qualification cannot be
found, a male teacher (including retired teachers) acceptable to the
community could be hired on a temporary basis until a suitable female
teacher is recruited.
In "non-receptive" communities identified under the Human
Resources Survey, a demand generation program would be initiated by the
DPE through existing community development programs such as the BSRP,
CIDA and UNICEF programs. If the demand generation program is
successful in these non-receptive communities, some localities could
move into the category of "receptive" communities and become qualified
for inclusion among the places to be provided new girls' schools in
accordance with the selection criteria described above.
Identification of the other schools (shelterless and dilapidated
girls schools, and shelterless mixed and boys schools) will also
proceed in accordance with the selection criteria described above.
Eligible school sites should be identified by DPE well in advance of
the start of construction such that the complete requirements in each
site and the corresponding set of building plans, specifications and
bill of quantities are completed prior to inviting tenders.



68
Annex 9
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Private Education Foundation and Scholarship Experiment
Private Education Foundation
The objectives of the Foundation are to provide developmental support
and recurrent resources to disadvantaged private education institutions. The
structure of the Foundation as it currently stands is outlined under the legal
document currently passing through the Balochistan legislative process.
However, rules and regulations need to be developed for the Foundation to
ensure that the resources are directed toward the established objectives.
These regulations should outline such issues as the conditions under which
development funds will be granted to private institutions; the conditions
under which resources will be provided to support existing private
institutions on a recurrent basis; the operational rules of the Foundation;
and the structure of the management and administration of Foundation. IDA
would finance technical assistance to support this effort.
Scholarship Experiment
The objective of this program is to support the development of the low-
tuition charging private education sector in Divisional and District
headquarters with the goal of providing quality education to a small number of
disadvantaged children. These children will feed into the currently
established Government model middle and high schools. The second advantage of
this program will the provision of education at a lower unit cost than within
comparable Government schools, thus expanding the number of children the
Government can educate with a limited investment.
The program will provide a scholarship for six years of primary
education to eligible applicants to attend a low-fee charging private primary
school. These scholarships will be paid to the schools on the basis of
reported enrollment and attendance data as recorded by the representative DEO.
A scholarship will not be given for a repeated year. All students who begin
the scholarship will receive financing until completion of primary cycle.
Only students entering at Kachi and Grade 1 can receive the scholarship.
Criteria for School Eligibility. A number of criteria must be
established to determine what type of school might be eligible to advertise
for students under this program. Scholarships will be initially issued only
to schools within Divisional headquarters and at a later date to schools in
district Headquarters. The following criteria were established for school
eligibility for participation:
(i) the school must be located outside of the Quetta Municipal Corporation
boundaries and within the Municipal boundaries of Divisional and District
Headquarters; (ii) school must meet minimum standards of facilities,
instructional materials and teacher qualifications so as to be recognized as a
society by the Industries Department and a school by the Education Department;



69
(iii) the school must employ at least one female teacher; (iv) the school must
have at least two rooms; (v) the school may not charge more than 150 Rupees a
month tuition fee. Monthly fees for extracurricular materials, uniforms etc,
must not exceed 50 Rupees; (vi) the school will be responsible for the costs
of uniforms, instructional materials and other incidental costs of scholarship
students.
Each school will receive a monthly cheque from Education Department for
the amount equivalent to the number of enrolled scholarship students
multiplied by the scholarship of 150 Rupees per month. This cheque will be
deposited in a local Bank to an account established by the schools. Deposit
of check will be recommended by the DEO or SDEO after they have verified
enrollments.
Criteria for Children eligible for scholarship. Only a limited number
of scholarships will be available in each Division and District. Therefore
only a few of the many eligible candidates will receive the scholarship. A
decision must be reached to determine the choice of children to receive the
scholarship. Children will be chosen by a committee comprising of the
following: the DEO or SDEO; School Principal; Chairman of the District
Council; and Chairman or member of the Town Committee. This Committee, along
with the eligible schools, are responsible for ensuring that there is
widespread knowledge of the experiment. Decisions must be based on the
following criteria: (i) targeting families with an estimated income of up to
3,000 Rupees per month; (ii) only girls will be eligible for scholarships. If
a vacancy should arise due to drop-out or migration, it will be filled from
the pool of girls.
Administration of the Scholarship Experiment. The position of Deputy
Director Administration (Schools) will be responsible for the oversight of the
experiment, supported by a full-time local private education advisor and one
support staff. This will be maintained until such time as the experiment is
incorporated into the operational mechanism of the Private Education
Foundation.
Implementation Schedule
The experiment would be established as a pilot with funding for six
years of operation to enable one cycle of students to complete primary
education.
Year 1: Advertisements would be placed in the papers of three Divisional
Headquarters asking for school applications. Schools will be chosen by the
program administrators and DBO of the respective Divisions (Quetta [Pishin],
Sibi and Turbat). 200 scholarships will be available in each Division (600 in
total).
Year 2: At the end of year one IDA will finance a formative evaluation of the
program and if considered appropriate expanded to the other three Divisional
HQ with equal number of scholarships in each (600).



70
Year 3: During program mid term review, the expansion of the program will be
assessed to determine if the experiment should be continued. The scholarships
could be increased to 400 in each Division.
Year 4: After further evaluation program may be extended to District level.



71
Annex 10
Page 1 of 7
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Balochistan Education Materials Development
Introduction
School characteristics determine the most effective form of
instructional material to be used in primary schools. In Balochistan the
following problems exist at the school level:
a. A majority of schools are single teacher, multi-grade environments,
requiring special teacher management techniques and specially developed
instructional materials.
b. The active involvement of pupils in learning is often very
restricted. While the single teacher is occupied with one class the
remainder of the pupils are inactive. Thus pupil efficiency in the
classroom is low.
c. There is a considerable age spread in primary schools, which creates
problems of achieving satisfactory interest levels for all pupils.
d.  There is considerable linguistic diversity.   At least three
provincial languages are used in addition to Urdu. This leads to
communication problems between teachers and pupils and increases the
cost of book provision.
e. A large number of primary school teachers are untrained. They are
short on content knowledge, pedagogical background and organization and
managemenc skills.
f. Effective textbook life in the classroom is short. Estimates suggest
that most textbooks are in very poor condition within 3 to 6 months of
issue. Many pupils have to repurchase books more than once during a
school year. Equally, many poorer pupils have to do without textbooks
altogether when they have been destroyed or lost. The problem is a
function of harsh classroom environments and poor physical production
specifications of the books.
Given these conditions, the most appropriate intervention is the
development of a new generation of specially written and designed pupil
centered core textbooks which will replace the existing textbooks. These are
conceived to be independent learning guides directing the pupils to activities
and supplementary materials without the constant assistance and intervention
from the teacher. It is also proposed that the textbooks should have upgraded
physical production standards to ensure greater durability in the classroom.
There are four areas to be addressed by the program: (a) the content and
design of the pupil centered instructional materials; (b) the development of
limited but carefully selected supplementary reading materials collections to
support pupil centered learning and increase access to reading; (c) the



72
Annex 10
Page 2 of 7
training of teachers in the use and management of the new materials and the
management of a new approach to teaching and classroom organization; and (d)
the logistics and costs of the production, distribution, usage and storage of
(a) and (b).
Core Text Development
The Balochistan Textbook Board (BTB) is responsible for the development,
production and publication of all textbooks for Grades 1 - 12. The textbooks
are written by teams of authors contracted by BTB, approved by the Curriculum
wing in Islamabad and specified by the BTB. Individual books are then
contracted out to the 31 commercial publishers who are currently registered
with the BTB for this purpose. Books are either delivered to DEOs or sold
through retail booksellers. The BTB calculates that 80W of the books are
supplied free.
BTB has a staff allocation of 6 subject specialists (editors) to handle
a projected list of 140 titles. Of these 6 editors only 4 are currently in
post. The BTB is thus understaffed. The BTB staff also lack some professional
skills and this is reflected in the BTB's request for training and technical
assistance for a wide range of publishing skills. The BTB has difficulty in
finding good writers for many of the local languages and has no specialist
language staff for editorial purposes. The BTB has no experience in the
development and writing of materials for multigrade instruction.
The development of new, pupil centered texts does not involve the
creation of a new curriculum or the development of new content requirements.
It does require the presentation of the existing curriculum and content in a
style which will encourage a far greater level of pupil responsibility and
involvement in learning. The Primary Education Curriculum Reform Program
(PECRP) has already developed new content approaches. The new textbooks should
build on this resource of content reform and should now add the element of
process reform.
The new textbooks will be developed by teams of writers selected by the
BTB working in close association with the Instructional Materials Development
and Training Cell (IMDTC) and with the staff of the Curriculum Bureau. There
will be intensive micro testing and formative evaluation during the writing
and development process based on prototype units.
The schedule for introduction of the new pupil centered texts is based
on an initial year (1993) of training, preparation, research and development
during which agreed scope and sequence and methodological and pedagogical
approaches will be determined. This will be followed by a year (1994) of
manuscript writing and development involving the design, lay-out and
production of prototypes for testing and evaluation. In 1995 teachers will be
trained in the use of the new books and the new methods and a pilot study
carried out in a limited number of schools.It is currently envisaged that the
first of the new core, pupil centered texts will be fully introduced on a
province wide basis in 1996. The exact timetable however will depend upon
detailed schedules to be finalized after the initial year of research and
development.



73
Annex 1 0
Page 3 of 7
Program support. To meet the need for multigrade materials, it is
expected that, at a minimum, 45 new core texts must be developed. The
particular skills needed to develop pupil centered texts designed for
independent learning are not available in Balochistan and the following is
proposed to sensitize curriculum, writing and publishing personnel to the
approaches to this kind of book:
i)    A 5 person study tour to the Escuela Nueva program in Colombia
(estimated cost $25,000)
ii)   The establishment of a sample copy library of pupil centered,
independent learning materials from all over the world (estimated
cost $5,000)
iii) A one year exercise to scope and sequence the existing curriculum
from Kachi to grade 5 to guide the writing work needed to produce
a new generation of materials (financed from existing PED program)
iv)   the development of small, sample units of material which can be
used in the crash teacher training programs to demonstrate the use
of independent learning techniques (financed from existing PED
program)
There is also a need to re-examine the grade 5 leaving test to assess
its impact on the development of student centered learning techniques. This
should also be undertaken by the existing PED program.
Supplementarv Readers Collections.
Supplementary readers are essential to the pupil-centered study process.
Because no such readers currently exist in Balochistan schools the following
areas need to be addressed: (a) topics and titles need to be identified that
meet both the interests of Balochistan children and the requirements of the
curriculum; (b) sources for the readers need to be clearly identified,
including the use of reprints, translations and adaptations, as well as
origination of titles; (c) production standards that allow durability, and
presentation standards that stimulate children's interest must be agreed; (d)
the targeting and sequencing of material supply must be agreed; (e) the
provision of sufficient readers to create variety and a regular source of new
reading material is essential; and (f) the usage and management of the
materials collection by students and teachers must be addressed.
Program support. The program will support:
(a)   four studies to (i) identify topics and target grade levels; (ii)
survey existing Urdu titles & create a reading copy collection for
assessment; (iii) establish presentation and production standards;
and (iv) develop a school management system and handbook
($48,000). These studies will be incorporated into an overall
component design ($12,000).



74
Annex 10
Page 4 of 7
(b)   consultants in design, production and distribution ($365,000)
(c)   procurement and distribution costs of the supplementary materials
($2.0 million)
Teacher SuDDort
Learning modules for teacher upgrading and support have been developed
from the IDA PEP II project. While evaluation reports of these materials
appear to be good they are still in need of detailed revision. The program
will not revise and resupply the existing learning modules but will
incorporate the best of the learning modules into the new core textbooks and
into specially developed teachers' guides to accompany the new textbooks.
Sample lesson plans are currently being developed under the PED. These
provide organizational and management support for teachers and will be a basis
for much of the new core text development.
Teacher training support (including the development and provision of
teacher training materials)for the new textbooks will be developed under the
existing PED and the forthcoming ADB teacher training project will need to
coordinate with these activities.
Program support. The program will support:
a) The provision of free sets of teachers guides to each school to
support the new texts ($200,000)
Production. Distribution and StoraQe
Organization and Management. At present a number of different
organizations are involved in materials development and production for primary
schools in Balochistan. These are: (a) the BTB which produces core textbooks
for grades 1-12; (b) the Balochistan Curriculum Bureau which produces teacher
training materials; and (c) the PED project (USAID) which has produced new
pupils materials in 1992 for the Kachi grade. The PED has also proposed the
establishment of a new Balochistan Instructional Materials Development and
Training Cell (IMDTC).
Proposed program structure.   Under the program proposal the following
roles would be established for the materials development program:
BTB:.
a) Determination of the schedule of textbook development and
publication.
b) Establishment of writing teams.
c) Editing and.preparation of manuscripts.
d) Procurement of publishing services.
e) Procurement of supplementary readers.
f) Distribution
a) Training in writing and development methodology.



75
Annex 10
Page 5 of 7
b) Assistance in design and lay-out.
c) Formative evaluation.
d) Assessment and Criteria Reference Testing.
e) Production of prototypes for assessment.
f) Research, evaluation and recommendations for supplementary readers.
Bureau of Curriculum:
a) Establish requirements for teachers' guides.
b) Establish requirements for teacher training materials.
c) Implementation of all new instructional materials into schools.
d) Liaison with BTB, IMDTC and the new Directorate of Primary Education
on the development of new core texts and teachers guides.
Proposed program support. To enable the respective organizations to
fulfill their allotted functions, the program will support:
(a)   Production costs for the provision of pupil- centered study guides
from 1993-1998($3.61 million)
(b)   New building to house the BTB (estimated $800,00, to be shared
among IDA financing (50%), provincial government (25%) and the
Textbook Board (25%))
(c)   furniture (40,000), desk top publishing facilities and computer
hardware ($75,000), and computer maintenance costs ($5,500 p.a.).
(d)   Technical assistance and training costs
Distribution - current conditions. Distribution of books is reported to
be inefficient with books delivered late and in poor condition. There is
insufficient warehousing at the district, sub-divisional and central level.
The poor packaging of books causes damage in transit from printers to central
warehouse and from central warehouse to DEOs, SDEOs and schools. Inadequate
warehouse management also contributes to loss and damage. Under the current
system, printers deliver books direct to the DE (Schools) as part of their
contract cost. DEOs collect from DE (Schools) using commercial transport with
a budget provided by government for this purpose and SDEOs collect stock from
DEO stores using their own vehicles. Finally, teachers collect from SDEOs when
they come to collect their salary.
The program will support:
(a)   a survey of the distribution system ($20,000). Dependant on the
results of this survey the program would be prepared to fund the
following:-
(b)   support to DEO and/or SDEO storage as recommended by the
distribution survey ($1,300,000).
The warehouse system development and training will be undertaken by the
proposed distribution consultant. Packaging requirements will be explicitly
included in publisher contracts.



76
Annex 10
Page 6 of 7
Storage in schools. Schools in Balochistan lack adequate storage for
the preservation of classroom resources.   Furthermore, a number of
interventions are likely to increase the need for storage capacity: (a) a
policy to keep basic texts for grades 1 and 2 and Kachi in schools overnight;
(b) the use of supplementary readers on a regular basis in schools; (c) the
increase in supply of learning modules, lesson timetables and lesson plans and
a new and revised teaching aids kit. Classroom storage may be provided by
built-in storage units or steel lockers already used ir some schools. The
larger type of locker is 6 x 4 x 1.5 feet and holds up to six shelves. A
school of 50 children will require approx 8 running feet of shelving for
supplementary readers and a further 4 running feet for core textbook supplies
(i.e. 3 shelves). This should leave 3 shelves for other classroom based
supplies. Provisions are made in new multigrade classroom building design to
accommodate storage for classroom sets of textbooks, supplementary readers and
teacher support materials.
The program will provide:
(a)   about 8,800 storage units at a unit cost of $150 ($1,320,000) and
the cost of their distribution ($66,000)
LanguaQe Policy
A multi-lingual policy has serious cost-implications for all elements of
this component. Currently, costs are estimated for the provision of books in
all subjects and grades in one language. If the materials have to be made
available in 3 or 4 different language editions rather than in just one
language the total quantity of materials required by the system in terms of
numbers of copies printed and provided should not be affected greatly.
However the unit costs of each individual language edition will increase
substantially. However writing, editing, typesetting, film and plate costs
would be significantly increased. At this stage the multiplication factor for
all production costs is estimated at 1.6. Costs will also be indirectly
raised through other educational issues (teacher training, teacher mobility,
teacher confidence, the introduction of Urdu as a second language, etc.).
Sustainability and Cost Reduction.
Cost of textbooks, teachers guides and supplementary reader provision is
a major concern of government which is anxious that overall per capita costs
of materials provision should not rise significantly (by more than 10 to 15%
on a real cost basis) as a result of the program. It is inevitable that during
the program period there will be an increase in costs as new materials and new
methodologies are developed, assessed and refined. At the same time the
program will constantly review cost reduction possibilities with the objective
of stabilizing per capita costs at not more than 15% above current costs on a
real cost basis. Strategies to be reviewed, tested and assessed on a pilot
basis during the program period may include:
a)    Extending book life in the classroom and thus achieving cost
amortisation over more than one year (this will require an
increase in physical production specifications because existing



77
Page 7 of 7
effective book life is probably no more than 3 to 6 months with
existing specifications).
b)    Reducing raw materials costs by ICB for paper or by achieving duty
free supply of paper.
c)    Reverting to a monolingual language of instruction policy.
d)    The development of reduced levels of subsidy for commercially sold
books.
e)    The introduction of modest levels of cost recovery via the
possibility of heavily subsidized loan fees for parents for
textbook and supplementary readers.
Benefits.
The classroom efficiency of the current system is low. A majority of
pupils are actively engaged in learning for probably no longer than an hour a
day in rural, single teacher, multigrade schools at present. The development
of a new learning process based on pupil centered learning and the development
of textbooks and teaching methodologies to support this would aim to
significantly increase the number of hours of active learning of each pupil.
This in turn will lead to higher levels of performance, greater pupil and
parent satisfaction with schooling and reduced drop out and repetition rates.
The overall efficiency of the system should improve and per capita costs of
education should decrease.
Impact Evaluation.
The program will support an annual impact evaluation to determine
increases in academic achievement (based on reading levels and mathematical
skills), reading frequency, active learning hours, attendance, enrollments,
drop outs and repetition rates etc so that the effectiveness of the investment
in instructional materials can be assessed and monitored. The results of the
impact evaluation should be used to determine future policy and investments
prior to the termination of the program ($100,000).



78
Annex 11
Page 1 of 7
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
Director of Primary Education (DPE)
1.0   Academic Leadership
1.1   Identifying major issues and constraints of primary education in
the province.
1.2   Reviewing existing policies of primary education development and
proposing new policy options with reference to identified
problems.
1.3   Inspiring and leading the process of qualitative changes in
primary education through innovative approaches and pilot models.
1.4   Planning and overseeing continuing professional development of
managers of primary education at different levels and other key
staff.
1.5   Monitoring national and international initiatives in the field of
primary education.
1.6   Monitoring, disseminating and rewarding outstanding performance by
primary education staff.
1.7   Coordinating, supporting and servicing difference providers of
primary education (public, private, municipal, local, NGO).
1.8   Catalyzing informed support from public representatives in
development policies and practices.
1.9   Organizing provincial/regional seminars/workshops on current
issues of primary education.
2.0   Planning and Development
2.1   Catalyzing and overseeing the development of a provincial data
base of primary statistics and the concomitant school maps.
2.2   Establishing achievable long-, medium- and short-term goals and
priorities of new investments as well as sustainability of
existing physical infrastructure.
2.3   Establishing school location criteria and overseeing their
enforcement.
2.4   Identifying and addressing the needs for quality inputs along with
physical ones.
2.5   Overseeing and guiding the preparation of annual development
plans, monitoring their implementation and making mid-term
adjustments, where indicated.
2.6   Identifying implementation constraints and providing
guidance/assistance in removing them.
2.7   Arranging and distributing ADP and non-ADP resources.
2.8   Coordinating donor inputs in primary education development.
2.9   Catalyzing planned community involvement in the affairs of primary
schools.
2.10 Commissioning special studies on aspects of primary education
development.



79
Annex 11
Page 2 of 7
3.0   Organization
3.1   Overseeing the organization of the Directorate of Primary
Education in line with identified functional areas and providing
staff support at all levels.
3.2   Catalyzing the development of individual annual work programs for
key managers and other staff.
3.3   Establishing smooth channels of two-way vertical as well as
horizontal communication between various sections/units/offices.
3.4   Widely and repeatedly disseminating individual job descriptions,
establishing performance criteria, monitoring staff performance
and enforcing accountability.
4.0   Coordination and Communication
4.1   Establishing formal and informal communication links with
Curriculum Bureau, Textbook Board, Directorates of Secondary
Education, Federal Curriculum and Primary Education Wings and
Directorate of Civil Works.
4.2   Preparing and disseminating annual status reports of achievement
towards predetermined goals and priorities.
4.3   Communicating with Health, Population and Public Health
Engineering Department on the implementation of Social Action
Program.
4.4   Preparing Progress Reports on donor-assisted projects.
5.0  Supervision
5.1   Supervising the work of Regional Additional Directors, DPEOs and
SDPEOs.
5.2   Inspecting at least 25W sub-ordinate offices annually.
5.3   Inspecting at least 5' of primary schools annually.
5.4   Introducing and enforcing among field supervisors new supervisory
parameters directed towards academic support and problem-solving,
rather than fault finding alone.
5.5   Inspecting the efficacy of new school construction and school
maintenance practices.
6.0   Administration
6.1   Selecting, recruiting, promoting, and deploying district and sub-
district managers of primary education including DPEOs/SDPEOs.
6.2   Recommending the appointment of Regional Additional Directors.
6.3   Writing tbe annual performance reports of Additional
Directors/Deputy Directors/DPEOs.
6.4   Laying down and overseeing de-centralized and flexible procedures
for teacher recruitment and deployment.
6.5   Participating in all high level meetings on issues of primary
education.



80
Annex 11
Page 3 of 7
7.0   Financial Management
7.1   Overseeing the preparation of annual budgets and budget
distribution.
7.2   Overseeing the proper maintenance of accounts and financial
statements.
7.3   Having annual audit reports prepared, and submitted to concerned
quarters, as well as following up on the removal of financial
irregularities.
7.4   Ensuring adequate budget allocation for non-salary expenditures
and repairs and maintenance funds for primary schools.
7.5   Catalyzing additional resources mobilization for primary school
development through non-government and private sources and local
bodies.



81
Annex ll
Page 4 of 7
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
Regional Additional Director of Primary Education (RADPE)
Broad Responsibilities
To be responsible for the regional development and management of primary
education, under the overall guidance of DPE.
1.0   Planning and Development
1.1   Developing a regional data base for educational statistics and
indicators and servicing/supporting the provincial data base.
1.2   Translating provincial goals, priorities and targets into
regional/district development schemes and projects.
1.3   Overseeing the enforcement of established criteria for school
location planning.
1.4   Coordinating and overseeing implementation of approved schemes and
projects.
1.5  Assisting DPE in the development of new policy initiatives towards
improved participation and narrowing of regional/gender gaps in
balanced development.
1.6   Catalyzing community support in primary education development,
with focus on demand generation, reduction of pupil attrition and
additional resource mobilization.
1.7  Collating teacher development needs from the supervision reports
of field supervisors.
1.8   Liaising with Curricula Bureau/Institutional Materials Development
Cell/Teacher Resource Centres in teacher/materials development
work.
2.0   Supervision
2.1   Guiding and overseeing the development of individual annual work
programs for DPEOs/SDPEOs.
2.2   Developing and enforcing measurable performance criteria for
DPEOs/SDPEOs towards improvement of educational indicators.
2.3   Touring districts and sub-districts to supervise/inspect education
offices at least once annually.
2.4   Inspecting at least l01 of primary schools annually, with focus on
academic support to teachers and schools.
2.5   Inspecting at least 40% of schools under construction.
2.6   Supporting the development of primary schooling in the private
sector.
3.0  Administration
3.1   Recommending posting/transfers of DPEOs.
3.2   Deploying/transferring SDPEOs within own region and recommending
such staffing changes on provincial basis.
3.3   Writing annual performance reports of DPEOs and countersigning the
reports of SDPEOs.
3.4   Participating in meetings.



82
Annex 11
Page 5 of 7
3.5   Ensuring smooth information flow through established channels.
3.6   Recommending rewards to staff/teachers for outstanding
performance.
3.7   Liaising with Divisional Directors of Secondary Education on
issues of common interest, particularly staffing.
3.8   Monitoring/servicing budgetary allocations to districts.
3.9   Overseeing proper utilization of invebtments and recurrent
budgets.



83
Annex 11
Page 6 of 7
JOB DESCRIPTIONS
District Primary Education Officers (DPEOs) (M&F)
1.0   Planning and Development
1.1   Catalyzing the emergence of a district-specific focus on issues
and needs of primary education development in individual
districts.
1.2   Developing and continually updating a district data base of
educational statistics including enrollment/participation/
progression/drop-out rates, teacher availability and teacher
profiles, physical infrastructure, demographic indicators and
trends, pupil achievement indicators, inventories of community
support and initiatives and investment and recurrent budget
figures.
1.3   Advising RADPE/DPE on district-specific imbalances among
educational indicators and needs and suggesting priorities of
disaggregated actions.
1.4   Developing district development schemes and projects within
overall priorities and targets indicated by DPE/RADPE and with due
regard to striking a balance between expansion and consolidation
needs.
1.5   Providing priority attention to shelterless and damaged/physically
inadequate schools.
1.6   Evaluating the potential of mosque/community/home schools in
consultation with community leaders and incorporating them in
individual schemes and projects.
1.7   Monitoring and reporting implementation status of schemes and
projects and identifying and removing implementation constraints.
1.8   Mobilizing private sector/local government institutions in primary
education development effort.
1.9   Identifying teacher/educational materials development needs and
assisting RADPE in developing regional profiles of deficiencies
and needs.
1.10 Involving public representatives and communities in informed
planning decisions.
2.0  Administration
2.1   Preparing district and sub-district annual work programs in
consultation with SDPEOs and under the guidance of RADPE.
2.2   Recommending postings/transfers of SDPEOs.
2.3  Recruiting/promoting/deploying/transferring ASDPEOs/Learning
Coordinators.
2.4   In collaboration with SDPEOs recruiting/deploying/transferring
primary school teachers.
2.5   Writing the annual performance reports of ASDPEOs and
countersigning those of Learning Coordinators.
2.6   Recommending rewards for outstanding performance for



84
Annex 11
Page 7 of 7
SDPEOs/ASDPEOs and deciding such cases for LCs and teachers.
2.7   Participating in district/divisional/provincial meetings.
2.8   Preparing/distributing and overseeing the utilization of
investment/recurrent budgets.
2.9   Procuring school furniture and educational materials.
3.0   Supervision/Academic Support
3.1   Inspecting sub-divisional education offices annually and issuing
detailed reports with suggestions for improvements.
3.2   Supervising SDPEOs/ASDPEOs/LCs in their inspection/academic
support functions.
3.3   Inspecting at least 20% of primary schools annually.
3.4   Holding scholarship examinations.
3.5   Allowing flexible timetables for rural schools.
3.6   Ensuring adequate supplies of educational materials in schools.
3.7   In consultation with field supervisors, arranging classroom
support to teachers.
3.8   Liaising with Curriculum Bureau/Instructional Materials
Development Cell/Teachers Resource Centres in teacher/materials
development work.
3.9   Monitoring school construction/maintenance work and conducting
periodic field visits.
3.10  Writing off broken school furniture and arranging replacements.
3.11  Overseeing the use of learning modules in the classroom situation



85
Annex 12
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Beneficiary Participation in School Establishent
A Beneficiary participation experiment began during program preparation
under funding from USAID PED. This annex summarizes the process developed
under the pilot program in which communities established community beneficiary
groups and participate in school establishment and monitoring of the quality
of education of their children.
Coordination Unit: One finding of the experiment was the need for a
Community Coordination Unit consisting of community workers to serve as
liaison between beneficiary groups and the Department of Education. This Unit
has the following objectives: a) identify and mobilize communities interested
in educating their children (especially girls); b) provide advice to these
communities to enable them in turn to support and inform the education
department as to the need for schools and materials; c) identify or create and
then strengthen the involvement of local NGOs in the process of promoting
primary education; d) and coordinate donor support to create the environment
for education development by focusing donors on existing local NGOs.
Beneficiary Participation Process: The Community Coordination Unit
achieved these goals by developing the following methodology to establish a
school. A potential female rural teacher is identified through a combination
of Human Resource Surveys, applications from DRO office, recommendations of
Government representatives and officials, and direct requests from individuals
and communities and NGOs. The identified potential teacher is interviewed to
ascertain her interest in teaching and community involvement and is then
tested. Agreement is reached with the teacher that she will: a) open a school
on a trial basis for two to three months to measure the success of the school;
and b) commence community motivation and training.
A village school committee is then formed after community meetings and
extensive discussions. Committee members are elected by 75% of parents in the
village in presence of DEO and field workers. All committee members must have
their own children in the school. No member of the Committee can serve on
other village groups. No two brothers or people belonging to the same compound
can be selected in the committee. This school committee, on behalf of the
village, agrees on responsibilities regarding the support for the school.
The school is then started on a trial basis until the teacher undertakes
the Mobile Female Teacher Training Program which is held during the following
times: 15 December - 15 February or 15 June - 15 August. If at any time, the
visiting field worker finds no teacher in the school, or an unacceptably low
enrollment rate during the trial period, the teachers name is withdrawn from
the application for MFTTP until such time as the village can reconfirm its
commitment to the process. On commencement of MFTTP, the School Committee
formally requests an appointment post and school sanctioning from the DEO.
The teacher receives her letter of appointment on graduation from the MFTTP.
The School Committee is provided with support from the Community Coordination
Unit in overall monitoring and management of the school to ensure enrollment
is maintained or increased.   Final site selection for the school construction



86
is recommended by the school committee, after the school has functioned
successfully for at least one year.
Functions of the Coordination Unit: The unit's role in this process is
as follows: to train communities to effectively communicate with the Education
Department and GOB; to identify, train, support and monitor community workers
from NGOs, donor agencies and Government field-level officers (ADEO and SDEO
and DEO) involved in community mobilization; to coordinate between the
Government, donor agencies and the school committees; to develop monitoring
indicators for the program; docum,ent and publish the experience. Based on
this assumed role, the unit should be developed as an autonomous unit that
would be recognized and supported by the Government but not controlled by
conventional procedures. To ensure effective communication and coordination,
it should be located within the Director of Primary Education at the
Provincial level.
Recommendations For Establishing Girls' Schools: In support of the
process of community mobilization, and to ensure that girls schools will be
established, a Government working group developed the following
recommendations for long-term policy changes:
a) relaxation of lower age for recruitment to 14 years and upper age to
40 years, subject to non-availability of qualified female teachers in the
particular village;
b) relaxation of qualification from Matriculation to Middle Pass subject
to non-availability of Matriculates in the particular village. Middle Pass
female teachers must Matriculate within 3 years. After three years, a notice
indicating failure to pass the Matriculation examination will be served to the
teacher concerned which will lead after one year to termination of employment;
c) the new Primary Schools and posts will be sanctioned and established
in the villages which are processed through the Community Coordination Unit by
the relevant DEO according to the follcwing priorities i) in new girls schools
ii) in the classrooms added to existing shelterless girl's primary schools
iii) community involvement in poorly functioning existing girl's schools iv)
mixed (Mosque Schools) v) boys' primary schools;
d) the government should seek to apply the same process for boys'
schools that is tested by the unit for girls' schools;
e) temporary buildings free of rent and cost for opening of new Girl's
Primary Schools shall be provided by the Village School Committee until a
building is recommended by the Unit and approved by the Government;
g) mobile female teacher training program for these girl's schools
should continue and be legalized and be pre-requisite for appointment as
Middle Pass teachers;
h) community participation may also be included in the ADB Girl's
Community School Project. This Project will also need community workers
trained by the Unit.



87
i) special awards for village school committees/ schools/ teachers/
students/ outstanding administrators from Education Department (at District
and Divisional level) should be established.
j) a male teacher can be appointed in villages where female teachers are
not available based on the recommendation and approval of the School
Committees.
k) re-orientation of the exicting opportunities and financial resources
to promote female education should be organized for the Divisional Education
Officers (Female).



88
Annex 13
Table 1
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
PLANNING CHECKLIST FOR PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
Symbols for Participants
GOBED: Government Balochistan Secretary Education Department
DPE-PM: Director Primary Education/Project Management
BEMIS: Balochistan Educational Management Information System
DCW: Director of Civil Works
BTB: Balochistan Textbook Board
BCE: Bureau of Curriculum and Extension
IDA: International Development Agency
GOBSI: Government of Balochistan, Secretary of Implementation
GOBSF: Government of Balochistan, Secretary Finance
A&E: Private Architectural and Engineering Firm
TAT: Technical Assistance Team / Consultants
IMDTC: Instructional Materials Development & Testing Cell
DESCRIPTION OF ITEMS                                            PRIME                   ASSISTANCE                  ADVICE t CLEARANCE
RESPONSIBILITY
I - GENERAL CO-ORDINATION AND ADMINISTRATION
1.01 Preparation operation/admin. guides                        DPE-PM                  BEMIS,DCW,BTB,BCE,IDA,    GOBED, GOBSI
GOBSF, A&E, TAT
1.02 In-service/fellowship admin training                       DPE-PM                 BEMIS,DCW,BTB,BCE,IDA,    GOBSI
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____ __   ____ ___ ____ ___ A SE,  TAT
1.03 Preparation of regular progress reports (physical    DPE-PM                       BEMIS,DCW,BT3,BCB,IDA,    GOBED, GOBSI
and financial)                                                                         GOBSF,A&E,TAT
1.04 Preparation of annual plan                                 DPE-PM                 BEMIS,DCW,BTB,BCE,IDA,    GOBED, GOBSI
______ _____ _____ ______ _____ _____ _____ ______ _____ _____ _____ ASE,  TAT
1.05 Technical assistance program                               DPE-PM                 3EMIS,DCW,BTB,BCB,IDA,    GOBSI
1.06 Fellowships program                                        DPE-PM                 BEMIS,DCW,BTB,BCE,IDA,    GOBED
____ ____ ____ ____ TAT_                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
1.07 Preparation SNP/EDP one year budget                        DPE-PM                  BEMIS,DCW,BTB,BCE,IDA,    GOBBD, GOBSI,
________ _______  A&E,TAT                     GOBSF
1.08 Monitoring program management                              DPE-PM                 BEMIS,DCW,BTB,BCE,IDA,
A&E, TAT
1.09 Monitoring financial/physical operat.                      DPE-PM                 BEMIS,DCW,BTB,BCE,IDA,    GOBED, GOBSI,
_________________       A&E,TAT                     GOBSF
II - CONSTRUCTION
2.01 School mapping (annual up-dated)                           DPB-PM                  BEMIS                       TAT
2.02 Site approval including site engineering survey            GOBED                   DPE-PM                      TAT
2.03 Standard school design and adjustment of standard          AEB                     DCW                         DPE-PM, IDA, GOBSI
to take into account site characteristics identified
in the engineering survey
2.04 Work program for new and  additional classrooms            A&E                     DPE-PM                      DCW, IDA
including bidding documents
2.05 Work program  for rehabilitation primary schools           A&E                     DCW                         DPE PM, IDA
including bidding documents & drawings
2.06 Architectural brief for the Primary Education              DPE-PM                  DCW                         A&B, TAT
Directorate Building (PEOB)
2.07 Architectural brief for the BTB building                   DPI-PM                  DCW, BTB                    A&Z, TAT
2.08 Architectural design for the PBDB                          A&E                     DPE-PM                      GOBED, GOBSI, TAT



89
2.09 Architectural design for the BTB building                 A&I                    DP-PM                       GODED, IDA, GOBSI,
TAT
2.10 Construction procurement program including                ABE                    DCW                         GOBDE, IDA, TAT
preparation of bid documents for construction of
Schools
2.11 Construction procurement program including                A&B                    DPB-PM                      GOBED, IDA, GOBSI,
preparation of bid documents for construction of P3DB                                                             TAT
2.12 Construction procurement program including                A&B                    DPB-PM                      GOBED, DCW, BTB,
preparation of bid documents for construction of the                                                              IDA, GOBSI, TAT
BTB building
2 .13 Furniture and equipment                                  DPB-PM                 GOBSI                       GOBED, IDA, GOBSF
procurement program including
preparation of bid documents for primarv schools
2.14 Furniture and equipment                                   DPB-PM                 COBSI                       GOBED, IDA, GOBSF
procurement program including
preparation of bid documents for the P3DB
2.15 Furniture and equipment procuremnt program                DP3-PM                 GOBSI, BTB                  GOBED, IDA, GOBSF
including preparation of bid documents for the BTB
building
2.16 Bid invitations in accordance with the                    A&B                    DCX                         DPE-PM
procurement programs for construction of primary
schools
2.17 Evaluation and award of bids for primary school           A&B                    DCW                         DPE-PM, GOBSI
construction                                                         _
2.18 Preparation of contracts for signature of primary         ABE                    DCM                         GOBED, DP0-PM,
schools construction                                                                                              GOBSI, GOBSP
2.19 Site supervision program for primary school               DCW                                                DPB-PM, A&B, TAT
construction (single school contracts)
2.20 Site supervision program for primary school               A&B                    DCII                        DPE-PM, TAT
construction (package contracts)
2.21 Conduct of final inspection and issue of final            DCI                    A&B                         DPE-PM, TAT
certificates for primary school construction (single
school contracts)
2.22 Conduct of final inspection and issue of final            ASB                    DClt                        DPE-PM, TAT
certificates for primary school construction (package
contracts)
2.23 Administration procedures including methods of            DPU-PM                 DCW                         GOBSI, GOBSP, TAT
payment, financial accounts and claim procedure for
school construction
2.24 Bid invitation in accordance with the procuremnt    DPI-PM                                                   GOBSI, GOBSF
program for
furniture and equipment for primary schools
2.25 Evaluation and award of bids for furniture and            DP3-PM                 COBSI                       GOBSF
equipment for primary schools
2.26 Preparation of contracts for signature of primary         ABE                    DCl                         GOBDD, DPE-PM,
schools furniture and equipment                                                                                   GOBSI, GOBS?
2.27 Administration procedures including methods of            DPB-PM                 COBSI                       GOBS?
payment, financial accounts and claim procedure for
furniture and equipment
2.26 Bid invitation in accordance with the procuremnt    ABE                          DCW                         DPB-PM, TAT
program for construction of the P3DB
2.29 Evaluation and award of bids for the PID building         A&B                    G0-BED, DPB-PM, DCW,        TAT
GOBSI, COBS?
2.30 Preparation of contract for signature for the             ABB                    DP3-PM                      GOBED, GOBSI,
construction of the P3D building                                                                                  GOBS?, TAT
2.31 Site supervision program for the construction of          ABE                                                DP0-PM, DCM, TAT
the P3D building
2.32 Conduct of final inspection and issue of final            ABS                                                DP0-PM, DCW, TAT
certificates for the PHD building
2.33 Administration procedures including methods of            DPI-PM                                             GOBSI, GOBSP, A&B,
payment, financial accounts and claim proe dure for                                                               TAT
the P D building
2.34 Bid invitation in accordance with the procuremnt    DPI-PM                                                   COBSI, GOBSF
progrm for furniture & equipment for the P3DB
2.35 Evaluation and award of bids for furniture                DPP-PM                 COBSI                       GOBS?
equipment for the P3DB
2 36 Preparation of contracts for signature for the            AUB                    DC"I                        GOB DE  DPI-PM,
|urniture B equipment tor the P3D building                                                                        GCOBSSI  COBS?



90
2.37 Administration procedures including methods of          DPI-PH                GOBSI                      GOBSF
payment, financial aconsand claima procedure for
furniture & equipme&nttonr t:he P DB
2.38 Bid invitation in accordance with the procuremnt    AtB                       DCW                        DPI-PH, STB, IDA,
I program for construction oft he BTB building                                                                 TAT
2.39 Evaluation and award of bids for construction the    ASS                      GODBD, DPI-PH, DCW,        BTEB TAT
BTB building                                                                       GOBSI! GOBSF
2.40 Preparation of contract for signature for the           ASS                   DPI-PM                     GO-BED, DCW, BTB,
construction of the BTB building                                                                              GOBSI, GOBSF, TAT
2.41 Site supervision program for the construction of        A&B                                              DPB-PM, DCl, BTB,
the BTE building                                                                                              TAT
2.42 Conduct of final inspection  nd issue of final          AtS                   DCW                        DPI-PF, BTB, TAT
certificates for the BTB building
2.43 Administration procedures including methods of          DPB-PM                DCW                        BTB, GOBSI, GOBSP,
payment, financial accounts and claim  procedure for                                                          ASS, TAT
the STE building
2.44 Bid invitation in accordance with the procuremnt    DPI-PM                                               BTB, GOBSI, GOBSF
program for furniture & equipment for the BTE building
2.45 Evaluation and award of bids for furniture &            DPI-PM                GOBSI                      GOBSP
equipment for the BTBS
2.46 Preparation of contracts for signature for the          A&B                   DCW                        GOBD, DPB-PM,
furniture & equipment for the STE building                                                                    BTE, GOBSI, GOBSF
2.47 Administration procedures for Zurniture &               DPI-PH                GOBSI                      STB, GOBSF
equipment for the STB building
III- TSXTBOOKS AND INSTRUCTIONAL MATBRIALS
3.01 Establish INDTC                                         DPI-PH                BTB, BCB
3.02 Complete pilot testing of new materials                 IMDTC                 DPB-PH                     BCB
3 .03 Scope and sequence for new materials                   IMDTC                 BTB, BCH                   DPI-PH
3.04 Establish training plan for BTB                         BTB                   DPI-PH, IMDTC
3.05 Establish training plan for BCE                         BCB                   DPI-PM, IMDTC
3.06 Undertake distribution study                            DPB-PH, IMDTC         BCB
3 .07 Prepare Kachi materials to CRC  teage                  IMHDC                 BCH                        DPI-PH
3.08 Conduct writing workshops                               IMDTC                 DPI-PM                     BTE, BCR
3 .09 Conduct design and layOUt workshow                     IMDTC                 DPI-PM                     BTB, BCE
3.10 Prepare set one of new materials                        IMDTC                 BTE, BCB                   DPI-PH
3.11 Conduct formative evaluation of set one                 IMDTC                 BTB, BCE                   DPI-PH
3.12 Implement plan for distribution                         BTE                  IMDTC
3.13 Prepare CRC for set one materials                       IMDTC                 BTB, BCE                   DPI-PH
3.14 Conduct CRT workshops                                  IMDTC                  BCB                        DPN-PM
3.15 Prepar set two of new materials                         BTB, IMDTC            BCH                        DPI-PM
3.16 Conduct formative evaluation of set two                 IMDTC                 BTE, BCB                   DPI-PM
3.17 Conduct research for suppl. raders                      IlDTC                 BTB, BCH                   DPI-PH
3.18 Introduce set one matls. to teachers                    BCB                   IMDTC                      DPI-PM
3.19 Implement set one matle. in schools                     BTE                   BCE                        DPI-PM, INDTC
3.20 Prepare CRC for set two materials                       IMDTC                 BTB, BCB                   DPI-PM
3.21 Prepare set three and four materials                    BTB, IMDTC            BCE                        DPI-PH
3.22 Conduct formative evaluation of sets 3l4                IMTC                  BTE, BCE                   DPI-PM
3.23 Introduce set two matls. to teachers                    BTB                   BCB, IMDTC                 DPI-PH
3.24  Implemnt set two matls. in schools                     BTB, IMDTC            BCH                        DPI-PH
3.2Prepare CRC for sets 3               _ 4 materials        IDTC                  WTm, BC                    DPI-PH



91
3.26 Prepare set S of new materia materials                 BTB                  BCE                        DPE-PH, IMDTC
3.27 Conduct formative evaluation of met S                  IMDTC                BTB,  BCE                  DPE-PM
3.28   Introduce  sets  3  &  4  to                         BCB                   IMDTC                     DPB-PM
3.29 Implement sets 3 & 4 in schools                        BTB                  BCE, IMDTC                 DPB-PM
3.30 Prepare CRC for set S materials                       IMDTC                  BTB, BCB                  DPB-PM
3.31 Introduce set 5 matls. to teachers                     BCB                   IMDTC                     DPB-PM
3.32 Implement set 5 matis. in schools                      BTB                  BCH, IMDTC                 DPB-PM



92
Annex 13
Table 2
Page 1
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Key Indicators
Achievement               SAR                 Current
Last          Current       Estimate    Estimate
Supervision  Supervision  of 100 v    for 100%
Number                  (mm/vv)       (mm/wL)   Attainment  Attainment
INPUTS
Construction
Commun. Schools (720 classrooms)                                                 03/98
Girls Schools
Boys Schools
Exist. Schools (2,500 classrooms)                                        03/98
Girls Schools
Boys Schools
PED Building      (one unit)                                             06/95
BTB Building      (one unit)                                             12/95
Furniture & EquiDment
Commun. Schools (720 classrooms)                                                 03/98
Exist. Schools (2,500 classrooms)                                        03/98
PED Building      (one unit)                                             12/95
BTB Building      (one unit)                                             06/96
Teachers Training
Accelera. Program (8,000 persons)                                        12/94
Inservice Program(18,000 persons)                                        12/97
Mobile Program   (1,900 persons)                                                 12/97
Instructional Materials
Core Text Development (45 units)                                                 12/95
Core Text Distribut. (xxx units)                                                 12/97
Suppl. Texts Studies   (4 units)                                                 12/95
Suppl. Text Distrib.  (xxx units)                                                12/97
Teacher Guides         (xxx units)                                               12/95
Distribution Survey   (one unit)                                                 12/96
Storage Lockers      (8,800 units)                                               12/96
Impact Evaluation       (one unit)                                               03/98
Institution Improvement
Management Strengthening                                                         12/93
Management Training                                                      12/94
Private Education Foundation
Feasibility study (One unit)                                             12/93
Scholarship Program(20,000 units)                                                03/97



93
Annex 13
Table 2
PaQe 2
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Key Indicators
OUTSCOHS
Baseline                                                 Target 1999
Enrollment increase
Girls                    0                                                    93, 100
Boys                     0                                                   243,400
lEnrollment Rates
Girls                    15%                                                    25%
Boys                     49%                                                    70%
Average Dropout Rates
Girls                    22%                                                     101
Boys                     17t                                                     10%
Average Repetition Rates
Girls                    14%                                                      0%
Boys                     16%                                                      0%
No. of children in grade 5
Girls                   5256                                                  25.000
Boys                   26B75                                                  70.000
Student Achievement
Reading
Girls
Boys                  TBD                                                     TBD
Arithmetic
Girls
Boys



94
Annex 14
SLOC1TAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
CON84ULTANCIES
In Ru mUon
Type               Unit       Un                                        Distributon of Quantties       Total Locl Feign   Totl
Of                 of    Total Sees__________                                                           ./Un       m        m
Uni               Inu    ToatBob             4kwoQ. of 1S    Be                                                            1
Unit               hiput   Cost (Ru)         Rumwts            1993 194 1996 196  1S@7 1996 1999 Input Costs Costs    Coss
I STRENGTHENlNQ THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAEWO
1.1 Strengthening the Prlmary Educstln Dicator
ForIgn Consunnnto
LTConsul                    mn/month       376,0 ChiefTeohnicAdv&er           0    6   12   12   12    6    0   48   2.7   163    18.0
ST Consult                   mrnmonth      410.0 Orgnitzaln Developmwnt       3    3    3    3    0    0    0   12  0.8    3.            4.6
STConsut                    mn/month      460.0 Manupment ndTraining          2    4    4    4    0    0    0   14  0.0    2.1           2.1
Locl Consultants
LTLocCons                   rn/month        50.0 FhnJadm     h rProc.speola6ts    12   24   24   24   24   12    0  120   0.0   18.0    16.0
LT LxaCon                   nVmonih         260 Pian./DgvAMothng Ast         16   36   36   36   36   16    0  180  0.0   27.0    27.0
LTLacCons                    m/month        60.0 HLLConetructbnEngle r        6   12   12   12   12    6    0   so   3.0    0.0          3.0
1.2 Educatlon Manaement Information Sntem
Foreign Consultant
LTConsult                   rn/month       375.0 T.ohnb oAdvlar               6   12    0    0    0    0   18   18   1.0    6.7          6.8
ST Consult                   n/month       460.0  6aeAna  et                  a    6    0    0    0    0   12   12  0.8    3.8           4.6
ST Consult                  mn/month       460.0 Symmo Per_ormance            0    3    3    0    0    0    9    9   0.6    2.9          3.6
STConsult                    m/month       480.0 Computer Mapping             1    2    3    3    0    0    9    9   0.6         Z9       3.6
1.3 Planning, Resarch end EvauaIon
Loca Consultants
LT Loc Cons                  nmonmth        60.0 HLL Loc Consulant            0    0    6    6    4    4    0   20   0.0    6.4          6.6
Lool Cons                  rn/month        60.0 StudiSurneys                 0   24   24   24   24   24    0  120   0.0    0.0          6.o
1.4 POlIc Studlo and Proeot Propwaton
Local Consultants
LT Lo Cons                  rnmonth         25.0 SbtodiseSunr                18   3e   36   36   38   18    0  180   4.6    0.0          4.6
!1 IMPROVING ACCESS AND EQUITY
2.1  irts Scholarhlp Prosram
Foreign Consultants
ST Consult                    /monmth      480.0 Priweta Sfetor Spelt         3    3    3    2    1    0    0   12  0.8    3.6            4.6
Lool Consultants
LT Loc Con                  rnmonmth        26.0 Scholarhip Adminatrtn        e   12   12   12   12    a    0   6o   0.2   19.1    19.3
LT Loa Cons                 m/nmonth        60.0  choiship AdminIstan         6   12   12   12   12    a    0   60   3.0    0.0          3.0
Hl TCHR TRNGt IMPROVEMENT AND iNTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL8
3.1 TeaoherTralning
Foreign Consulwtnts
LTConsult                   mn/month       378.0 TeaowrTrainingAdvsr          0    8   12   12   12    6    0   48   2.7   16.3    16.0
ST Consult                  rn/month       480.0 hnarsile/Multlgrade Training    0    2    4    4    4    2    0   16  1.1    5.1        62
ST Conautt                  rn/month       460.0 Tohr Trg Coure oDs Pmn       0    2    4    4    4    0    0   16  0.9    4.6            6.4
IV BBENEFICARY PARTICIPATION
4.1 Bonoflclary Partlopatlon Dblopment
STConsult                    mr/month      410.0  enflcryPa  lp.MEduc         6   12    8    6    4    0    0   36  24.1    11.6    13.9
Loo ICons                    %Sprd    12600.0 ContraottoBon. PortUnlU    40%  20%  20%  10%  10%   0%   0%    1   1.9    0.3             2.2



95
Annex 15
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Procurement Aspects
1.        The civil works of the Program will be packaged for bidding in
packages of at least three to five sites depending upon distance from each other.
The lowest responsive bid will be reviewed including post-qualification of the
contractor. The minimum requirements for the post-qualification of the Contractor
should be advertised with the Notice of Invitation of Tender.   The minimum
requirements are as follows:    (a) the contractor should be in the building
construction business for at least three years;    (b) be financially sound,
minimum total yearly turnover of Rp. 1,000,000;  (c) the contractor should have
minimum plant and equipment as follows: mixer of at least one bag of cement,
vibrator, scaffolding and form-work for at least 1,000 square feet; and one
vehicle;     and  (d) the contractor should employ a foreman with building
construction experience for execution and control of the quality of work under
each contract.
2.        These contracts will be awarded through local competitive bidding with
standard bidding documents approved by IDA.    The Government of Balochistan
should instruct P&D Department to provide updated premium rates on the Schedule
of Rates for each District annually. Premium rates would be as many as necessary
within each District depending upon the location and accessibility of the concern
areas.
3.        DCW should not reject all bids solely because the lowest evaluated bid
was above the official premium for the District or area. However, in case of
substantial increase in the bidder's premium, DCW should refer the case to the
Additional Chief Secretary (Development), Government of Balochistan, for review
and relaxation of upper ceiling of official premium.
4.        The furniture for the schools should be procured through competitive
bidding procedures at the District level following procedures acceptable to IDA.
Technical advice should be obtained for certifying the quality of the furniture
procured, before final payment.
5.        Vehicles and motorcycles shall be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) using the Bank's Sample Bidding Document for Goods.
Few vehicles for the start-up activities of the Program for an amount not
exceeding US$ 100,000 would be procured by local shopping. If ICB procedures are
not followed, the resources allocated for this procurement should be canceled and
the Government of Balochistan will pay for the vehicles and motorcycles with
their own resources.
6.        The paper for the textbooks should be procured by the Balochistan Text
Book Board (BTBB) in annual lots through international competitive bidding (ICB).
BTBB will prepare standard bidding documents following the Bank's Sample Bidding
Documents for Textbooks and Instructional Material. If ICB procedures are not
followed, the resources allocated for this procurement in the Credit Agreement
should be canceled and the Government of Balochistan will pay for the paper with
their own resources.



96
Annex 16
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
Supervision Plan
1.        The program will require intensive IDA supervision, particularly in
the first two years of operation, to assist Government of Balochistan with
implementation of several policy oriented components tightly linked to the
institutional arrangements and program management.   In the first year of
implementation, specialists in procurement, disbursement and construction
management are needed in particular, to familiarize Government staff with IDA
procedures.  These specialists would need to visit the province on a monthly
basis from the Resident Mission for the first year of implementation until
procedures acceptable to IDA are well established in Government's regular
management, accounting and financial systems. Such intensive supervision would
alleviate much of the implementation problems that have been encountered in past
IDA operations.
2.   Annual operational plans will be prepared for the program, to be agreed
between the Government and IDA during annual reviews. In addition, there would
be a mid-year review to assess physical and financial progress.   For these
reviews, supervision missions would include headquarters staff supported by RMP
staff. These missions should consist of a General Educator and an Implementation
Specialist at a minimum, joined by various specialists in procurement, textbooks
development, beneficiary assessment, private schooling as necessary from time to
time.
3.   Supervision requirements are estimated at 18 staff weeks for the first year
and 15 staff weeks thereafter.



97
Annex 17
List of Documents Consulted
1.   Potential for Use of Distance Education, memo, undated
2.   Staff  Development  Proposal,  Bureau  of  Curriculum  and Extension,  01
September 1991
3.   A Study of School Facilities, Teacher Characteristics, Class Resources and
Teaching Practices as Related to Access, Retention and Dropout of Children
in Kachi Classes of Quetta, Sibi and Loralai Districts of Balochistan,
December 1991, by Ijaz Ahmad and A.S. Mujahid
4.   An Evaluation of the Allama Iqbal Open University Carried Out on Behalf of
the Government of Pakistan, February 1989
5.   Draft Conclusions from the Seminar on Innovative Approaches to Teacher
Education, memo, August 1991
6.   Issue Papers, Project Bridges:
(a) Teacher Gender and Student Achievement in Pakistan;
(b) Improving the Quality versus Increasing the Quantity of Schooling;
(c)  Influences on Academic Achievement in Pakistan:  Students, Teachers
and Classrooms; Good Schools and Poor Schools in Pakistan;
(d) Teachers and Teaching Practices in Pakistan;
(e) Teacher Certification: Value Added or Money Wasted?;
(f) School Organization: Administration, Management or Leadership?;
(g)  Teaching Practices to Increase Student Achievement:   Evidence from
Pakistan
7.   Improving Primary School Teaching:   An Evaluation of the Field-Based
Teacher Development Program in the Northern Areas of Pakistan, undated, by
Udo Bude
8.  New Primary Teachers Orientation Course,  Alma Iqbal Open University,
undated
9.   Education Conference Balochistan Working Papers, July 1988
10.  Curriculum and Syllabi for Primary Teaching Certificate and Certificate in
Teaching, 1983, Ministry of Education (Curriculum Wing)
11.  Primary Teacher Training:   A Proposal  for "Crash Program",  memo,  10
September 1991, by Jim Hughes and Mr. Anwar
12.  Formative Evaluation of Learning Coordinator and Plans for Future Status
and Pay Scale, memo, undated
13.  Report Regarding Bureau of Curriculum and Extension Center Balochistan,
memo, undated
14.  UNICEF Thrust in Primary Education in Balochistan, memo, undated
15.  Addendum to Project Plan of Action Human Resource Survey and Mobile Female
Teachers Training Unit, memo, undated
16.  Review,  Evaluation and Plan for Expansion of Learning Modules,  memo,
undated
17.  Statement of Review, Evaluation and Plan for Expansion of Teaching Kits,
memo, undated
18.  Study on the Distribution of Textbooks in the P/Schools of the Province,
memo, undated
19. Review, Evaluation and Plan for Expansion of Learning Modules Summary
Report, memo, undated
20.  Organizational Study of the Textbook Board, 31 October 1990, by Mohammad
Akbar and James Hughes



98
21. Primary Education Development Program for Balochistan (USAID) PC-I,
September 1989, Government of Balochistan Education Department
22. Social Action Plan Education, January 1992, Government of Balochistan
Planning and Development Department
23. Annual Program Review Meeting GoB-UNICEF, January 1992
24. List Showing Names of Textbooks Published for 1992, memo, undated
25. Report to UNICEF for Project Review Meeting, 05 May 1992, by Janet Robb
26. A Study of the Causes of Dropout at Kachi Stage and Measures to Attract the
Children Back to School, 1991, by Ijaz Ahmed and A.S. Mujahid
27. Report Regarding the Study About the Schools with Enrolment up-to 1-20 L
1-40, January 1992, by Mobeen Shah
28.  Balochistan Education Management Information System (BEMIS), memo, undated,
provides background and equipment specifications
29. BEMIS Benchmarks and Activity Plan April 1992 to June 1993, memo, undated
30. Qualifications of BEMIS Required Staff, memo, undated
31. Information Contained in the Balochistan Province Educational Statistics
Book, memo, 15 October 1989
32. Some BEMIS Problems that Require Attention, memo, 03 February 1993, by
Jorge Valdes
33. BEMIS Problems: Discussion Paper, memo, February 1993, by Jorge Valdes
34. BEMIS Status Report, January, April 1992, by Mohammad Sarfraz Khan and
Jorge Valdes
35. BEMIS Staff Requirements When Province-wide System is Operational, memo,
undated
36. The Balochistan Education Management Information System, draft descriptive
article, December 1991, by Jorge Valdes
37. Summary of Additional Computer Equipment (Hardware and Software)
Requirements for Support of Primary Education Development Program
Activities (AED/PED) Balochistan, memo, 22 August 1991, by Fahim Akbar
38. Balochistan Education Management System (BEMIS), descriptive memo, undated
39. Summary of Points Which Were Agreed Upon by the Bifurcation and
Reorganization Committee on April 27, 1992, memo, undated
40. Decentralized Management of Primary Education in Balochistan, March 1991,
by Nek Buzdar
41. Pakistan Primary Education Development (PED) Program Assistance Approval
Document, June 1989, Department of State Agency for International
Development
Bank Policy Papers
PHREE  (1990).   Primary Education: A World Bank Policy Paper.   World Bank
Population and Human Resources Department, Education and Employment Division
Policy Paper
PHREE  (1988).   Education in Sub-Saharan Africa:  Policies  for Adiustment.
Revitalization  and Expansion.    World Bank Population and Human Resources
Department, Education and Employment Division Policy Paper
Herz, Barbara, K. Subbarao, Masooma Habib and Laura Raney (1992). Letting Girls
Learn: Promising Approaches in Primary and Secondary Education.   World Bank
Discussion Papers No. 133.



99
PRE Working Paper Series
Verspoor, Adriaan (1991). Lending for Learning: Twentv Years of World Bank
Support for Basic Education. PRE Working Paper Series No. 686
Bellew,  Rosemary and Elizabeth King  (1991).   Promoting Girl's and Women's
Education: Lessons from the Past. PRE Working Paper Series No. 715
EDT Discussion paper
Searle, Barbara (1985). General Operating Review of Textbooks. Education and
Training Series Discussion paper No. 1, World bank; Washington D.C.
PHREE Background Paper Series
Fullan, Michael (1989). Implementing Educational Change: What We Know.  PHREE
Background Paper Series No. 89/18
Paxman, B., Tony Read and Carmelle Denning (1989). Analysis of Research on
Textbook Availability and Ouality in Developing Countries. PHREE Background Paper
Series No. 89/20
Verspoor, Adriaan (1990). Accelerated Educational Development. PHREE Background
Paper Series No. 90/25
Fredriksen, Birger (1990). Increasing Foreign Aid for Primary Education: The
Challenge for Donors. PHREE Background Paper Series No. 90/30
Verspoor, Adriaan and Kin Bing Wu (1990). Textbooks and Educational Development.
PHREE Background Paper Series No. 90/31
King, Elizabeth and M. Anne Hill (Eds) (1991). Women's Education in Developinq
Countries: Barriers. Benefits and Policy. PHREE Background Paper Series No. 91/40
World Bank Discussion Papers
Verspoor, Adriaan (1989). Pathways to Change: Improving the Oualitv of Education
in Developing Countries. World Bank Discussion Paper No. 53
Other Publications
PHREE (1990).  The Dividends of Learning: World Bank Support for Education.
World Bank Population and Human Resources Department, Education and Employment
Division Policy Paper
Lockheed, Marlaine E., Adriaan M. Verspoor and associates (1991). Improving
Primary Education in Developing Countries. New York, NY: Oxford University Press.



100
THE LEARNING ENVIRONMENT                                         Chart 1
Haterial Resources
Woki   h                    Supplementary        |      |Activity Corner                      p
Comnt                          Readers Library                  from                             N 
C                                                            Teaching Aid Kit                       Y
O                                                                                                   S
g Sh,oolParent                                                                   Scoo            C
U     Committee                                                                     B   tldings     A
N                             Guide Pupits Toward                                                   L
T                                                                  |
_  Community Skills                        ~~~~~Core Pui            qpen&_ E
R    Available to Schools                   ~~~~Centre  Txts        Funtue           U
E                                                                                                   C
E                                                                          R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S                                                                                                   c
R             I                            I                                                        -
C   Community Support            Learning ModuLes to        Timetables and
E     for Teacher                Upgrade Subject and        Lesson Plans to
S                                Pedagogic Skitts           Upgrade O and N
_                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Skills
|TEACHER REltRE
TEACHER                                    ~~~~~~~~~~Learning
TRAINING                                                 Coordinator
Support



SALOCNISTAM EDUCATION DEPARTENT - POGRAN ADNIVISTRATION SYSTEM                                               Chart 2
YECRETMR OF EDUCATIONl
Textbook      A.Dir                 D PUty Dir  |Deputy Drr       Deputy Dir                Deputy Dir                      Add Dir
Board    |   |South     |Da/Fe 1    Ed Png                        Aee/Ad    |              |EMIS                            North
Currlwrcu-   At Dir   Ast Dir |       |A                           r      t at Dhr tlDir hrat Dir          sat Dir          IAt et Dir
P |ln IrUB                in [    [    < l                II        II          |FieLds       Training    Operation   dnmtruetlon |    inistration
Dlrector     |DE                                                                                                                                                       o
Edctionxr                                                                
Infor_ tion  |ASDEO    Information    SDEO
specate{tis            pels                           
InformatIon     ASDEO      Infor_mtion      ASDEO
Learning                Learninm ng Sp.gerntng
Coorndtnao               ICoordC i  tor
ME Line of Authority
- - - - - - - - -  Program Coordination
A/                  Lialon officer for school conatruction, furniture wd equpn nt
b                   Lieleon officwr for teacher training  nd structural m_terial
cl                  Lliaion officer for private formation nd  cholarship program



MAP SECTION






IBRO 24497
62-                  N -  I ~~~~~~UZREKISIAN  J    To7;.
,-TAJ I KISTAN5   1       TAJIKISTAN
TURKMENISTAN
^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r 
AFGHANISTAN                                  r,
I                                                           { NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RTH-WEST t
I                                                          w   ~~~~~~~~~          ~      ~~FRONlE  is
PAKISTAN                                             PROVI
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM  -
t    _   PeDGR^^^et>scE                       -    -        ag D,~~~~~~~~~~~~D." JAMMU A 
7    NATICNAL ROADS                                                             KASHM
RALWAYS
*    PROINCE CAPITALS
*    NATONAL CAPITAL
- PROVICNC11CLINE)ARIES
INTERAATONAL AIUNDARIES
j  X  poKandaher ts - [ P U oKBndoho
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A&                                    al. Kh
Chorr
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                              Itauln 
ISLAMIC
IRAN
> 1    -   l *   | l   4/      {                              O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20 40 60 E0 100
Ai| E I ibi\a wnhoh SRI                                              M     LES A
]    . .  9   .    :    5   l l | R         SINDH 
Kil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEBR 1992> 
(o )   O din     
._  Rrbnn of 
DECEMBER 1992






0m   f (                          63'                         3-                          ^                                _        N. W  F P
ox                                         P A  K I S T A  N                                                                                     <
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
AVAILABILITY OF BOYS SCHOOLS BY DISTRICT
BOYS SCHOOLS PER                                                                       ZHOB
IS  /    1  O00    POPULATICN  -                  D        ISTRICT BOUNDARIES   J ,
OF   IRAN           TOH1.04DIVISION BOUNDARIES                   |DP I S H I NS-
/ ~~~~~1.05 TO 1.38                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES 7
/          1.39TO 1.53             ~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           LORALAI  
g ~~~~~~~~1.54 TO 2.63SlBI 
__         _APA N I  G T  RNKOHL
+ / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KALAT |)-
5                                    --                        / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KACHI    DERA     21
29                                                                                                          ,9'HI C29 H      p     AA)2
I S L A M  I C          |B A  L O  C  H  I S T A  N                                                                r   erm          _
REP U BL I C             )-
O F I R A N   >   -nz   K   H   U   Z   D   A  R  TOKMCE. BTA9 7I
'               f          T -               S                                       ..       J    . 2E. 5 A .    'A ,8 5,'A4    P S;HUZD R  T-K
LCtETER.J >,T1
:  .   PANJGUR       '                                         f                      .      z  -
t TURBAT                                                                      Ar
/                   t          _  t                    ~~~~~~~~       ~     ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~ASBELA  REP1 <INI
GAWADAR_,-, r< 1
25 (<~~~~~~~~~ ~ARABIAN SEA                                                                          17rAb-E S-
Ei~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                                     I   6r     w6  4






0'   6                         63                       55                        67                        6 6_ N.W   F P 
X                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A K I S T A N                                                              <R ,   
BALOCHISTAN PRIMARY EDUCATION PROGRAM
AVAILABILITY OF GIRLS SCHOOLS BY DISTRICT
GIRLS SCHOOLS PER
31                    1000 POPULATION:            DISTRICT BOUNDARIES      J                 KILA
-     DIVISION BOUNDARIES        P I S H I N   }   SAIFULLAH
/ 0.37 TO 0.50~~~~ PROVINCE BOUNDARIESl-  /
/             ~~~~~~~~0. 51 TO 0. 71  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES 1                 ,L ORA LA I
/ ~~~~~~~0.72 TO 1.88 , 
RA F G H A N I  STA N                                                                           KI H                        1 U
t / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KALAT  '-.So 
d                                   -^  .                 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~               ~     ~~~~~~~~~KACHI /8. DERA   
/ K H A R A N g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -   t- T'    d ' 
I S L A M  I C                              B A  L O  C H    S T A N             /--                   nhu   
R E P U B L I C                                              f/5 
O F I R A N   7-                        A    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     ~~~~~KHUZDAR  TUKMN  WITA INA
KaLOMdETRS              J^                                                                  >J\                    W
0   20   40   603  Bo  100   rP                                                                                                 f
MILES _<0  9I
4r          -TURBAT
;_,< , LA S B E  LA  /      IRP    st   6 INDA
|v                          w      A RABI1A N S EA     dr2l                                                     >||tX



