Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2482 PAK
                         Project Agreement
              (Balochistan Primary Education Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
                        Dated May 19, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2482 PAK
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and PROVINCE OF
BALOCHISTAN acting by its Governor (the Province).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy-six
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 76,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Province agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Province;
and
      WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) The Province declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through DOE with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate educational, administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Province shall
otherwise agree, the Province shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Province shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Province shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Province shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the Province of its obligations under
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Province shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures with respect to
the Project.
      (b)   The Province shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, including the
                  records and accounts for the Special Accounts,
                  for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
Page  3
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts as well as
                  the audit thereof, as the Association shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Province thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
           (ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Province of this event.
      Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For the Province:
Page  4
            Planning and Development Department
            Government of Balochistan
            Quetta, Pakistan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  DEVELOPMENT               7875 BLNSE PK
                  Quetta, Pakistan
      Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Province, may be taken or executed by the
Additional Chief Secretary (Development) or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and the Province shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                  PROVINCE OF BALOCHISTAN
                  By /s/ Agha Ghazanfar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part B hereof, vehicles and paper for
textbooks shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
Page  5
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 3 hereof, civil works,
furniture, equipment and materials for production of training
materials, and textbooks shall be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Computers, computer software, journals and training and audio-
visual materials, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items of equipment and materials estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,100,000, and
vehicles estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract under Part A hereof;
(ii) each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of more than $200,000; and (iii) the first three contracts for civil
works in each Fiscal Year irrespective of value, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of
such Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Province in the carrying out of the
Project, the Province shall employ, under time schedules
satisfactory to the Association, consultants and construction
managers whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants and construction managers shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  6
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.    The Province shall, by December 31, 1993 formulate necessary
rules to permit heads of schools to dispose of broken and damaged
furniture.
2.    The Province shall:
      (a)   institute procedures to ensure that, irrespective of the
source of funding, schools to be rehabilitated and new schools to be
constructed in the Province under the Program shall be located in
communities which have established beneficiary participation groups
or have demonstrated need as evidenced by the annual school census
of the Province;
      (b)   carry out rehabilitation and construction of schools
under Part A of the Project during the first year of Project
implementation in those sites which have been approved by the
Association; and
      (c)   not later than November 15 of each year beginning
November 15, 1993, provide to the Association for its approval a
list of school sites for the following Fiscal Year selected in
accordance with priority criteria, satisfactory to the Association
for carrying out rehabilitation and construction of schools under
Part A of the Project.
3.    The Province shall take steps to ensure that schools are
permitted to introduce double shifts as may be needed to increase
student places or to accommodate community demands for segregation
based on gender.
4.    The Province shall:
      (a)   by December 31, 1993, amend the Service Rules (School
Branch) (Women's Section) to include senior administrative positions
at the Borrower's Basic Pay Scale (BPS) 16 and above; and
      (b)   by December 31, 1993, amend the Service Rules to allow
for external recruitment of all technical positions related to the
Balochistan education management information system within the DPE
where such positions cannot be filled through promotion due to lack
of adequate qualifications.
5.    The Province shall take steps to ensure that the incremental
teacher and administrative positions established under the Project
and the Program are transferred from the development budget to the
recurrent budget in a phased manner beginning with Fiscal Year 1995,
satisfactory to the Association, so that by the end of the Project
period all such positions are sanctioned under the recurrent budget
for permanent posts.
6.    (a)   The Province shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, educational materials,
staff, services and other resources required for the Program.
      (b)   To that end, the Province shall:
            (i)   by April 30 of each fiscal year provide to the
                  Association a draft annual operational plan for
                  the following fiscal year setting forth the
                  Province's activities to be carried out under the
                  Program, together with the funding requirements
                  therefor;
           (ii)   together with the Association and not later than
                  June 15 in each fiscal year:
Page  7
                  (aa)  review the Province's activities carried
                        out under the annual operational plan in
                        such fiscal year and the draft annual
                        operational plan provided pursuant to sub-
                        paragraph (i) above; and
                  (bb)  taking into account the recommendations
                        resulting from such review, agree on an
                        operational plan describing the Province's
                        activities to be carried out under the
                        Program in the next following fiscal year,
                        together with the funding requirements
                        therefor; and
          (iii)   ensure that:
                  (aa)  adequate development and recurrent
                        budgetary allocations will be made, both
                        from domestic and external sources, for
                        each fiscal year to meet the funding
                        requirements of the Province's activities
                        under the Program for such year and agreed
                        pursuant to sub-paragraph (ii)(bb) above;
                        and
                  (bb)  the funds to be provided by the Province
                        out of its own resources for purposes of
                        carrying out the activities under the
                        Project in a given fiscal year will be
                        deposited in the accounts of the
                        departments and agencies of the Province
                        responsible for carrying out such
                        activities on a quarterly basis.
7.    The Province shall, not later than June 30, 1993, issue a
letter to the Association satisfactory to the Association setting
forth the Province's education sector policy, strategy and
priorities.
8.    The Province shall, by November 15 of each Fiscal Year,
beginning with Fiscal Year 1994, provide to the Association a mid-
Fiscal Year report on the progress of the Project and the Program
during that Fiscal Year.
9.    For purposes of carrying out Part A.5 of the Project set forth
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, the Province
shall prepare and follow such procedures and arrangements, including
criteria for selection of schools and students for receiving
scholarships, satisfactory to the Association.
10.   The Province shall, in consultation with the Association and
in accordance with terms of reference and methodology satisfactory
to the Association, undertake and complete by June 15, 1996 a mid-
term review of the Project and the Program, and, shall, promptly
thereafter, carry out the recommendations of such review in a manner
acceptable to the Association.
