CREDIT NUMBER 2482 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Balochistan Primary Education Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2482 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     , 1993, between ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting y its President (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSO IATION (the Association).
WHEREAS JA) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the Province of
Balochistan of the Borrower (the Province) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to the Province the proceeds of the Credit as provided in
this Agreement; and
(C)   the Project constitutes a part of the Province's program
in primary education (the Program) for the Fiscal Year 1993/94
through 1998/99; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Province;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise re quires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Province of even date herewith, as the same may


﻿-2-
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "DOE" means the Department of Education of the Province;
(c)   "DPE" means the Directorate of Primary Education within
DOE;
(d)   "Fiscal Year" means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower
beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30; and
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy-six million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 76,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the Province to open and maintain in dollars a special deposit
account in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association


﻿as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in t",is Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 2003 and endint April 1, 2028. Each installment to and
including the installment pzyable on April 1, 2013 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,


﻿-4-
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
providud in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Additional Chief Secretary (Development) of
the Province is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Province to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Province therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Province to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-5-
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Province in accordance with its standard
arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by the Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)   ensure that   all records   (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii)   enable  the  Association's  representatives  to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate


﻿-6-
auditing principles consistently   applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable   to   the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together  with   the  procedures  and  internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified7
(a)   The Province shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Province
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
of the Borrower has approved the PC-1 document with respect to the
Project; and
(b)   the Province has provided to the Association evaluation
and recommendation reports in respect of the consultants to be
employed for the provision of technical assistance under the
Project.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Province, and is legally
binding upon the Province in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in such Division is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
Cable address:               Telex:
ECONOMIC                  ECIDV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective na.eq in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By S          D Th.        se(V          L~
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works               36,800,000        100%
(2) Equipment,                10,300,000        100% of foreign
furniture,                                 expenditures,
textbook paper,                            100% of local
textbooks, soft-                           expenditures (ex-
ware and train-                            factory costs) and
ing materials                              80% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Vehicles                     700,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 60% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4) Consultants'              13,500,000        100%
services,
fellowships
and training


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          R of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Incremental               3,400,000        100%
staff salaries
(6) Building and              4,100,000        50%
vehicle
maintenance
(7) Unallocated               7,600,000
TOTAL                76,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "incremental staff salaries" means the salaries
of the teachers and administrative staff appointed to posts
sanctioned under the annual development budget of the Province,
after July 1, 1993 for purposes of implementing the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve access,
equity and efficiency in primary education, particularly for girls;
(b) to improve the quality of the learning environment in all
schools; and (c) to improve the organizational framework, planning
and management of the educational system.
The Project, which supports the Province's Program in primary
education, consists of the following parts, subject to such
modification thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Improving access, equity and efficiency
1.    Construction of new co-educational girls' primary schools.
2.    Construction of classrooms in existing shelterless schools,
giving priority to schools which both boys and girls attend.
3.    Provision of furniture, a latrine block, and storage for books
and materials, especially in new and rehabilitated schools.
4.    Carrying out of maintenance works in schools.
5.    Carrying out of a pilot scheme for provision of scholarships
to girls from low-income families to attend private schools.
Part B:     Improving the Learning Environment
1.    Strengthening the   quality  and  availability  of primary
education teachers, inter alia, through: (a) in-service training of
untrained teachers through an accelerated program; (b) pre-service
training of teachers; and    (c) in-service training of trained
teachers and learning coordinators to upgrade skills in multi-grade
teaching.
2.    Provision  of  core   student  activity  books   and  other
instructional materials suitable for multi-grade teaching and
learning.


﻿- 13 -
Part C:     Improving Organizational Framework, Planning and
Management
1.    Strengthening  the  DPE  through  improved management   and
administration and increased teacher strength.
2.    Strengthening the management information system within the
DPE.
3.    Carrying out of education research, policy, monitoring and
evaluation studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an    amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Province shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Province, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Province shall have requested.
(b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Province  shall   furnish  to  the  Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account at
such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Province shall furnish to the Association the


﻿- 15 -
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Province,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Province
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Province out of the Special
Account, the Province shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Province directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the    Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
such parts of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the relevant Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for such parts of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Province. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to


﻿- 16 -
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Province shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Province has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Province shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund Co
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Province may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


