Report No. 783a-BA                                                               FILE  COPY
Burma
Appraisal of
Livestock P'roject
December 1, 1975
South Asia Projects Departrnent
General Agricultural Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of -heir official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                                6.24 kyats (K)
K 1                  -              US$0.160
K 1,000,000                         US$160,256
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Mixed System)
1 pound (lb)                                  0.454 kilograms (kg)
1 long ton (ton)               5 2,240 lb =   1,016 kg
I viss                        =3.6 lb    =  1.633 kg
1 inch (in)                                   25.40 millimeters (nm)
1 foot (ft)                                   0.305 meter (m)
1 yard (yd)                                   0.914 m
1 mile (mi)                                   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)                                   0.404 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)          =              2.589 sq km
1 cubic foot (cu ft)          =               0.028 cubic meters (cu t)
1 cusec = 1 cu ft/sec          =              0.028 cu m/sec
1 gallon (British)             =              4.546 liters (1)
1 gallon (US)                                 3.785 1
GLOSSARY AND A*BREVIATIONS
Al        Artificial Insemination
CAIO      Central Audit and Inspection Office
DAiHVS    Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science
DFS       Director, Field Services
DLO       District Livestock Officer
FMD       Foot and Mouth Disease
HYV       High-Yielding Varieties (Crops)
LDMC      Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation
LDC       Livestock Development Center
M         Million
MAP       Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
TC        Trade Corporation
TLO       Township Livestock Officer
UBB       Union of Burma Bank
VLS       Village Livestock Specialist
Stylo     Stylosanthes humilis (pasture legume)
Buffel
grass   Cenchrus ciliaris (pasture grass)
Hluttaw   Burmese parliament
Crop Year:  July 1 - June 30        Fiscal Year: April 1 - March 31



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS                                   ..............................  i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ..........................................                                                              1
II.       BACKGROUND   ....................................................                                               2
A.   General .........................................                                                         2
B.       Agriculture   and  Farming  Patterns   ................                                               2
C.       The  Livestock  Industry   ..........................                                                 3
D.       Processing  and  Marketing   ........................                                                 3
E.       Agricultural   Credit   .............................                                                 4
F.       Extension,   Research   and  Training   ................                                              4
G.       Health  and  Nutrition   ............................                                                 5
III.         THE  PROJECT  AREA   .....................................                                                     5
IV.        THE  PROJECT   ..........................................                                                      6
A.       General  Description   .............................                                                  6
B.       Detailed  Features   ...............................                                                  7
Field  Services   . ...... ... .                      .. ..  ....... ....   .    -    7
Vaccine  Production   ...........  .                       ............. .                  8
Pasture Improvement  .....                          ..................                      8
Water Point Construction  ...................                                                9
The Livestock Development Centers
and  Animal  Research   .......     ............... ...  .                             10
Dairy  Development   ..........................                                            11
Education, Training and Technical Assistance    12
Environmental   Impact   .......................                                           12
V.       COST  ESTIMATES   AND  FINANCING   .........................                                                  13
A.       Project   Costs   ...................................                                                13
B.       Financing   .......               .......... ..                ....................                  14
C.       Procurement   .......                ......... ..               ...................                 15
D.       Disbursement   ....................................                                                  16
E.       Accounts   and  Audit   ..............................                                               17



-2-
Page No.
VI.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....        .....................    17
Overall Control and Project Monitoring .....    18
Project Execution .......... ..      ..............    19
VII.   FINANCIAL RESULTS AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES ....         ........   19
Marketing and Prices           .......................    19
Impact on Government Revenues .        .............   20
Financial Results        . .........................    20
VIII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....          .............   20
Increased Production ......... .. ............    20
Number of Beneficiaries .        ...................    21
Employment .........      .......................    22
Project Risk ......................................    22
Economic Returns ...........................    22
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....         ...........    23
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to
Burma in Sept/Oct 1974 comprising Messrs Nelson, Brumby, Ellinger and
Wolffelt.



-3-
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture and the Livestock Industry
2.   Veterinary, Artificial Insemination and Extension Services
Table 1 - Cost Estimates
2 - A. Herd Projection for 200 Cow Village Tract
B. Project Coverage
3 - Financial Implications
4 - Vaccine Production
3.   Pasture Development
Table 1 - Development Phasing and Cost Estimates
2 - Assumed Incremental Production and
Financial Implications
4.   Water Development
Table 1 - Phasing of Construction and Cost Estimates
5.   Animal Research and the Livestock Development Centers
Table 1 - Cost Estimates
2 - LDC Cattle Breeding: Herd Projection
3 - LDC Cattle Breeding and Seed Production:
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
4 - LDC Pig Production: Herd Projection
5 - LDC Pig Production: Sales and Operating
Expenses Projection
6 - LDC Poultry Unit: Flock Projection
7 - LDC Poultry Unit: Sales and Operating
Expenses Projection
8 - LDC Dairy Development: Herd Projection
9 - LDC Dairy Development: Sales and Operating
Expenses Projection



-4-
6.   Dairy Development
Table 1 - Rangoon Milk Processing Plant:  Cost Estimate
2 - Rangoon Milk Processing Plant:  Income and
Operating Cost Projections
3 - Rangoon Milk Processing Plant:  Assumptions
for Computing Sales Revenues
4 - Rangoon Milk Processing Plant:  Assumptions
for Computing Operating Costs
5 - Rangoon Milk Processing Plant:  Financial
Rate of Return
6 - Dairy Farm Model: Herd Projection
7 - Two Government Dairy Farms: Cost Estimates
8 - Dairy Farm Model: Sales and Operating
Expense Projection
9 - Implementation Schedule - Milk Processing
7.   Education and Training
Table 1 - Cost Estimates
8.   Project Costs
Table 1 - Summarized Project Cost Estimates
9.  Proposed Financing
Table 1 - Proposed Financing
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 1 - Estimated Disbursement Schedule
11.   Guidelines for LDMC Audit
12.   Table 1 - LDMC: Investment Projections
2 - LDMC: Projected Income Statement
3 - LDMC: Projected Cash Flow
Chart 1 - Project Organization
2 - Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC)
13.   Technical Assistance Summary
Appendix 1 - Terms of Reference for the Livestock Project
Coordinator
2 - Terms of Reference for the Team Leader,
Livestock and Pasture Research
3 - Terms of Reference for Dairy Processing
and Marketing Consulting Firm



-5-
14.   Marketing of Project Output
Table 1 - Dairy Herd Size Distribution in Greater Rangoon
2 - Import of Milk and Milk Products
3 - Rangoon: Consumer Price Index (1965=100)
4 - Rangoon: Projection of Milk Demand
Chart 1 - Rangoon Milk Supply
15.   Effect on Government Budget
Table 1 - Consolidated Government Cash Flow
16.   Economic Impact and Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return
2 - Economic Rate of Return:  Sensitivity Analysis
17.  Project Implementation Schedule
MAP  -   Project Area






BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The agricultural sector in Burma dominates the economy (about 40%
of gross domestic product (GDP), 90% of exports and 70% of total employment).
The failure of crop production to grow sufficiently in recent years (about
1.9% a year) underlies the stagnation of economic growth. In the past
decade, rice production in particular has failed to expand and a marked
decrease in export earnings from agricultural products has resulted (K 1,062
M in 1962 to K 344 M in 1973). Small farmers with two to ten acres, growing
rice as their main crop, occupy most agricultural land; at present low levels
of productivity, many are little more than subsistence farmers. Past agri-
cultural policies of the Government of Burma (GOB) have emphasized land re-
distribution and the establishment of controls over both rice procurement
and the supply of farm inputs. GOB is making new efforts to stimulate agri-
cultural production by liberalizing crop procurement prices and encouraging
greater use of irrigation and high yielding varieties of rice.
ii.       Though the direct contribution of livestock to GDP is small, live-
stock play a critical role in agriculture. Cattle and buffalo provide vir--
tually all draft power for land cultivation and rural transport. A defi-
ciency in bovine numbers and productivity limits crop areas and delays
sowing dates, thereby restricting both crop yields and the frequency of
double cropping. In addition inadequate domestic production leads to a
strong and unsatisfied demand for imported livestock products, particularly
milk products and tallow.
iii.      This report presents the appraisal of a project in support of live-
stock development in the main agricultural area of Central Burma. It would
be the first IDA credit for Burma's livestock sector. Total estimated project
costs over a five year period would be US$12.8 M of which US$7.5 M would be
financed by IDA. The proposed IDA credit would cover foreign exchange costs
of US$6.4 M and about 17% of local currency costs. The project is directed
primarily to the transfer of technical improvements in livestock production.
It would lay the foundation for further and larger livestock development
schemes. Project expenditures comprise mainly public sector investments
directed to improving village livestock production through the development
of a field service in animal health and livestock extension; increased
vaccine production and diagnostic facilities; communal pasture improvement
and water supplies; the strengthening of livestock research and stock multi-
plication; increased milk production through cross breeding; the construc-
tion of new milk processing facilities; and support for better training
in animal husbandry and veterinary science.
iv.       For project control and coordination, a Project Policy Committee
would be established under the chairmanship of the Deputy Minister of Agri-
culture and Forests. It would include representation from the three GOB



- ii -
agencies concerned, together with the Ministry of Planning and Finance. A
small secretariat reporting to the Project Policy Committee would be headed
by a livestock project coordinator. The agencies concerned with implementa-
tion would be:
(a)  the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Science, (DAHVS) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forests; for expanded vaccine production, diagnostic
services and a greatly strengthened field service;
(b)  a new agency of the Ministry, the Livestock Development
and Marketing Corporation (LDMC); for practical live-
stock research, stock multiplication on ten livestock
development centers, two specialized dairy farms,
communal pasture improvement, the creation of a new
milk processing unit and village stock water supplies;
(c)  the Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science
(IAHVS) of the Ministry of Education; for strengthening
training in animal husbandry and veterinary science at
the university level.
v,        To provide effective support to project activities, GOB would
engage about 19 man-years of consultant staff. The design and construction
of the milk plant would be carried out under consultant guidance; and speci-
fic technical activities involving vaccine and diagnostic services, live-
stock research and veterinary training would be supported by short term
consultancies and fellowships.
vi.       GOB would establish a project account with the Ministry of Plan-
ning and Finance through which the proceeds of the IDA credit would be
channeled. The major part of the credit would be for improved services
to livestock owners and for milk processing. IDA funds used directly by
GOB agencies for activities which do not produce revenue (US$5.0 M) would
be regarded as incremental budget allocations. Funds used by LDMC for
activities which generate direct revenue (US$2.5 M) would be relent by
GOB for 15 years including 5 years of grace with interest at 8.5% p.a.
GOB would bear the exchange risk except on the $2.5 m on-lent to LDMC.
The GOB contribution to the project would be K 34.2 M (US$5.5 M) and
3.1 M (US$5.3 M) comprise loan funds of K 13.2 M to LDMC and K 19.9 M as
incremental budget allocations.
vii.      The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against 100% of
the cif cost of imported vehicles, farm,milk processing and research equip-
ment, livestock, and semen and veterinary medicines; 80% of the construction
costs for the Rangoon milk plant and civil works executed by force account
(teaching and boarding facilities, veterinary posts and water development);
as well as 100% of contract expenditures of consultants engaged for the
project and of overseas training and travel for Burmese staff.



- iii -
viii.          All contracts in excess of US$50,000 for equipment, vehicles,
and imported construction materials would be awarded on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Im-
ported livestock and semen would be procured on the basis of price quotations
from at least three countries where suitable animals are available. Because
of the absence of private contractors, civil works would be carried out by
GOB force account and by the GOB Construction Corporation.
ix.       The primary benefit from the project would be an increase in the
quality and number of draft animals for crop production and transport.
Through crossbreeding and pasture improvement milk and beef production,
mainly by small farmers, would also be increased, milk production by about
11,000 tons and beef production by 5,000 tons per year (20,000 slaughter ani-
mals). These production increases would lead to significant foreign ex-
change savings. The project would also markedly improve the quality and
value of livestock owned by about 250,000 small farmers, most with 5 ac or
less, and lead the way to further projects for improving livestock produc-
tion. The annual value of incremental production at project maturity, about
year 6, would be about K 61 M. No problems in marketing the project output
are expected. The project would provide a small amount of permanent employ-
ment (for about 500) and temporary employment (about 750 man-years for water
point construction and pasture development). The estimated rate of return
to the economy (ROR(E)) would be about 26%. A 10% increase in project costs
would reduce ROR(E) by six points; a 10% reduction in assumed retail milk
prices would reduce ROR(E) by three points; and a similar decrease in bene-
fits in participation in veterinary services, by two points.
x.        Mainly by improving rice production through better, more reliable,
draft power for cultivation, the proposed project would help GOB to stimu-
late overall agricultural production. The extension and research activities
in pasture and water point development, in breed improvement and disease
control, would also encourage sound animal husbandry in villages outside the
project area, the value of which cannot be quantified with reasonable accu-
racy.
xi.       The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.5 M.



I



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The economy of Burma is dominated by a traditional rural sector
comprising 85% of the country's population. Most land is farmed by small-
holders, the median farm having about 5 ac. Livestock form an integral
part of the agricultural economy and, though their productivity is low,
they provide almost all draft power for land cultivation and rural trans-
port. They also provide milk and meat, and their manure is a valuable
fertilizer for field crops.
1.02      Changes in land tenure laws, following Independence in 1948, were
associated with an increase in the number of farm holdings. This develop-
ment, coupled with low productivity and high slaughter rate of the bovine
population, has led to an insufficiency of draft animals. This results in
delayed planting dates leading to reduced yields of the predominant rice
crop, and a reduction in the frequency of second cropping. The failure of
the dairy industry to keep pace with population growth has also led to in-
creased demand for imports of sweetened condensed milk, and another animal
product, tallow for soap making, is also imported. Demand for both has had
to be curtailed by the Government of Burma (GOB) to preserve scarce foreign
exchange. Realizing the critical role livestock play in the Burmese econo-
my, GOB places high priority on the livestock subsector, a priority sup-
ported by a recent IBRD agricultural review of Burma 1/.
1.03      This would be the first Bank Group livestock project in Burma.
It is essentially the first stage of a longer term plan for the development
of the livestock sector; it is expected to lay the base for future larger
livestock projects in Burma.
1.04      The project is based on proposals prepared by GOB (June 1974 DAHVS
Working Paper). Identification and preparation were aided by two brief FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program missions to Burma in April and October 1973. This
report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Burma in
Sept/Oct 1974, comprising Messrs Nelson, Brumby, Ellinger and Wolffelt.
1/   Agricultural Development and Credit in the Socialist Republic of the
Union of Burma, IBRD Report No. 454a-BA, July 31, 1974.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2
2.01      The Union of Burma, with an area of 676,586 km , borders Bangladesh
and India to the northwest, China and Laos to the east and Thailand to the
south. It has three distinct climatic and topographical regions: the West-
ern and Northern Hills, the Shan Plateau and the Central Belt. The Central
Belt is the most densely settled and is made up from a fertile and heavily
populated lower wet zone, a central forest zone and a northern dry zone.
Politically, Burma is divided into the seven Divisions of Central Burma and
the seven States of the border areas. Each Division and State, for admin-
istrative purposes, is subdivided into townships. The smallest administrative
unit in cities and towns is the ward and, in rural areas, the village tract.
2.02      Population, estimated at 29.5 M, of which 85% is rural, is growing
at an annual rate of about 2.2%. The capital, Rangoon, is the only center
with more than a million people (Mandalay, the second largest city, has  2
418,000). Populati2n density averages 42/km (compared with India 320/km )
but rises to 148/km in the better agricultural areas.
2.03      Burma is one of the 25 least-developed countries.  Estimated per
capita Gross National Product (GNP) is around US$80 and the total GNP, about
US$2 billion. Average estimated annual GNP growth in real terms between
1963/65 and 1972/74 was only 2.8%, i.e. hardly above population growth.
Natural resources in Burma, other than agriculture and forestry include oil,
natural gas, minerals and gems.
B. Agriculture and Farming Patterns
2.04      Agriculture, accounts for about 40% of GDP, 90% of exports and
almost 70% of employment. Total agricultural output has increased slowly
in recent years - 1.7% per annum between 1963/65 and 1972/74. Crop produc-
tion increased by 1.9% per annum, though rice production, accounting for
half of total crop output, has remained stagnant at around 8 M tons. Rice
exports, which in 1962 accounted for 67% of export earnings, decreased from
almost 2 M tons in the early 1960s to only 0.6 M tons in 1971/72 and to only
0.25 M tons in 1972/73 and 1973/74.
2.05      After Independence in 1948, Government redistributed land to former
tenants and farm workers, and the number of farm holdings increased by about
1.2 M during the last decade. Many of Burma's 4.4 M rural households do not
have enough land to support a family. Subsistence households (farms up to
2 ac) account for 36% of rural households and 8% of total cropland; marginal
farms (2-5 ac), 28% of rural households and 18% of cropland; commercial
farms (over 5 ac), 36% of households and 74% of cropland.



-3-
C. The Livestock Industry
2.06      Annex 1 describes Burma's agriculture and livestock industry.
Between 1968/69 and 1972/73, according to official statistics, the national
cattle and buffalo herd increased by around 2% per annum, the number of
goats and sheep declined, and that of pigs and poultry increased substan-
tially. Ownership of all forms of livestock is widespread and characterized
by small individual herds and flocks, cattle and buffalo being kept primarily
for draft purposes and pigs and poultry for subsistence and sale. Offtake
rates are low, due largely to high disease incidence. Though accurate
figures are not available, mortality from infectious disease is high. Ani-
mal disease control is limited by lack of vaccine, equipment and transport.
Livestock productivity is also adversely influenced by low weaning rates,
arising from poor nutrition due to lack of improved pasture and other fod-
der. The preferential castration of the largest young bulls to produce
draft animals exerts a continuous genetic selection pressure against produc-
tive cattle and buffalo. Though the direct contribution of livestock to GNP
is low in money terms, animal draft power is crucial to the economy, forming
the basis for land preparation for almost all crops, and providing almost all
rural transport.
2.07      The Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry (DAHVS) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) is primarily responsible for the
welfare of the livestock industry. General development planning relating
to agriculture and livestock is the responsibility of the Ministry of
Planning and Finance. This Ministry monitors agricultural price movements
and import/export information and advises on price and market regulations.
D. Processing and Marketing
2.08      Livestock processing facilities are few, old and poorly equipped.
There are two municipal slaughterhouses in Rangoon and one municipal slaugh-
ter slab in Mandalay. To avoid depletion of draft power, slaughter of
cattle and buffalo is officially restricted to non-productive animals.
Demand for meat is strong but, until the availability of slaughter animals
increases, the improvement of meat processing facilities would be of little
value.
2.09      Milk processing is limited to a small GOB sterilization plant (ca-
pacity 900 1/hour) in Rangoon, a GOB condensory (capacity 1,400 1/shift) near
Maymyo and about 150 small privately or cooperatively owned condensories,
mainly around Mandalay. Demand for milk in the city markets of Rangoon and
Mandalay has been increasing, particularly as traditional imports of sweet-
ened condensed milk are limited. City markets are supplied with raw milk,
usually adulterated, which passes through a chain of middlemen at uncon-
trolled prices. Supplies show a marked seasonal fluctuation; they average



-4-
about 50,000 1/day in Rangoon. Imports of dairy products, consisting pri-
marily of milk powder for infants (3.6 M lb in 1973) and condensed milk
(0.3 M lb in 1973), have been declining due to lack of foreign exchange
(total dairy imports were 37.7 M lb in 1969, only 4.1 M lb in 1973). Im-
ported milk products are officially distributed through cooperative shops
on a strict ration system; they are also an important trade item in the
black market.
E. Agricultural Credit
2.10      A Bank Group mission visited Burma in Nov/Dec 1973 to assess the
potentials for accelerating the growth of agricultural production and the
contribution that credit institutions could make to this growth. Its report
"Agricultural Development and Credit in the Union of Burma," (IBRD Report
454a-BA, July 31, 1974) highlights current deficiencies in farm credit and
proposes the formation of a greatly strengthened agricultural credit pro-
gram.
2.11      The Agricultural Finance Division of the Union of Burma Bank (UBB)
is, at present, the principal source of agricultural credit in Burma, mainly
short term consumption loans. Other credit sources are the Agricultural
Corporation (cotton, jute, HYV rice, wheat and potatoes), the Industrial
Development Corporation (sugarcane), and the Agricultural Mechanization
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest (land preparation).
Non-institutional credit, though illegal, is still widespread.
2.12      The country has never had an adequate development-oriented farm
credit program and almost all institutional credit has been for seasonal
crop production. The total amount has been small (in 1971/72 only 5% of
the value of crops produced) and mainly to finance rice producers. GOB
plans to establish a State Agricultural Bank to provide medium and long
term credit, and further extension of livestock development in the private
sector depends heavily on such credit being available.
F. Extension, Research and Training
2.13      Agricultural extension in Burma is weak, reflecting inadequate
recruitment, training and supervision, and extension officers receive no
training in animal production. GOB veterinary services comprise about 100
graduate veterinarians (about 20% of current needs) and about 800 animal
health assistants with very limited training in animal production. Lack
of transport, effective supervision and vaccines reduces the impact of the
veterinary staff. The annual output of veterinarians (about 80 at present
and growing rapidly) vastly exceeds the number of vacancies available in
GOB service and there is little employment for them in the private sector.



-5-
2.14      Agricultural research, excluding livestock, is presently being
upgraded and expanded. With UNDP assistance, a new central agricultural
research center is being established at Yezin. Limited livestock research
is undertaken through DAHVS, which controls a series of 25 well distributed
GOB livestock farms.
G. Health and Nutrition
2.15      Though public health services in Burma are still relatively poor,
with one doctor per 6,800 people and one hospital bed per 1,400, the achieve-
ments of the last decade have been substantial. Malaria has been virtually
eliminated and the incidence of most other disease reduced. Life expectancy
increased from 41 years in 1956 to nearly 50 in 1965. In spite of inadequate
agricultural growth, energy and protein nutrition in rural areas is generally
adequate, though there is iron deficiency in many places, and serious vitamin
and calcium deficiencies contribute to high infant mortality (63 per 1,000
live births).
II.  THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area is in the Central Belt and includes the three
main river basins of Burma. It would extend from Naung-Cho in the north to
Moulmein in the South and the Chindwin and Irawaddy rivers in the West to
the Mandalay - Pegu provincial boundaries to the East (see Map). The cli-
mate is monsoonal with the South-West monsoon bringing heavy rains during
May - Oct; the remainder of the year is relatively dry. Rainfall varies
from about 120 inches in the Delta to less than 40 inches in the central
dry zone west of Mandalay, which is in a rain shadow of the Arakan moun-
tains. Supplementary irrigation is used for rice in the dry zone, but
elsewhere precipitation is sufficient for rainfed cropping in the monsoon
season.
3.02      Median farm size in the project area is about 5 ac and some 60-70
farm holdings comprise the typical village area. Farm families live cen-
trally in the village and the farm holding is commonly fragmented, with
fields averaging a little over 0.5 ac. 1/ In addition, each village normally
has a communal area on which privately-owned cattle and buffalo can graze
without charge. This varies greatly in size and quality from village to
village. In the absence of effective control, serious overgrazing and
degradation is common, particularly in the dry zone where wind and water
erosion is a long standing and continuing cause of soil deterioration.
Typically, each farm family cultivates rice in lower lying or irrigated
1/   IBRD Report 454a-BA, July 31, 1974 referred to in para 2.10.



-6-
areas, and dryland cereals (maize, sorghum, sesame) on higher ground; some
10-20% of cultivable land is usually fallow in the monsoon season.
3.03      There are significant regional differences.  In the delta, rice
is predominant, fallow and communal land sparse, and buffalo are common.
In the dry zone, nearer to Mandalay, dryland cereals prevail, fallow and
communal grazing is more plentiful, and buffalo, due to lack of dry season
water for wallowing, are rare. In spite of these differences, the strategy
for agricultural development in both areas is similar and focuses on maxi-
mizing crop area and yield. In the dry zone, pasture development on fallow
and communal land is particularly important to ensure erosion control, the
maintenance of soil fertility and the provision of adequate fodder for
draft animals.
3.04      The project area contains about 5 M head of cattle and buffalo
(more than 50% of the national herd), and about 80% of the cultivated land
of the country. Rangoon and Mandalay, both in the project area, are the
principal milk and cattle markets. The demand for milk and meat in these
markets, and throughout the country is increasing rapidly . Principal
livestock production problems in the project area are high incidence of
animal disease, coupled with inadequate feed, particularly during the
prolonged dry season. Insufficient drinking water for cattle in the dry
zone, poor genetic quality of breeding stock and poorly organized market
outlets, particularly for milk, are further constraints. Poor livestock
productivity is reflected in inadequate draft animal power, resulting in
late crop planting, lower yields and reduced double cropping.
3.05      Project activities and investments are designed to meet the prob-
lems of the project area and reflect the state of institutional development,
resource endowment and capacity to carry out productive works in the proj-
ect area.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project aims to increase village livestock productivity, mainly
by public sector investments in improved veterinary, extension and marketing
services, and by initiating physical improvement in pastures, water points,
research and training facilities. It would be the first phase of a broadly
based program to increase livestock production in Burma. The project, to
be executed over five years, would consist of:
(a) development of a more intensive veterinary and livestock
extension service for about 375,000 bovines owned by
about 250,000 farm families;



-7-
(b) the production of increased quantities of vaccine against
the more important animal diseases;
(c) improvement of 20,000 ac of communal pasture in about
300 villages;
(d) construction of water facilities in about 50 villages;
(e) development of ten livestock development centers (LDC) for
the multiplication and supply to farmers of improved stock,
pasture seeds, artificial insemination (Al) services and
practical pasture and livestock production research studies.
The importation of improved cattle, pigs and poultry, and
cattle semen for the LDC and specialized dairy farms would
be an integral part of project activities;
(f) development of smalIholder dairy production based on
cross-breeding and improved nutrition together with
the construction of two specialized dairy farms, as
well as small dairy mits on four selected LDC.
Improved milk marketing and processing would be
provided by constructing and operating, near
Rangoon, a milk processing plant, and associated
milk collection centers. A feasibility study for
a further milk plant near Mandalay would also be
undertaken by the project;
(g) provision of technical assistance and training facil-
ities for diploma and undergraduate veterinary students.
4.02      The project would be implemented by three main GOB agencies;
the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science (DAHVS), the
Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC), and the Faculty
of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science of the Ministry of Education.
An overall Project Policy Committee would coordinate, supervise and monitor
project activities.
B. Detailed Features
Field Services
4.03      An intensive veterinary and animal husbandry extension service
(Annex 2) would be developed around the ten LDC (see Map). This Project
Field Service, under a Director (DFS), who would be a deputy to the DAHVS
Director, would improve existing GOB programs and ensure annual vaccination
of village cattle and buffalo against blackleg, anthrax, haemorragic septi-
caemia and rinderpest, provide experimental vaccination for foot and mouth



-8-
disease (FMD), dose young stock twice a year for gastro-intestinal parasites,
provide an AI service and give advice on animal husbandry techniques, feed
supplementation and pasture development. The service would cover about
375,000 bovines (about 40% of the cattle & buffalo in villages to be selected
for inclusion in the service; selection would be on the basis of livestock
density and accessibility). The principal components for this part of the
project would be: training, supervision and transport for 360 field staff,
veterinary and AI equipment, cattle handling facilities, vaccines, drugs;
and staff salaries and other operating costs for the first two years (con-
sidered as capital costs). In each of the ten districts in which LDC are
located, a District Livestock Officer (DLO) would be appointed, together
with four Township Livestock Officers (TLO), each guiding eight Village
Livestock Specialists (VLS). Each VLS would be responsible for 12 villages,
comprising a total of about 800 small farm holdings. About 250,000 farm
families, 15% of an estimated 1.7 M in the project area, would thus be po-
tential beneficiaries. A minimum of 24 visits per village per year would
be made requiring about 25 miles of travel every day. In addition AI would
be provided to a nucleus group of villages which the VLS would visit at least
each second day throughout the mating season (August to December). Details
of investment and operating costs and the expected benefits are in Annex 2,
Tables 1 to 3. To ensure financial control and effective assessment of
the impact of this project component, it was agreed at negotiations that
an identifiable group of field personnel would be employed within DAHVS
for the Project Field Service with a Director appointed in consultation with
the Association.
Vaccine Production
4.04      To provide the increased quantities of vaccines Burma requires,
production at the MAF vaccine laboratory at Insein would be expanded from
its present output (sufficient for 10% of the livestock population) to
cover 50% of the country's livestock. Typing facilities for the various
strains of FMD prevalent in Burma would also be introduced as an initial
step to the manufacture of FMD vaccine. A total of 24 man-months of con-
sultant services would be provided under the credit to assist in the pro-
duction of vaccines, in diagnostic procedures and in the control of repro-
duction disease (Annex 2). Suitable assurances were obtained.
Pasture Improvement
4.05      Over three years (Annex 3, Table 1) about 20,000 ac of village
pasture land would be improved, principally by the introduction of the
pasture legume, annual stylo (Stylosanthes humilis). Pasture on village
communal land in each of 300 villages in areas adjacent to the ten LDC's
to be established under the project, would be improved (Annex 3). Partici-
pating villages would be selected initially by VLS and DLO's, for final
decision and action by LDMC, on the basis of:
(a) the availability of a suitable land area in the village
for pasture improvement;



-9-
(b)  the interest of the village council to undertake communal
pasture development and to control the use of improved
grazing land;
(c)  agreement of the village council to a program of
pasture development and grazing control, in accord-
ance with LDMC recommendations;
(d)  the willingness of the villagers to provide the labor
required.
4.06      Based on successful experience in Burma (Annex 3, para 1.02), stylo
seed would be planted by surface broadcasting on very simple seedbeds pre-
pared by harrowing heavily grazed, brush cleared land. The main investment
would be pasture seed, land preparation, seed sowing and a small amount of
fencing and fertilizer (Annex 3, Table 1). Incremental animal production,
and improved draft power would provide an attractive incentive to villagers
to improve grazing land (Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2). Additional benefits would
be derived from a reduction, through better pasture cover, of the now preva-
lent erosion and soil fertility deterioration in the drier areas.
Water Point Construction
4.07      The availability of drinking water in many villages in upper Burma
frequently limits optimum land use and livestock numbers. Under the project,
water point construction would be provided in about 50 villages adjacent to
the LDC, to assess both demand and the impact of this activity on village
welfare. Two main types of water facility would be constructed; shallow
wells and ponds (Annex 4). Shallow wells or, where practical, tubewells
would be constructed on the limited area of alluvial soils where under-
ground water is known to be available. Average depth would be about 15 m.
Wells would be dug by hand, lined with reinforced concrete provided with
filters, where necessary, and finished with a concrete base plate. Addi-
tionally, 20 "bamboo wells" would be drilled up to about 7 m on an experi-
mental basis to see whether this inexpensive system, now being tried in
Burma (by the Salt Corporation), would suffice. Bore diameter would be
about 15 cm and the lining would be bamboo strip bound in coir cord. Hand
pumps, and a water trough would be standard fittings. The village council
would be responsible for maintenance and for monitoring water quality, with
the assistance of the Public Works Department.
4.08      Where groundwater is not available, ponds would be built where
topographical and geological conditions favor them. They would store an
average of 6,500 mii of water at an average depth of 5 m. Storage/excava-
tion ratios are expected to be about 6:1. Each pond would be fenced and
fitted with a hand pump and water trough (gravity outlets would be avoided
to prevent accidental wastage).



- 10 -
4.09      Investment, to be financed by LDMC, would include construction,
fencing, water troughs, pumps and piping (see Annex 4 Table 1). Construction,
planning, supervising and contracting service to village councils requiring
water points would be provided under contract to LDMC by the existing and
experienced construction units of the MAF Irrigation Department and Rural
Water Supply Division of Public Works Department. The basis of selection
of villages (by LDMC) would be:
(a) the suitability of the topography, soil type and catchment
area for the proposed construction;
(b) the formally expressed wish of the village council to
undertake construction of water points and evidence,
satisfactory to LDMC, of the financial means to pay for
them and of the technical ability of the village to
maintain them;
(c) the willingness of the villagers to provide the labor
required to build and maintain the structure.
The Livestock Development Centers and Animal Research
4.10      Though pasture and livestock research in Burma has been deficient,
local trials show that new animal husbandry and farm management systems hold
promise for expanding agricultural development in Burma. Livestock pasture
research is discussed further in Annex 5.
4.11      The project would provide funds to LDMC for innovative research
on pasture development, livestock husbandry and farm management and a
small team would be established on the LDMC farm near Rangoon, primarily
to investigate:
(a) grassland improvement;
(b) breed improvement;
(c) simple mineral and protein feed supplementation;
(d) integration of livestock into smallholder cropping
systems.
4.12      Because of the lack of Burmese experience in this field, the team
would be led by a senior research officer to be financed under the credit,
who would be internationally recruited, with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (see terms of refer-
ence in Annex 13 Appendix 2). Research consultants, satisfactory to IDA,
would also be financed under the credit and called upon as necessary to
help resolve specific problems. IDA would be given an opportunity to
comment on terms of reference for research programs under the project.
During negotiations suitable assurances were obtained.



- 11 -
4.13      Research field work would be largely carried out on ten LDC dis-
tributed throughout the project area and to be developed under the project
(Annex 5). Each LDC, selected from among 24 existing GOB livestock farms,
would comprise about 400 ac and already contain a small draft/beef cattle
herd, a piggery and a poultry unit. Each would require the importation
of small numbers of improved stock. Four of the ten LDC would also have a
small dairy unit. In addition to their research function, these units would
provide zonal centers for multiplying improved stock and pasture seed, and
for local livestock extension and demonstration. Each LDC would need a
tractor for pasture development and seed production, though seed harvesting
and preparation would be largely by hand (Annex 5 para 1.10). GOB Farm
Mechanization Corporation and LDMC would provide mechanics for major and
minor repair and maintenance. Assurances were obtained that GOB will under-
take to allocate and maintain in good working order at least one tractor with
a minimum of 40 HP on each LDC, and on each of the two state dairy farms, and
that a specific development plan for each farm, submitted to IDA for comment,
would form the basis for disbursement against this project component.
Dairy Development
4.14      Project dairy development would be based on upgrading small-
holder indigenous animals by AI, with semen from specialized exotic dairy
breeds. Experience of Al in Burma already suggests this is the best approach.
Improved pasture and fodder production, and adequate disease control, would
be concomitant developments. The creation of a series of dairy cooperatives
supplying milk to, and receiving key services from, a centralized processing
facility is the ultimate objective. As local experience of specialized
dairy production is extremely limited, the project would include two 200-
cow GOB dairy farms near Rangoon and Mandalay and four 50-cow dairy units
on selected LDC (Annex 5 para 1.08). The main function of these units would
be to act as focal points for dairy cattle multiplication and development
and to provide local experience in the management techniques of specialized
milk production (Annex 6).
4.15      A new 30,000 1/day dairy plant would be constructed near Rangoon
and a feasibility study carried out for a second plant near Mandalay (Annex
6). Construction of the Rangoon plant would be phased with increases in
project milk production resulting from crossbreeding and pasture improve-
ment, and it would be designed to permit expansion. About ten milk collec-
tion points would be established around Rangoon, which would also provide
AI service and sell balanced feed. GOB would engage a firm of consultants
'to survey the Rangoon milkshed for optimal location of the milk collection
centers, prepare specifications for the plant based upon the survey, prepare
and supervise a turn-key contract for construction and supply and installa-
tion of the equipment, assist in the initial operation of the plant and undier-
take a survey of the milkshed and market of the city of Mandalay; terms of
reference for the consultants are in Annex 13, Appendix 3. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that qualifications for these consultants
would be satisfactory to IDA.



- 12 -
Education, Training and Technical Assistance
4.16      Because past educational policies concentrated on crop production,
training in animal production in Burma is particularly weak. The Faculty
of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science, and the Veterinary Training In-
stitute now have formal responsibility for training livestock technicians
and are now attracting more students than can be adequately employed (Annex
7). In order to improve the quality of training, the project would provide
for a critical review of the length, content and quantitative output of
existing training programs in animal health and livestock technology by
livestock education consultants acceptable to IDA. Subject to this review,
the project would provide for overseas fellowships for teaching staff, the
purchase of additional facilities, equipment, books and periodicals for
teaching purposes and the provision of consultant staff to strengthen
teaching programs. The livestock education consultants have been selected
in consultation with IDA and provision made for their early appointment.
The project would provide retroactive financing for these consultants up to
a maximum of US$100,000. It would be a condition of disbursement of this
project component that GOB and IDA had agreed on an overall program of
veterinary education to be developed under the project. Suitable assurances
were obtained.
Environmental Impact
4.17      The project would have no adverse effect upon the environment.
Pasture cover and controlled grazing would help to prevent erosion (para
4.06 and Annex 2). Effluent from the milk plant to be constructed (para
4.15 and Annex 6) would be treated to prevent water contamination.



- 13 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
5.01      Total estimated five-year project cost is K 80 M (US$12.8 M), in-
cluding contingencies, of which about US$6.4 M is foreign exchange. Details,
summarized below, are in Annex 8.
Thousand kyats        Thousand US Dollars
1976/80                                                             Foreign
Cost Items         Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Veterinary, AI and
Extension Services   8,434   8,752   17,186   1,352   1,402   2,754          50
Vaccine Production       325   3,874    4,199        52      621      673     92
Pasture Development   2,105       624    2,729      337      100     437      23
Water Supply             437      309       746       70      50      120     42
Livestock Centers      3,469   3,173    6,642       556      509   1,065      48
Dairy Development:
Rangoon Dairy Plant 4,063   7,516   11,579        651   1,205   1,856       63
Dairy Farms          1,614      796    2,410      259      127     386      33
Sub-total         5,677   8,312   13,989       910   1,332   2,242
Education & Training  2,132   5,263    7,395        342      843   1,185      71
Sub-total        22,579  30,307   52,886   3,619   4,857   8,476         57
Import Duties & Taxes 6,845    -         6,845   1,097       -      1,097     -
Total Project Cost 29,424  30,307   59,731   4,716   4,857   9,573          51
Physical
Contingencies           929      914    1,843      148      147     295      50
Sub-total        30,353  31,221   61,574   4,864   5,004   9,868         51
Price
Contingencies         9,743   8,581   18,324   1,561   1,375   2.936         47
GRAND TOTAL         40,096  39,802   79,898   6,425   6,379  12,804         50
(Rounded Millions)     (40.0)  (40.0)   (80.0)   (6.4)   (6.4)  (12.8)



- 14 -
5.02      Cost estimates are based on prices during appraisal.  To these
prices contingencies were added reflecting the inflationary trends during
1975 (16% for civil works and 20% for other items) and the estimated impact
of the January 1975 kyat devaluation. Further price contingencies, based
on projected inflation rates in Burma and countries supplying equipment
and services over the five year project period, were included on the basis
of the following assumptions:
1976       1977-79
Price increase %
Civil works                        14           12
Other items                        10            8
Physical contingencies of 10% have been added to civil works, and 5% to util-
ities.
B. Financing
5.03      Proposed financing (Annex 9) is based on IDA providing 100% of
the foreign exchange cost of vehicles, farm and research equipment, im-
ported livestock semen and veterinary medicines, overseas training, and
consultant services and 80% of total costs for construction and equipment
of the Rangoon milk plant complex, and for the teaching and dormitory facil-
ities, veterinary posts and water development. This would cover about 58%
of total project costs leaving 42% for GOB; net of taxes, IDA would finance
64% of project costs and GOB 36%. The IDA contribution would equal total
foreign exchange cost of US$6.4 M and US$1.1 M (or 17% of US$6.4 M local
currency costs equivalent). IDA financing of this modest level of local
costs is recommended in order to respond to GOB's efforts in undertaking
this innovative and comprehensive development of the livestock sector.
5.04      GOB financial contribution to the project including import taxes
and duties would be K 33.1 M (I"S$5.3 M) divided into loan funds of K 13.2 M
to LDMC for revenue producing activities and K 19.9 in incremental budget
allocations to DAHVS (K 13.8 M) IAHVS (K 2.4 M) and LDMC (K 3.7 M) for non
revenue producing services. In sumnary project financing, including con-
tingencies, would be:



- 15 -
US Dollars
IDA                 GOB                Total
LDMC
Farms, milk plant, water                                                   1
and pasture operations    3,200                2,150                5,350-
Research                       200                  550                 750
DAHVS                          2,650                2,200               4,85()
]Iinistry of Education          1,450                 4001850
Total                     7,500               5,300               12,800)
/1   Of which US$2.5 M equivalent would be IDA funds onlent to LDMC by
GOB under a subsidiary loan agreement.
5.05      IDA funds of US$2.5 M to LDMC for revenue producing activities
(milk production and stock and seed sales) would be channelled from GOB
through a project account in the Ministry of Planning and Finance under
a subsidary loan agreement for a period of 15 years, including 5 years
grace at the prevailing rate of interest of 8.5%. Suitable assurances were
obtained that this agreement would be finalized prior to Credit effectiveness.
IDA funds to LDMC, DAHVS and IAHVS for non-revenue producing activities would
be disbursed directly against certified statements of expenditure submitted
by the Project Policy Committee through the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
5.06      GOB would bear the exchange risk on all project funds, except
those on-lent to LDMC under the subsidiary loan agreement.
C. Procurement
5.07      In the absence of private contractors, civil works in the public
sector (US$2.6 M) would be executed by GOB force account or by the GOB
Construction Corporation. The individual works such as corral and water
point construction and LDC farm building are small (about $1.1 1I for 70
items) and spread over the project area physically and in time; executing
departments possess sufficient experience and expertise to construct these.
Contracts for equipment, vehicles, and services (US$4.5) above US$50,000
would be awarded after international competitive bidding (ICB) following
Bank/IDA guidelines. Milk processing equipment and its installation would
be procured on turn-key contract, also by ICB (para 4.15). Smaller items,
for which ICB is not practicable, would be purchased following Government
procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. As there are no local
firms in Burma representing foreign suppliers, quotations would be obtained



- 16 -
directly from overseas manufacturers. The civil works of the milk proc-
essing plant costing about US$0.5 H1 would be sub-contracted to GOB Con-
struction Corporation. The Corporation would also construct educational
buildings (US$0.6 M) and research buildings (US$0.3 M). Bids for imported
livestock, vaccine, medicine and semen (US$1.85 M) would be sought from at
least three countries, to be selected in agreement with IDA, where animals
of the required types are readily available. Remaining project costs (US$2.5
M) would be staff and operating expenses for GOB departments and agencies.
5.08      Tender documents for contracts in excess of K 625,000 (US$100,000)
to be financed by IDA, would be submitted to IDA for approval and assurances
were obtained accordingly.
D. Disbursement
5.09      Disbursement from the IDA Credit would be made as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditure or 80% of local expend-
iture on imported goods procured locally: transport,
farm, milk processing, training and research equip-
ment, livestock, semen and veterinary medicines;
(b) 80% of construction costs of the Rangoon milk
plant;
(c) 80% of total expenditures for civil works executed
by force account (teaching and boarding facilities,
veterinary posts and water development); and
(d) 100% of contract expenditures of consultants engaged
for the project and of overseas training and travel for
Burmese staff.
A disbursement schedule appears in Annex 10.
5.10      Disbursement for civil works executed by force account (5.09(c))
would be made against certified statements of expenditures submitted by
GOB. Documentation supporting these expenditures would be retained by the
Project Policy Committee for review by IDA supervision missions. All other
disbursements would be against appropriate documentation. Any funds re-
maining undisbursed at the end of the five year disbursement period, in-
cluding funds released should UNDP participate, would be used for further
livestock development by agreement with GOB, or would be cancelled.



- 17 -
E. Accounts and Audit
5.11      Assurances were obtained that in addition to regular accounts,
separate accounts and records for the project, adequate to reflect expend-
itures and progress, would be kept by each GOB department and agency
responsible for project execution, including LDMC, DAHVS, IAHVS and the
Ministry of Education. LDMC accounts would be audited in accordance with
normal GOB practice. Copies of all summary project accounts and records
would be forwarded to the secretariat of the Project Policy Committee and
serve as a basis for project evaluation. The GOB Central Audit and Inspection
Office (CAIO) audits all GOB Department, boards and corporations.
5.12      Within four months of the end of the financial year copies of
LDMC unaudited accounts would be submitted to IDA; comprehensive audits
would be carried out in a manner acceptable to IDA and audited accounts
and audit reports would be submitted as soon as available, but not later
than nine months from the financial year end. Suitable assurances were
obtained.
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
6.01      Primary responsibility for GOB livestock development has tradi-
tionally been assigned to DAHVS. Headed by a Director reporting to the
Minister, this unit has reasonable technical expertise but inadequate
funds. Its work program is heavily orientated towards animal health.
Animal production and pasture development are not the direct responsibil-
ities either of DAHVS or any other unit of MIAF, and key problems in this
area have remained unresolved. Animal production has received little
organized support, and limited investment in this sector has not always
addressed specific problems and potentials. Essentially, insufficient
planning, a lack of coordination among Departments and inadequate emphasis
on key priorities account for poor livestock productivity.
6.02      The project would improve this situation by providing, to DAHVS,
increased resources and authority for a more effective animal health service
and by transferring to a new agency (LDMC) the responsibility for livestock
production, non-veterinary livestock development (e.g. pasture development,
water point construction and feed processing) and livestock product process-
ing and marketing.
6.03      Project and LDMC organization are outlined in Annex 12, Charts 1
and 2. The new agency has been established with statutes acceptable to the
Association, and with powers and organization conducive to sound economic
and financial practice. The Managing Director, General ilanager and Chief
Accountant have been selected. LDMC has the right to raise capital and to



- 18 -
borrow adequately, to enter into business contracts, to retain earnings and
build reserves, to propose and implement adequate service conditions for
staff, to have the Managing Director's recommendations approved by a
specific authority of Government, and to hold land use rights. The Man-
aging Director is responsible to the Minister of Agriculture. He is to
be assisted by a general manager, responsible for day to day operations.
A chief accountant, experienced in commercial operations, is responsible
to the managing director, through the general manager, for accounting and
financial matters.
6.04      The Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science (IAHVS),
the university training center for veterinarians, is a semi-autonomous
faculty of the University of Rangoon and responsible to the Minister of
Education. Disbursement of IDA funds for improving the training program
and facilities of this Institute would be contingent upon the recommenda-
tions of veterinary education consultants, acceptable to IDA and under
TOR acceptable to IDA, who would review current training programs (see
para 4.16) and upon GOB and IDA agreeing to the major recommendations of
these consultants.
Overall Control and Project Monitoring
6.05      A Project Policy Committee, responsible to the Minister MAF and
comprising representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and Forests,
Planning and Finance, and Education, would lay down appropriate policies
and supervise and monitor project implementation. The Deputy Minister,
MAF, would be its chairman and would be responsible for organizing quar-
terly meetings of the Committee, whose functions would be:
(a)  ensuring project adherence to accepted technical,
financial and economic standards for activities;
(b)  identification and resolution of problems hindering
project implementation;
(c)  coordinating, supervising, monitoring and evaluating
project activities, and preparing a follow up project.
6.06      To carry out these functions the Policy Committee would have a
snall secretariat headed by a livestock project coordinator. During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that this post would be filled in consultation
with IDA and that the PPC had been formed and the coordination appointed
prior to Credit effectiveness. This Secretariat would also assist the
three project agencies to carry out ICB procurement procedures and would
submit disbursement applications to IDA on behalf of GOB.



- 19 -
Project Execution
6.07      DAHVS, under its Director, would be responsible for veterinary and
scientific services, including: vaccine production; diagnostic units; vet-
erinary field units; and training of field personnel. LDMC, under its Manag-
ing Director, would be responsible for pasture and water point development,
feed concentrate and seed production; artificial insemination and livestock
breeding; the LDC; project dairy farms; milk processing; livestock and live-
stock product marketing. The Ministry of Education would be responsible
through its Faculty of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science for strength-
ening the training of veterinary and animal husbandry students. About 19
man-years of consultant staff (mainly in livestock and veterinary education
and dairy plant design and construction) would be engaged by GOB to assist
in the implementation of key project components (Annex 13).
6.08      Project funds supplied to the Ministry of Education and to DAHVS
would be additional allocations to annual budget expenditures and would be
non repayable to Government. As a guide to annual budgeting for the proj-
ect, and to promote sound planning, DAHVS and the Veterinary Faculty would
prepare annual plans which detail the work to be undertaken under the proj-
ect in the coming fiscal year and which summarize the work completed and
the production results obtained.
VII. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
Marketing and Prices
7.01      The principal marketable benefit from the project would be an
increased supply of milk, about 11,000 tons per year. This incremental
production would be largely consumed in Rangoon, a seriously undersupplied
market presently receiving about 18,000 tons of fluid milk per year. No
difficulties are envisaged in selling the project output at market prices
forecast at about 80% of current market prices (Annex 14). Most project
milk would be marketed directly by the new milk processing plant to con-
sumers in Rangoon. These sales would complement those of existing market
traders. Sale prices of milk and milk products would be sufficient to
ensure both the financial independence of the milk plant and competitive
marketing of project output. The Statute of LDMC gives it the right to
establish purchase and sale prices of its products, the procurement price
of milk and charges for services to suppliers in accordance with sound
economic and financial practices.
7.02      The incremental supply of draft animals, surplus to village
requirements, would be limited throughout the project period and would
be well within the absorptive capacity of the existing marketing system.



- 20 -
Impact on Government Revenues
7.03      The project would increase GOB tax revenue through import taxes
on imported machinery, equipment and material, income tax payable by LDMC
on its gross profit and sales tax on milk sold ex-plant Rangoon (for details
see Annex 15). The increased number and quality of draft animals would not
be a source of direct tax income but would increase paddy production and
rice exports, a major source of GOB revenue. Although present GOB policy
is to provide vaccine and drugs to small farmers at no charge and to limit
land and water taxation   GOB is planning to discontinue this free distri-
bution, which is equivalent to a production subsidy. If the subsidy is
limited to the first five years of farmer participation in the project,
GOB budget would show an annual surplus of more than K 13 M as of year 13
of the project. LDMC activities would show an early operating surplus which
would be used to repay GOB loans from Year 6 and enable repayment to be com-
pleted by Year 15 (Annex 12, Tables 2 and 3).
Financial Results
7.04      In assessing revenues and costs, market rates at the time of
appraisal (October 1974) updated to February 1975, have been used and pro-
jected cash flows are based on the assumption that the terms of trade of
Burmese agriculture will remain unchanged. A general annual inflationary
trend of 7.5% from 1980 has been assumed.
7.05      The financial implications of project activities to LDMC opera-
tions are shown in Annex 12. The overall LDMC cash flow would be satis-
factory (Annex 12, Table 3). Individual operations have the following
financial rates of return:
Percent
Rangoon milk plant (Annex 6)                      31
LDC (Annex 5)                                     13
Dairy farms (Annex 6)                             16
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Increased Production
8.01      Direct participation by farmers in the field services to be devel-
oped under the project would increase annual livestock production in the
project area by some 27,000 animals and 11,000 tons of milk. The land area
for communal grazing to be brought under improved pasture by direct project
activities would be about 20,000 ac and the number of bovines, whose produc-
tivity would be increased thereby, would be about 30,000. Production in-
creases from this pasture would be reflected primarily in increased draft



- 21 -
capacity, but also as a liveweight increase equivalent to about 70 lb of
incremental gain per ac per year, about 1.4 M lb annually worth about
K 25.6 M (Annex 3). Additional benefits would also accrue from increased
pig and poultry production resulting from LDC activities. The total value
of incremental output at full development is projected at K 61 M per annum,
of which about 40% would be a foreign exchange saving (on milk imports).
8.02      Assessing the indirect benefits that improved draft power would
have on crop yields in the project area is beset by many intangibles and
has been excluded from the ROR calculation. An estimate of the likely
importance of project caused improvements in draft power on crop yields
may,however,be made as follows:  a shortage of agricultural draft power
is a major constraint to increased paddy production. Draft animals per-
form about 90% of all seedbed preparation work. The common varieties of
rice planted are photosensitive and yields show a marked depression with
late planting, amounting to about 300-400 lb/ac. A team of oxen can prepare
up to a maximum of 10 ac during a cultivation season. Assuming improved and/
or additional oxen advance the average planting date by 25%, incremental pro-
duction would result from a yield increase of about 350 lbs/ac on the last
3 to 5 acres planted per bullock pair. The total incremental paddy produc-
tion from 30,000 pair of improved oxen might therefore be expected to be
about 40 million lbs valued at about K 18 million. This benefit has not
been taken into account in the economic analysis of the project nor is it
included in the K 61 M benefits referred to in para 8.01.
8.03      Water point development in 50 villages would benefit about 3,500
farm families (about 20,000 people) and enable them to improve both livestock
numbers and productivity as well as personal health and well-being. Measures
to improve breed quality, livestock and pasture research, vaccine production
extension services and the training of livestock officers would induce in-
creases in on-farm investment and the increased use of improved inputs for
agricultural production. Farmers beyond the direct impact of the field serv-
ice would also benefit by the introduction of improved animals, greater quan-
tities of vaccines, better pastures and more readily available stock water.
The quantitative impact of these changes is difficult to predict, because
the multiplier effect of farm to farm distribution of improved stock and
of seed and better management practices is presently unknown. The project
is essentially innovative and a major function of the project monitoring
unit of the Project Policy Committee would be to assess and quantify pro-
duction increments resulting from measured inputs.
Number of Beneficiaries
8.04      The project would modestly improve the income of a large number
of people. In the Rangoon milkshed some 1,500 dairy farmers would, by Year
4, participate in milk deliveries to the plant and about another 250 farm-
ers would benefit directly from AI and extension services provided by the
milk plant, though not selling milk to the new milk plant. Improved live-
stock services would be available to about 4,000 villages and 250,000 farm



- 22 -
families (Annex 2). Pasture development and water point construction, com-
plementary activities to the expanded livestock field service, would help
350 villages and about 22,000 farm families. Assuming 250,000 beneficiaries
and project benefits of K 61 M per annum, average benefits per family are
about K 244.
Employment
8.05      The project would create minor employment opportunities for un-
skilled labor, e.g. in pasture improvement, water point construction and
the intensification of dairy production, activities for which the project
would have a pioneering role. The new dairy processing plant in Rangoon
would need an additional 200 man-years of employment each year, while each
acre of improved pasture 20,000 ac) would require an incremental input of
10 man-days, and each water point (50 proposed) about 200 man-days. Incre-
mental field services in DAHVS would require about 250 employees and LDMC
about 30.
Project Risk
8.06      The effectiveness of the institutional change proposed, the capac-
ity and willingness of staff to respond to the challenge and opportunity the
project would provide, and farmer response to technical innovation and coop-
eration in livestock production are the areas in which projected results are
at greatest risk, and they would be influenced by numerous factors outside
project management control. Political issues, the economic climate and
agricultural price policy, are likely to be the more important external
influences. Despite the inherent risks, which project organization is
designed to minimize, the project is justified on both economic and social
grounds. It offers the best available method of improving overall live-
stock production in Burma at the present time and of providing a sound
basis for future livestock development.
Economic Returns
8.07      An economic rate of return (ROR(E)) has been calculated for the
major categories of investment under the project and sensitivity analyses
assess the effect of higher costs and lower benefits, particularly changes
in the numbers of farmers participating and in milk prices ex-plant. Meth-
odology and rate of return statements are in Annex 16. Results were found
to be satisfactory with an overall estimated rate of return of about 26%
over a 15 year period.  The project is not particularly sensitive to cost
or price assumptions. Annex 16 Table 3 summarizes sensitivity analyses:



- 23 -
10%      ROR (E)
Percent
Costs                       +          20
Benefits                    -           19
Participation               -          24
Participation               +          29
Milk price                   -         23
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations the following principal assurances were obtained:
(a)  within six months of credit signing consultants
would be employed with qualifications and experi-
ence and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA to advise on:
(i) Production of Biologicals (4.04);
(ii) Reproductive Diseases (4.04);
(iii) Diagnostic Procedures (4.04);
(iv) Livestock/Pasture Research (4.12);
(v)  Dairy Development Processing and Marketing
(4.15).
(b)  the following positions would be filled in consulta-
tion with IDA by qualified and experienced personnel:
(i) Director of Project Field Services; DAHVS (4.03);
(ii) Senior Research Officer, LDMC (4.12);
(c)  a Project Policy Committee comprising MAF, Mlinistry
of Education and Ministry of Planning and Finance
would be formed under the chairmanship of the
Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests, that
this committee would have overall responsibility
for implementing, monitoring and evaluating the
project and for preparing a follow-up project
(6.05); and, to carry out its functions, the
committee would have a small secretariat, headed
by a qualified livestock project coordinator to be
appointed in consultation with IDA (6.06).



- 24 -
9.02      During negotiations it was also agreed that conditions of credit
effectiveness would be:
(a) the subsidiary loan agreement between GOB and LDMC
had been executed (5.05);
(b) the Project Policy Committee had been established
and had recruited the livestock project coordinator
(6.06),
9.03      It was also agreed that a condition of disbursement against the
Veterinary Education project component would be that an overall review of
veterinary education had been completed by consultants acceptable to IDA,
and that GOB and IDA had agreed on an overall program of veterinary educa-
tion to be developed under the project (4.16).
9.04      With the indicated assurances, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$7.5 M.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Agriculture and the Livestock Industry
A. Farm Size and Land Tenure
1.01      Some 85% of the 29 M Burmese people live in rural areas; mainly in
70,000 villages of about 65 households. Small scale farming predominates;
the size of the median farmholding is about 5 ac, and only farms above this
size now produce any quantity of marketable surplus. The estimated number of
farmholdings in Burma is about 4.5 M. Paddy is grown on 44% of all farms
and comprises 53% of all cropland. Dryland cereals, pulses, groundnuts and
sesame are the other crops of major importance.
Table 1.1: RURAL HOUSEHOLDS CLASSIFIED BY TYPE AND SIZE OF HOLDING
Size Class    Percent Distribution (%)
(Acres)      Households       Cropland
0 -  2          36              8
0 -  5          28             18
over 5          36             74
Source:  Settlement and Land Records Department, Ministry of Agricul-
tural and Forests, 1970/71.
1.02      Before Independence in 1948, most cultivated land was farmed by
tenants and hired labor on large land holdings. Land reform laws were
enacted after Independence providing for land nationalization, elimination
of private tenancy, distribution of land to tenants and hired workers, and
changes in land taxation. Village land committees were established to
assign usufruct rights and organize the collection of land revenue. Indi-
vidual land ownership is not permitted except for plantation land growing
tree crops. Land rents and absentee ownership are illegal. The cultivated
area allocated to a farm family is limited to what it can cultivate (usually
less than 50 ac). Land use rights cannot be inherited, but village land
committees customarily assign usufruct rights of deceased cultivators to sons
or other members of their families. If land is left idle or abandoned,
village committees assign land use rights to farmers willing to cultivate
it. Subdivision or fragmentation of land holdings continues, and most farmers
cultivate land in a number of small plots with individual fields or plots
averaging about 0.5 ac.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
1.03      Changes in land tenure laws, associated with farm subdivision and
increasing population pressure have led to a 57% increase in the total number
of rural holdings in the last decade. The average size of all rural holdings
declined from over 7 ac of cropland to 5.3 ac in this period. This rapid
increase in the number of land holdings has augmented deficiencies in the
number and distribution of draft cattle. Despite a very large reduction
in the number of holdings with over 50 acres, cropland is still distributed
quite unevenly among rural households. Most of the break-up of large holdings
occurred on paddy land, 70% of which is located in the Delta. There was some
increase in the total area under cultivation in the early 1960's following
reclamation in the Delta and other coastal areas with minor embankments and
some jungle clearing, but in the last few years the area of cropland culti-
vated per rural household has decreased proportionately with the increase in
population.
1.04      Although Government has made a major effort to improve health care,
education, water supply, sanitation, transportation and other social services
in rural areas, living conditions are still not easy. Market places, primary
schools, community centers and dispensaries are usually poorly equipped and
understaffed. Most villages also lack a clean and reliable water supply and
have rudimentary sanitation. Village shops contain few consumer goods and
provide little incentive for farmers to increase cash incomes and save money.
Only about 3% of rural villages have electricity.
1.05      Nutrition surveys indicate that most rural people have adequate
diets in terms of energy intake but the consumption of protein food of animal
origin is extremely low. Among large sections of the population, there is
an iron deficiency anaemia, and among children there are serious nutrient
deficiencies of calcium, vitamins A, B complex and C. These deficiencies
contribute to the high infant mortality rate (63 per 1,000 live births).
Increased milk consumption would markedly improve diet quality.
B. Government Organization
1.06      The Revolutionary Government of the Union of Burma (GOB) assumed
control in 1962 when it rejected parliamentary democracy and abolished all
elective bodies and political organizations. After 11 years of government
by the Revolutionary Council, a Constitution was adopted in a nationwide
referendum in December 1973. Parliament is vested with supreme executive,
legislative and judicial authority. During the recess of Parliament, the
Council of State exercises power on its behalf.
1.07      Under the new constitution, a hierarchial organization has been
established under the aegis of the People's Councils as the primary means
of decentralizing the government of the nation. The Councils extend down to
the village tract level, through State or Divisional People's Councils and
Township People's Councils.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
1.08      Burma is divided into seven divisions (Sagaing, Tenasserim, Pegu,
Magwe, Mandalay, Rangoon and Irrawaddy) and seven states (Kachin, Kayah, Chin,
Mon, Arakan and Shan). States or divisions comprise a collection of townships
and village tracts. The lowest administrative unit in the towns and cities
is the ward, and in the countryside the village tract comprising from 2-10
villages. Agricultural development is the direct responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF). The Ministries of National Plan-
ning and Finance, and of Cooperatives also play a key role in the formation
of agricultural policy, while Trade Corporation 1 acts as the main procure-
ment agency for agricultural crops.
C. Crops, Land Use and Regional Characteristics
1.09      Only 16% of the total land area of Burma is cultivated.  Most of the
remainder is forest and grassland. The principal crop areas are located in
the river basins of Central Burma and the Delta and the coastal areas of
Lower Burma. Paddy is by far the most important crop grown, accounting for
55% of the total sown acreage. About 70% of the rice is grown in Lower Burma.
Oilseed crops - groundnuts and sesame - rank second in importance and pulses
third.  These crops are grown principally in Central Burma.  The industrial
crops - cotton, jute, sugarcane, and tobacco - together account for less
than 5% of the total sown acreage and only a little over 6% of total crop
value.  Burma also grows chillies, garlic, onions, tea, coffee, rubber and
many kinds of fruits and vegetables. These account for 10% of the sown
acreage, but contribute almost 25% of the total vvalue of crop production.
Table 1.2: ACREAGES, YIELDS, AND PRODUCTION TRENDS OF MAJOR CROPS, 1972
Sown Area            Yield per    Production Change
Crops               Thousand ac.          Acre (lb)       1963-1972 (%)
Paddy                       12,294               1,514             0.2
Other cereals                1,067                 315            -3.5
Pulses                       1,576                  380           -0.4
Groundnuts                   1,735                 681             4.1
Sesame                       2,510                  149            5.4
Cotton                         467                  78            -5.5
Jute                           115                 634            19.4
Sugarcane                      237                   13 (tons)     3.4
Tobacco                        136                 747            -0.6
All other                    7,204                  -               -
TOTAL             22,341
Source:  Computed from data reported in Agricultural Statistics, 1969-70
to 1971-72, the Government of the Union of Burma.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
1.10      Paddy production has been almost stagnant since 1963, while cotton,
wheat and maize production has declined. The increase in production recorded
for groundnuts, sesame, jute, sugarcane, onions, chillies and horticultural
crops was largely due to an expansion in area sown. Crop yields are generally
low (Table 1.2).
1.11      Land use and types of farming differ widely among regions because
of differences in climate, topography, and soils. The country has three
major geomorphological divisions: the Western Hills, the Central Belt, and
the Shan Plateau which continues southward to Tenasserim. The Central Belt
comprising the three main river basins (the Irrawaddy, the Sitang and the
Salween) was formed by the mass of sediments carried by these rivers. It
includes the fertile Delta facing the Bay of Bengal to the west and the
Andaman Sea to the south. The climate in Burma is monsoonal except in the
higher areas. The southwest monsoon brings heavy rains during May-October
but the remainder of the year is relatively dry. Rainfall varies from 200
inches a year in some coastal areas to about 100 inches in the Delta, 80
inches in the east, and less than 40 inches in the central-dry zone which is
in the rain shadow of the Arakan mountains to the south. Supplementary
irrigation is used for rice in the dry-zone, but elsewhere precipitation is
sufficient for cultivation of one rainfed crop in the monsoon season. The
Western Hills and Shan Plateau are of little economic importance at present
but have long-term potentials for livestock and forestry development once
security problems are overcome.
1.12      The irrigated area increased from 1.4 M ac in 1962/63 to about
2.2 M ac today and now accounts for about 10% of the total area sown. Only
about 14% of the irrigated land is double cropped due to a lack of water
storage facilities. About 75% of all irrigated land is used for paddy, 9%
for jute, 6% for cotton and 10% for other crops. Almost all the jute, 30%
of the cotton, and 18% of the sugarcane are grown on irrigated land. About
two-thirds of the irrigated land is supplied with water by canals, 11% by
pumps, 8% by tanks, and 14% by wells and other means. The increase in the
number of small low lift pumps has been a major factor making possible an
expansion of jute production in the Delta. About 80% of the land irrigated
by water pumps has been used to grow jute.
Table 1.3: LAND USE
(thousand acres)
1937-41
Average  1962/63  1971/72  1972/73
Total area sown      18,686    20,697   22,701   22,420
Harvested area       17,316    19,309   20,721   19,671
Irrigated area        1,503      1,408    2,199    2,198
Fallow                3,838      4,910    5,108    5,171
Cultivable waste-
land                  -          -     21,254   21,079
Source:  Report to the People, the Government of the
Union of Burma, 1973/74, pp. 31, 45, 76 and 78.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
D. Livestock Production
1.13      Livestock production increased significantly in the years imme-
diately following Independence but has been stagnant, and in the case of
milk and mutton has declined, over the last five years (Table 1.4). The
total number of cattle increased from 5.2 M in 1960 to 7.2 M in 1973. The
number of buffalo increased from 1.0 M to 1.6 M. In spite of these increases,
the total liveweight of meat animals slaughtered still amounts to only about
3 kg per person compared with 15 kg for fish. Detailed estimates of changes
in fish production are not available but it is believed that the total fish
supply in Rangoon more than doubled during the last ten years.
Table 1.4:  LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
(thousand tons)
1961/62  1964/65  1967/68  1971/72  1972/73
Milk                   114       128      186       153       153
Beef                    18        25       25        27        26
Mutton                   3         6        7         6        3
Pork                     8        11       19        25        23
Chicken and duck        20        23       39        49       49
Eggs (million)         302       245      403       499      499
Source:  Report to the People, the Government of the Union of
Burma, 1973/74, page 92.
1.14      About 50% of the present bovine population are located in the five
central divisions of central Burma.   Sagaing Division in the northwest and
Mon and Tenasserim in the Southeast contain an additional 2 M bovines. The
residual 2 M head are distributed among the peripheral states and particularly
in the Shan States (see Map).



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Table 1.5: CATTLE AND BUFFALO BY STATE AND DIVISION
(thousands)
t Pegu                            1,264
( Magwe                           1,171
Central ( Mandalay                         1,203
Burma   ( Rangoon                             24
( Irrawaddy                         870
Sagaing                         1,517
Mon                                80
Tenasserim                        414
Kachin                            204
Kayah                              50
Chin                               54
Karen                             222
Arakan                            606
Shan                              952
8,631
1.15      Official estimates of the livestock population are shown in
Table 1.6 and the number of trained draft animals in Table 1.7. There has
been an average annual increase of 4.2% of draft buffalo and 2.6% of draft
cattle during the last ten years.
1.16      Buffalo are mainly located in the high rainfall areas of the
Delta, and the Tenasserim, Kachin and Shan States. Cattle, while widely
distributed, have the highest concentrations in Middle and Upper Burma
where there are extensive grasslands, and a lower incidence of foot and
mouth disease.  Pigs occur most commonly in Lower Burma and sheep and goats
in the dry areas of Upper Burma. A typical farm family would raise one or
two cattle for draft purposes, a few pigs and 6 to 12 head of poultry.
Table 1.6: LIVESTOCK NUMBERS
(thousands)
1962/63         1967/68         1972/73
(estimate)
Cattle                  5696            6557            7234
Buffalo                 1061            1462            1601
Goats                   448              695             569
Pigs                     745            1175            1489
Sheep                    111             224             179
Fowls                   na               -             16068
Ducks                   na               840            3536
Source:  Agricultural Statistics, Government of the Union of Burma
1969/70, 1970/71, 1971/72
Report to the People, Government of the Union of Burma
1973/74 p. 89.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
1.17      Local cattle, many of Indian origin, are of Bos Indicus type.  They
are very heterogeneous in appearance; Shweni cattle form the only local pure
breed. These are roan to golden in color, small sized, strong and hardy and
found mainly in middle Burma. These cattle normally produce milk sufficient
only to feed their calves, their average daily milk yield is 3.6 lb with a
butter fat content of 5-7%, and their lactation period is short (6-8 months),.
The calving rate is reputed to be a relatively high but calf mortality reduces
weaning rates to about 50%. Birth-weights range from 30-40 lb, growth rates
are poor, and animals attain mature weights of 600-900 lb for males and
450-650 lb for females about 4-5 years of age. The cattle are well adapted
to marked seasonal variations in feed supply and have fairly strong resistance
to most forms of foot and mouth disease.
1.18      The local buffalo have almost twice the liveweight of local cattle,
and are similar to those in other parts of South-East Asia. They have a
greater working capacity than oxen and are better suited to work in wet low-
land areas. They are considered more resistant to disease than cattle and
better able to subsist on poor quality fodder. Calving percentages are
about 55%. The Burmese buffalo produces about 8 lb of milk per day over a
lactation of 8 months compared with 20 lb from the Murrah (Indian) buffalo,
with which it is occasionally crossed for milk production.
1.19      Almost all draft males are castrated around five years of age when
their neck muscles have fully developed. Bulls and cows are tethered together
and mating takes place indiscriminately. Young calves are suckled by their
mothers and there is no fixed weaning time. In cases where animals are kept
for milk, calves are allowed restricted suckling after 15 days and will suckle
up to 8-10 months of age in order to facilitate the handmilking of the cow.
As better grown young bulls are selectively castrated for draft purposes a
selection pressure for smaller size animals exists in village herds.
1.20      Draft animals perform about 90% of all seedbed preparation work
and haul almost all materials to fields and markets. Official statistics
show that the total number of draft cattle and buffalo increased about one-
third from 1961/62 to 1971/72 (Table 1.7). The total number on hand in
1972/73, 4.2 M, (only a portion are considered good draft animals) is less
than the total number of rural households and an insufficiency of good quality
draft animals is an important constraint to the timely planting of the monsoon
rice crop. The common varieties of rice planted are traditional photosensitive
types whose yield shows a marked depression with late planting (early planted
rice out yields late planted by 300-400 lb per ac). The lack of second
cropping with pulses on late planted paddy land is a further consequence of
inadequate draft power and prolonged cultivation times.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Table 1.7: DRAFT CATTLE AND BUFFALO
(thousands)
1962/63        1968/69         1972/73
Draft cattle           2933            3532           3690
Draft buffalo           381            497             540
Source:  Report to the People, Government of the Union of Burma
1973/74 page 53.
1.21      Each pair of working oxen is used for about 4-5 hours daily in
the cultivation season which starts once sufficient rain has fallen to make
the soil cultivable with the draft power and simple implements available.
An insufficient supply of draft cattle often extends the cultivation period
to halfway through the monsoon period and roughly half the potential growing
season is lost. To plough an acre of paddy normally requires 2 mornings and
each field requires 1 ploughing and 6 harrowings, each occupying 0.5 to 1
morning per ac. The cultivation time per ac is about 6 days, and 10 ac is
the maximum that can be worked by a pair of oxen in a 10 week cultivation
season. Based on those standards some 14 M acres is at, present, about the
maximum area cultivable by oxen in the monsoon crop season in Burma. Im-
provements in the design and structure of cultivation implements and in
harnessing techniques could improve the productivity of Burmese draft animals.
1.22      The contribution of Burma's bovine population to the protein diet
of the bulk of the population is small. Because of low average incomes, the
religious sentiment towards cattle from the predominantly Buddhist population,
and the low productivity of the cattle population very little beef is consumed.
Offtake rates are close to 9% annually, a low figure resulting from weaning
rates of about 5%, and slow growth rates. A substantial improvement in
production is possible. Milk and milk products are acceptable to practically
all segments of the population. Milk production is low, however, and daily
per capita availability (incLuding imports) is about 15 gms (Indian consump-
tion is about 60 gms/day). Total milk production in 1972 from about 300,000
dairy type animals was about 0.67 M tons. Imports of processed milk are
restricted by Government. They have amounted to about K 24 M (US$4 M) annually
in recent years and provide, together with tallow for soap making, the main
agricultural imports of Burma.
1.23      Burmese cattle and buffalo are kept primarily to produce work animals
and relatively little attention has been given to selecting them on the basis
of milk yield. There is evidence, however, to show that the indigenous cow,
when mated to an exotic dairy bull, produces an offspring with a yield poten-
tial vastly superior to its dam. Present dairy production is essentially a
small farmer operation concentrated within a 40 mile radius of the larger
cities. Most of the dairy herds comprise Zebu breeds such as the Red Sindhi
and Tharparker crossed with local cattle. More recently, there has been
some crossbreeding using imported Friesian and Jersey semen. Milk yields of



ANNEX 1
Page 9
indigenous cows are low, 6-7 lb per head per day over a 200 day lactation.
Butter fat averages 3.5% and solids non fats 8.6%. In peri-urban areas, cows
are hand-milked twice per day and in rural villages once per day. There is
no officially organized milk collection system from farms and there are no
cold storage facilities at the delivery centers. In isolated areas, milk
is used to make butter and ghee while the production of a sweetened con-
densed milk by concentration of mil!; and sugar in old enamelled baths over
open fires is becoming common now that dairy imports are so restricted.
There are about 150 "condensaries" of this type in operation and mostly located
in the Mandalay region. Industrial processing is limited to a small and out-
moded Government owned sterilization plant in Rangoon and an equally small
and aged Government condensary near Mandalay. Urban milk supplies are handled
mainly by private vendors and the quality of their product leaves much to
be desired.
1.24      The single most important constraint to an increased number and
quality of the bovine population is the inadequacy of pasture and forage
supplies. Most villages have an area of commercial land used as common
grazing, the area and quality of which varies greatly. In the paddy growing
areas of the Delta, commercial grazing land is limited whereas in the
upland areas it is often extensive. Feed supplies for bovines are based on
natural pasture growth throughout the wet season and mainly rice straw during
the 7 months of the dry season (October to May). The annual feed requirement
of a mature working ox or indigenous breeding cow is the equivalent of
approximately 10 tons of green fodder and 2 tons of straw, while that of a
crossbred milking cow would require an additional one ton of concentrate
mix. In terms of land area each acre of paddy produces about one ton of
straw and each acre of grazing land produces about 5 tons of green material.
A five acre farm, with access to communal grazing, normally produces suf-
ficient feed for about two indigenous cattle. Any increase in this number
would require specific increases in the production of fodder on the farm
unit and/or on communal grazing land. Rice straw has a cash value of K 3-4
for 100 lb, fresh cut grass K 1-5 for a 50 lb bundle and concentrate mixes
cost about K 0.6 per lb.
1.25      Results from recent field trials demonstrate that there is a very
large potential for increasing fodder production through the introduction of
new pasture species. The pasture legume Stylosanthes humilis or annual
stylo has shown particular promise. It flourishes successfully under a
wide range of condition in Burma, producing good yields of high protein
fodder and persists as a closely grazed pasture plant. Black gram (Dolichus
biflorus) is also well adapted to low-rainfall regions and is considered to
have a large potential as a high quality forage crop during the dry season.
The introduced grasses which show the most potential are buffel grass
(Cenchrus ciliaris) and several Brachiarias. Investigational work in the
1930's indicated that alfalfa would thrive under irrigation in middle Burma
but little is currently grown.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
1.26      Where stylo or other improved pastures are established, stocking
capacity and animal performance is markedly increased (calving rate to 75%,
stocking rate to one animal/ha). With stylo, seeding rates of about 4 lb/ac
are required and seeding methods can be as simple as oversowing on burnt
or roughly cultivated land at the beginning of the rainy season. Once
established stylo can withstand heavy grazing and spreads through natural
seeding. Experience to date in Burma shows stylo can be established and
grown successfully without fertilizer application, and improvements in soil
structure fertility are apparent several years after establishment. Seed
produced amDunts to several hundred lb per ac of which about 100 lb can be
readily picked by hand plucking at a cost of about 0.45 per lb.
1.27      The mineral supplementation of breeding animals with phosphorus
is known to increase breeding performance while utilization of straw and
dry season pasture can be greatly enhanced by feeding small quantities of
urea and sulphur. Modifications to current farm and animal management systems
therefore offer a large potential for increasing bovine production.
Pig and Poultry Production
1.28      During the last decade pig production has increased more rapidly
than any other section of the livestock industry. This increase has been
achieved by increasing the productivity of the local native pig by extensive
crossbreeding with exotic breeds, in particular the Berkshire, Duroc Jersey
and the Large Black. As mixed pig feed of reasonable quality is scarce and
expensive, most pigs are raised in villages in two's and three's on rice
bran, banana stem, household scraps and scavenged feed; commercial pig farming
is uncommon.
1.29      Mating of pigs is usually indiscriminate.  Females have a litter
size of 10-12 of which about half survive to weaning at 9-10 weeks of age.
Most males are castrated close to weaning and are sold for slaughter at a
liveweight of about 110 lb when approximately 250 days old. Pigs are usually
intensively raised in small pens of bamboo and thatch and marketed through
middlemen.
1.30      The traditional base for poultry production is the rural village
where farmers raise small flocks of chickens and ducks to supplement farm
income. In the peri-urban areas commercial poultry production has expanded
considerably in recent years. Commercial farms usually raise imported stock
such as New Hamphires and White Leghorns, and produce about 150 eggs per
hen per year. The development of this section of the industry has, however
been hampered by inadequate supplies of imported drugs, vaccines, mineral
and vitamin supplements and quality mixed feed. In spite of these problems
the growth in poultry production appears likely to keep pace with domestic
demand.
1.31      In the village areas fowls and ducks scavenge for feed and receive
household scraps. Production is about 40 small eggs per hen per year. Hens



ANNEX 1
Page 11
of indigenous origin weight about 2 lb and cockerels about 3 lb; surplus
birds are usually sold live at about 6 months in local markets for resale
in bigger cities.
Small Ruminants
1.32      Goats are reared mainly in the dry, hot and badly eroded areas of
Middle Burma. They are usually found in areas unsuited to cattle or buffalo,
and where there are quantities of edible shrub. Over-grazing of the natural
vegetation by goats has added to the serious erosion that occurs in this
central region. There is no stabilized goat breed in Burma. Most are
derived from various crosses with the long eared Indian Jamna Pari breed.
Females produce their first kids about 12-13 months of age and produce three
litters every two years. Kidding is not seasonal and in about 80% of births
twinning occurs. Females are rarely milked. Birth weights of kids are
about 3.5 lb and, at weaning 4-5 months later, 20-25 lb. Mature weights
are attained within two years, but males are usually marketed at 8 months
when they weight 30 or 40 lb. Most males are castrated at an early age
to avoid buyer resistance to full flavored buck meat. The majority of goats
are purchased by middle-men who then sell to slaughter houses in Rangoon
and Mandalay.
1.33      Sheep are of much less importance than goats in the livestock
industry and are mostly to be found in the better areas of Middle Burma and
the dry areas of Upper Burma. They are kept predominantly for meat production,
but yield about 2 lb of coarse hairy wool which fetches 2 K/lb in local
markets.   About 80% of the flocks comprise less than 20 animals, the principal
herders being Indian and Nepalese. The sheep are an indigenous breed, small
framed, big eared and long tailed. Females have a lambing rate of 80%, a
20% twinning rate and a weaning rate of 65%. Mature rams weigh about 50 lb,
and mature females approximately 30-40 lb. Males are sold, castrated, at
18 months and females when they can no longer produce and mother lambs. In
recent years attempts have been made to improve sheep productivity by
cross-breeding with imported breeds, particularly the Australian Corriedale
but the results are still inconclusive.
F. Supporting Technical Services
Veterinary Services
1.34      The more important cattle diseases endemic to Burma include foot
and mouth disease (FMD), haemorrhagic septicaemia, anthrax, blackquarter,
brucellosis, tuberculosis and several tick born fevers; FMD is particularly
important as it occurs mainly at the onset of the monsoon and markedly
reduces the work capacity of affected oxen. With FAO help, a start is being
made on FMD virus typing prior to initiating widespread vaccination. Rinder-
pest was eradicated in 1957 but the threat of reintroduction of this disease



ANNEX 1
Page 12
from neighbouring countries is a continuing one. Newcastle disease, fowl
cholera and coccidiosis are the present major constraints to poultry improve-
ment in village areas. Inadequate control of these diseases is reflected
in the high mortality of livestock over much of the country. Liverfluke
and gastro-intestinal parasites are widespread, the latter being a major
cause of mortality in young stock. Liverfluke and gastro-intestinal parasites
can be controlled by suitable drenching practices while preventive vaccines
can be used to control the more important bacterial and viral diseases.
1.35      As diagnostic facilities are extremely limited the data available
on the economic loss caused by livestock disease is, at best, superficial.
Many disease outbreaks are undiagnosed and vaccine production, carried out
by the Veterinary Department in its Insein laboratory, is insufficient to
provide widespread protection. There is an immediate need for an increased
supply of good quality vaccines and an efficient distribution and vaccination
service to farmers.
1.36      Veterinary drugs and chemo-therapeutic agents are imported by
Trade Corporation 10. Some are distributed free through the Directorate of
Veterinary Services which has 58 dispensaries throughout Burma, and the
remainder sold to farmers through township offices. The severe restric-
tions on imports has meant that there is a critical shortage of essential
drugs and medicines for the treatment of livestock.
1.37      There are about 80 graduate veterinarians in Government service
together with 450 animal health assistants. Approximately 90 diplomates
in animal health and 80 veterinary and animal husbandry graduates are now
produced each year. There are no formal in-service training facilities.
Livestock Development Services
1.38      The Directorate of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests has the main responsibility for developing the
livestock industry. This unit of Government is made up by four main
divisions: Animal Health; Animal Husbandry; Vaccine Production and the
Diploma level Veterinary Training Unit. The poorly equipped field staff of
the Animal Health Division are located at 23 rural centres while the Animal
Husbandry Division operates two Government owned milk plants and 24 Animal
Breeding Farms. Vaccine production and veterinary training are located at
Insein near Rangoon.
1.39      The livestock development programs developed by Government in
recent years have centred on four main activities:
(a) introducing an AI service to upgrade the quality of cattle;
about 350 doses of semen a year are currently used;



ANNEX 1
Page 13
(b)  providing improved livestock, particularly pigs and poultry,
to village producers from the 24 Government breeding farms;
(c)  expanding vaccine production and field veterinary services;
and
(d)  testing and introducing new pasture and forage crops.
1.40      A tiost critical problem at present in the institutional arrange-
ments for the development of the livestock industry is the lack of specific
responsibility by any Department in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
for forage production and research. The Agriculture Corporation makes no
provision for research or extension in forage production whilst the Depart-
ment of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry is mainly concerned with disease
control and animal breeding. In the past few years the Animal Husbandry
Division in the Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry has tried to
fill the gap but its efforts have been limited by available funds and per-
sonnel.
E. Marketing, Slaughtering and Consumption
1.41      Livestock markets exist in main towns and usually operate on one
day eacn week. Animals are sold by private transaction. There are no
auctions or other forms of organized sale and it is generally agreed that there
is considerable collusion between traders. This situation is aggravated by the
domination of close knit ethnic groups in the marketing system. In the case
of oeef and mutton the trade is dominated by Muslims and in the case of pork,
by buddhists and Chinese. Extensive trading in cattle operates between
middlemen who purchase cattle in Upper Burma and then travel the markets
south to Rangoon, buying and selling en route.
1.42      The domestic market is characterized by a consumer preference for
pork, poultry, beef and mutton in that order. The officially recorded average
retail prices of various commodities in Rangoon are shown in Table 8. Mutton
nas nad the mDst rapid price rise over the last five years followed by pork
and fresh fish. Beef prices have not increased as rapidly as the consumer
price index for food and beverages in Rangoon.
1.43      Official statistics concerning the numbers of animals slaughtered
underestimate the actual numbers of animals killed as there is considerable
illicit slaughtering in villages and townships. Slaughter of cattle and
buffaloes is restricted to animals over 16 years of age by the Cattle
Slaughter Provision of the Essential Supplies and Services Act which was en-
acted in 1947 to increase the number of draft animals. Fortunately this act
is laxly enforced by Government, otherwise the productivity of the basic



ANNEX 1
Page 14
national breeding herd would be further reduced by greater competition for
limited feed by non-productive stock. Nonetheless, most of the cattle which
reach the abattoir appear disabled, ailing, very old or barren. Pigs, goats
and sheep provide the main supply of better quality meat.
Table 1.8: SUMMARY OF LIVESTOCK MARKET DATA
Whole-
1961-62-      Per       sale
1973-74      Capita   Prices
Production  Production   Growth Rate       Con-    Rangoon
Category  Unit   (1961-62)  (1973-74)   of Production  sumption   1974
()          (lb)      K/lb
1    Beef      tons    17,283       27,843           4.1          2.1      1.44
2    Pork      tons      7,956       25,506          10.3         1.9      2.55
3    Mutton    tons      4,144        3,770           1.5         0.3      3.40
4    Poultry   tons    12,846        38,089          9.5          2.9      3.16
5    Duck Meat tons      6,974       10,426           3.4         0.8      3.10
6    Milk      tons   112,117      234,860           6.4         17.8      1.09
7    Eggs      '000   302,255      579,412           5.5         19.6      5.08/doz.
Sources:  Report to the People 1972, p. 92.
Selected Monthly Economic Indicators. May and June 1973.
1.44      Rangoon possesses two slaughterhouses, one for cattle, buffalo
and small stock, the other for pigs. Both were constructed in 1888 on
what was then the outskirts of the town. Both are owned and operated by
the Rangoon municipality which provides management staff, ante-mortem and meat
inspection staff, the actual slaughtermen and cleaners. Flaying, dressing
and cutting operations are carried out by employees of the meat traders.
The slaughterhouse has minimal equipment.
1.45      The marketing of cattle and small stock takes place within the
slaughterhouse compound and sales are made privately between traders who have
bought animals from upcountry to the retail butchers of Rangoon. There is
no processing of by-products. Daily slaughter of cattle and buffalo exceeds
100 head and that of sheep and goats is about 500 head.
1.46      The pig slaughterhouse, separated by several miles from the cattle
plant, operates in a similar manner and daily slaughter varies between 250
and 500 head. Both slaughter plants are in need of replacement and relo-
cation once more urgent priorities are fulfilled.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
1.47      Retail meat sales are carried on by private butchers, both wholesale
and retail, who sell their products via market stalls rented from the munici-
pality. Price differentials for different cuts and quality of meat are very
small as methods of preparation and cooking are largely independent of meat
quality.
1.48      There are two main government plants in Burma processing milk products,
one in Rangoon, the other at Maymyo near Mandalay. They have a combined
throughput of about 1,400 tons of fresh milk equivalent per year. Additionally
about 150 small condensaries produce a sweetened milk concentrate for local
sales. The present milk sterilization plant at Rangoon has a maximum
output of about 1,400 1/day. This plant is old and suffers recurring
problems in plant breakdown; it is however, the only source of heat treated
milk in the Rangoon area and has a ready market for a substantially expanded
output.
1.49      The milk processing plant in Rangoon currently buys milk from
farmers at K 2.5/viss (US$0.24)/l and resells it in sterilized form in 10 oz
bottles at K 3.6/viss (US$0.35)/l. Buying and selling prices are constant
throughout the year even though severe shortages occur in the latter part of
the dry season and early wet season. Unprocessed milk sold by private vendors
in Rangoon, and containing variable quantities of water, sells at K 3.0 to
K 6.0/1. depending upon quality and season. The current daily supply of
fresh milk in Rangoon is about 50,000 1.
1.50      Milk produced in smaller villages and the Mandalay region is usually
sold by the farmer at about K 1.6/viss. It is used principally for making
a sweetened milk concentrate wihich contains dbout 30% solids (cf 10-12%
in fresh milk) and which sells at about K 4.0 per viss. Milk used by the
Maymyo condensary (2,000 litres/day) is purchased at K 1.9/viss (US$0.19/1)
at the plant. Imported milk prouucts, principally sweetened condensed milk
and infant-milk powder, are limited in quantity by Government foreign exchange
allocations and are 1highly price(.. Whert available a 14 oz tin of sweetened'
condensed milk normaily seils aL K 2.25 in the Government Cooperative Stores
and at two to three times Lnis price i  the free market.
F.  Coi&csions
1.51      It is clear tnat the two immediate problems facing the livestock
industry of Burma are to increase the quantity and quality of draft cattle
available for crop cultivation and to substitute the large imports of
processed milk by domestic production. It is equally clear that the inpl:ts
required to bring about these production increases are in very limited lcal
supply, e.g. there are few dairy animals with the genetic potential for nigh
milk production, feed supplies are critically short, trained and experiencedi
personnel are below requirements, research information is lacking, and the
extension, Al vaccine production and market and processing services are
insufficient.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
1.52      Dairy cattle improvement is largely dependent on an expansion in
Al services for AI provides the only practical means of producing reason-
able numbers of specialized dairy animals in a short period of time. To be
of use, breed improvement must be accompanied by improved feeding, husbandry
and marketing services. At present the village farmer has little incentive
to produce milk for the market because milk collection at the village level
is poorly organized. The establishment of producer milk cooperatives to
collect and sell village milk could provide a promising approach to the
marketing problem.
1.53      Improvement of the fodder base involves mainly an improvement in
the quantity and quality of the grazing on which local cattle subsist.
Sufficient trials have now been carried out in Burma to show that low cost
pasture improvement is practical and financially attractive.
1.54      An increase in the number and quality of draft animals on
smallholdings is mainly dependent on increasing fodder supplies, associated
with incentives to increase the breeding productivity of the existing cattle
and buffalo population. The higher relative prices now prevailing for paddy
will encourage higher cattle and buffalo prices, while an improved market
outlet for slaughter stock would encourage farmers to retain more productive
breeding females than they do at present. Slaughter restrictions on cattle
and buffalo do little to encourage productivity improvements in the national
cattle and buffalo herds.
1.55      The potential benefits inherent in increased fodder supplies,
in breeding better stock and in improving market outlets will only be
realized as Government services to the industry are equally improved. Better
disease control facilities, and expanded extension, research and training
services are required. The rehabilitation of the Government farm network
would facilitate the basic rural infrastructure needed to supply these
inputs to the smallholder.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Veterinary, Al And Extension Services
I. Background
1.01      The Director of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (DAHVS), stationed
in Rangoon, is responsible for supervising all livestock activities in
Burma. The Department has 23 field offices, each staffed by a graduate
veterinarian and supported by one or more animal health assistants. This
field service is directed primarily at preventive vaccination of livestock
against the more prevalent and important bacterial diseases. Additionally
the service provides the elements of livestock extension and AI. Supporting
the field service are the vaccine production facilities at Insein, the
Government livestock farms, the central AI unit in Rangoon and a limited
number of subject matter specialists such as diagnostic officers, dairy
production specialists and pasture agronomists.
1.02      The field veterinarians of the Department are mainly graduates of
the relatively new Faculty of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science in
Rangoon. Being new graduates, most lack practical agricultural and
extension experience. The majority of the 730 animal health assistants
employed by the Department have an animal health diploma obtained from the
Veterinary Training Institute after two years study following high school.
This course emphasizes theoretical aspects of animal health, rather than
practical animal husbandry and preventive medicine, and young assistants
require careful guidance if they are to develop useful practical experience
and capability. Numerically the output of the faculty of animal husbandry
and veterinary science and of the Veterinary Training Institute is mDre
than sufficient to provide the staff required. The task of the field
personnel is complicated by a lack of transport, inadequate vaccines, and
a lack of objectives and methodology in raising livestock production. Not
surprisingly, the extension and technical assistance provided to farmers in
the livestock sector has not been very effective.
1.03      To achieve increases in livestock production in the project area
a considerable strengthening of veterinary and livestock extension field
services is needed, and the existing field service of the DAHVS is the logical
nucleus for this expansion. Under the project, DAHVS would provide increased
veterinary inputs, field staff and administrative support, and the newly



ANNEX 2
Page 2
formed Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC) would be
responsible for staff training and support in animal and pasture production.
1.04      In addition to the basic physical and financial requirements, the
success of an intensified field service in preventive medicine and livestock
extension depends upon the careful selection, training, supervision and
motivation of the field staff, together with a sufficient intensity of the
extension effort in any one area. These inputs the project would provide
in selected areas.
II. Organization
2.01      The Project Field Service, intended as a model for subsequent
national use, would be headed by a Director (DFS) who would be a deputy
to the Director of DAHVS. He would be assisted in the formation of exten-
sion policy by subject matter specialists from the MAF in vaccine use, cli-
nical medicine, AI, livestock husbandry, pasture production and agriculture.
An immediate task of the DFS would be to establish a special training unit
in the DAHVS to be responsible for the in-service training of the selected
field staff, and for formulating, on a seasonal basis, an appropriate
extension and vaccine program.
2.02      In the ten districts in which the Livestock Development Centers
(LDC) would be established (Annex 5). Special intensified veterinary and
animal husbandry extension activities would be organized. In each of these
ten districts a District Livestock Officer (DLO) would be appointed, together
with four Township Livestock Officers (TLO) each guiding eight Village Live-
stock Specialists (VLS). Each VLS would be responsible for 12 villages
comprising a total of about 800 small farm holdings. About 250,000 farm
families would thus be potential beneficiaries of the program.
2.03      Basically the Field Service staff would assure farmers in the
project area of the availability of veterinary and animal husbandry services,
i.e., vaccination, routine clinical work, extension advice, etc. Field
Service staff would, during the cattle mating season, also make regular
every second day visits to key villages, selected on the basis of cattle
density and ease of access, to carry out AI services. Each VLS would also
be engaged in special monthly extension activities formulated and implemented
under the supervision of the local TLO. These activities would include such
action as demonstration on vaccine use, calf drenching, calf rearing,
supplementary feeding, pasture development, improved land cultivation using
oxen, etc. Each TLO would also carry out at least one field experiment
per season.
2.04      The program would aim at developing a new approach to extension
activities and would, inter alia, test farmers' reactions and willingness to
participate. The principal purpose would be to provide a training and testing



ANNEX 2
Page 3
ground for general livestock and agricultural extension efforts. Total
staff requirements under the project would be: 10 DLO, 40 TLO, 320 VLS.
All of the TLO and about 200 of the VLS would be incremental appointments.
Candidates for these new posts of TLO would be graduates from the Faculty of
Animal and Veterinary Science; those for the post of VLS wouild be diplomates
from the Veterinary Training Institute.
III. Transportation and Accommodation
3.01      Vehicles would be allocated to the DFS and his 10 DLO.  TLO and
VLS would receive a loan to buy motorcycles for which a mileage allowance
would be paid. Buying a motorcycle would be a condition of acceptance
into the service. Repair and maintenance for vehicles provided would be
undertaken by already existing private garages or, where available, govern-
ment services.
33.02     A veterinary post would be constructed in each of the ten districts
and provided with the necessary furniture and equipment. Village and township
officers would find and pay for their own accomodation; DAHVS would assist
in locating suitable premises; as far as possible they would be Government
owned. As suitable housing for DLO is difficult to find in district capitals,
these would be constructed under the project. The necessary equipment for
AT services, veterinary assistance and extension - demonstration programs
would also be provided. It would be the responsibility of the DLO office
to assure distribution and proper use and maintenance of this equipment.
IV. In-service Training
4.01      To refresh and update the technical information available to the
field service an intensive in-service training program is required. Sources
of appropriate knowledge of use to the Project Field Service include the
university, research stations, experienced extension personnel and the
various subject matter specialists located in Burma.
4.02      Two short intensive courses for village livestock specialists are
planned; one before the monsoon, the other before the dry season. Training
would be based on a "concentration of effort" approach - it would be
practical not academic, and geared specifically to aid the VLS to fulfill
his task in improving livestock productivity. Lectures would be limited to
one third of the total training time available (approximately two weeks)
the remainder being used for small-group discussions, practical work and
demonstration. Teaching would always be problem oriented, e.g., if the
subject is timely land cultivation, the question would be how to best use
the limited draft power of the village livestock.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
4.03      Short courses of this nature cannot deal with all livestock pro-
blems; thus emphasis would be placed on the main issues that the Project
Field Service intends to concentrate on: preventive vaccination, simplified
cultivation, AI, calf rearing, cow nutrition and pasture development would be
priority problem areas.
4.04      Township and District Livestock Officers would participate in two
week courses for the VLS, as lecturers and discussion group leaders. They
would also attend a special one week course each year covering new
practices and techniques, general livestock subjects, planning of extension
work, administrative techniques, etc. Each month each DLO would organize
a one day meeting of his TLO and VLS to discuss the specific livestock
program for the forthcoming month and to review the experience, problems
and success of the past month's efforts.
4.05      The lecturers at the various courses and meetings would include
people from the vaccine production unit, the research centers, university
facilities and from the MAF. Responsibility for organizing these two week
courses would be that of the Director of the Field Service, responsibility
for the monthly meetings would be that of the DLO. Twice yearly all DLO
would meet with the DFS, the Director of the DAHVS and the Project Policy
Committee to review overall progress of this component of the project and
to provide a forum for evaluation and modification of field service operations.
V. Budget Proposals
5.01      The cost estimates of the proposal are detailed in Table 1.  Each
VLS, covering about 12 villages, would provide an animal health and production
service to a potential 1,600 head of cattle and buffalo plus larger numbers
of pigs, poultry, sheep and goats. Assuming the service concentrates initially
on cattle and buffalo and reaches 50% of these animals in the villages covered
by this project component, approximately 800 cattle and buffalo, and associated
small stock, would be improved by each VLS. Assuming further that a modest
lift in cow fertility of 10% is achieved by Year 3, and that mortality is
reduced from an overall 7% to 4%, the resulting herd projection is depicted
in Table 2.   The financial implications which result from Tables 1 and 2
are summarized in Table 3 and illustrate that quite small improvements in
productivity are sufficient to show a very handsome return on this type of
investment.
VI. Vaccine Production
6.01      Present vaccine production in Burma is estimated to be sufficient
to cover only 10% of the livestock population, and existing vaccine production



ANNEX 2
Page 5
conditions are quite inadequate. Production processes in use are laborious,
crowded and insufficiently controlled. Tissue culture techniques for vaccines
against rinderpest, swine fever, rabies and dog distemper have been introduced
recently and, as with the simpler procedures for bacterial vaccines, are
capable of rapid expansion given increased laboratory space, better equip-
ment and adequate testing and control facilities. Foot and mouth disease
(FMD) is endemic in Burma and completely uncontrolled. It incapacitates many
draft-animals during the ploughing season. A variety of FMD subtypes is
known to be present but FMD typing facilities are lacking. The early provi-
sion of these typing facilities is regarded as an essential first step in
expanding control of this disease. Adequate diagnostic facilities for
general disease identification have not been established to date in
Burma and the incidence, pattern and locality of major disease outbreaks are
imprecisely known. In consequence, quantification of the livestock production
losses resulting from animal disease is not possible. The incidence of
reproductive diseases, particularly Brucellosis and Vibriosis, is completely
unexplored, and the losses caused by external and internal parasites are
unknown.
6.02      To achieve an output target of vaccines sufficient to cover 50%
of the livestock population and to establish satisfactory diagnostic facilities,
additional investment is required in buildings, equipment and staff training.
A new vaccine building program, sufficient for immediate needs, is currently
being undertaken by Government. The equipment required is an extensive
mix of laboratory balances, incubators, culture tanks, microscopes,
refrigerators, deep freezers, autoclaves, glassware etc, whose overall cost
has been estimated at K 3.25 M.
6.03      Immediate staff training requirements are estimated at seven man-
years of fellowships and 24 man-months of consultant services. The breakdown is
as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Fellowships - Vaccine Production, Virus typing and Diagnostic Services
Years     Cost K ('000)
Quality control                             1             52
FMD typing                                  2            104
Production of biologicals                   1             52
Bacteriology                                1             52
Virology                                    1             52
Pathology                                   1             52
7           364
Consultants
Years     Cost K ('000)
Production of Biologicals-           1.0              260
Reproductive Disease                 0.5              162.5
Diagnostic Procedures                0.5              162.5
2.0             585
1/   A specialist in deep culture methods of Bacterial Vaccines
and in Tissue culture.
6.04      Vaccine production, FMD typing and the establishment of diagnostic
facilities under the project would be the overall responsibility of the
Director of the DAHVS. The Director, his deputies directly responsible for
vaccine production, FMD typing and diagnostic facilities, and the Consultant
on the production of biologicals would, in the months immediately following
project approval, prepare a detailed work plan, timetable and purchase list,
and submit this to IDA for comment. Tentative phasing of the cost estimates
for vaccine production is shown in Table 4.



BURMA,
LIVESO0CK PFOJECT
Veterinary, Al and Extension Services
Cost 5stimates
(February 1975 prices)
Year 4             Percent
Unit             Year             Year                              Year                 and               Foreign
Un ts           Cost                1                2            ToLal                3                Followi             Excchange
A. Incremental Capital Cost                         (Kyats)- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -(thousand Kyats) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1. Civil Works
Veterinary posts      l/   1/                116,000             580              5d0          1,16o                                                       30
Cattle handling pens 2        400               2,490            498              490             996               _0
-Senior staff           10             68,000           4o                340             680                                                      20
Housing-sno   taf___                                                                                                                                       20
Subtotal                                                l,tiui-7,
2. Transportation Sluipment
4-wheel drive automobiles      12              52,000            312              312             624
Motorcycles (lightweight)    3b0                3,900            702               02           1.404               -                  _                   95
Subtotal                                                                    14                                                   -                    5
3. Other Ebaipment
Veterinary field kits         3c0                 780            140              140             280               -                  -                   95
AI - kits                     360                 390            70               70             140                -                  -                   95
Office equipment               10               7,020             35               35              70               -                  -                   95
Miscellaneous                    -               -                33               33              66                                                      80
-~~~~        _272            --                                                         914
Subto tal                                                  2d7                              556--9
Total                                                         2,710            2,710           5,420                                                      56
ImDort Duties and Taxes                                          902              902           1,80 oO
Total Capital Cost                                       3,6312                          7.224               0- 40
B. Incremental Recurrent _penditur e
1. Building Maintenance            -                -                25               40              65                 51                 51                12
2. Vehicles Operatirw and
Replacement                  -                 -               130              378             508               402                 758                50
3. Small Eouipment Replacement   -                 -                 -                28              28                 52                 94                75
4. Current Innuts and  Materials
Medicines  nd  3a1nej           -               -              2,358            14,718          7,076             6,289               6,318                75
Senen 4/                       -                -                445              890           1.335             1.112              1 112                 10
Subtotal                                                 2,95o           6054             9,012             7,906                3                   63
5. Staff ano Training
Wages and Salaries 5/          -                -                 10            1,296           2,106             1,620               1,620
In-service training
(subsistence) o/             -                -                216               32          64                     2                 4
Subtotal                                                 1 ()26           1,726           2                 2,052              2
T~otal                                                          S7,782                        19,95                                 10,385                45
Import duties and Taxes 7/                                       104              245              49                302                402Z 
Total Recurrent Expenditure                                                         7                            10,2     9     2     043
1/  District units, each compromising 1 DLO, 4 TLOs and 32 VLSs.
2/ One to each 5 villages.
M/ Nedicines and vaccines at K14 per animal
Semen cost K14 per dose; maximum 50,000 cows per year with 1 doses each.
/ Incremental per Veterinary Post to present staff: 4 TLOs and 20 VLSs at
an dnnLual cost of K162,000.
6/ 10,000 man-days per year at full development.
7/ Construction materials 30X; automobiles 125%; motorcycles 50%; off'ice and
small equipment 30%; and 4% custcom handling on all imported goods.
February 21,197;,



BURMA
,LVESTOCK PROJECT
Vaterinarlj', AI and Extension Services
A. Hard Projection for 200 Cow Village Tract
Before
Herd Composition                  Project          Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 14          Year              Year 6 -15
Bulls                            10               10               10               10               10               10                  10
Breeding Cows                  200              200               200              200              200              200                 200
Calves weared                    90               90              100              110              110             U10                  110
Heif era 1-2 years              42                42               42               48               53               53                  53
Heifers 2-3 years                39               39               39               40               40               40                  40
Steers 1-2 years                142               42               142              41               53               53                  53
Steers 2-3 years                39                39               39               30               30               30                  30
Steers 3-4 years                 36               36               36               27               27               27                  27
Steers 4-5 years                 33               33               33               30               26               26                  26
Steers 5-6 years                 31               31               31               32               32               25                  25
Total Ardnals                  562              562               572              568              581              574                574
Purchases
Bulls                             I                1                1                1                1                1                   1
Sales
cul Cows                        16               16                17               26               26               26                  26
Surplus Heif ers                  6                6                6                7               14               17                  17
Surplus Steers                  29               29               30               40                50               50                 50
Technical Coefficients
Calves weaned %                 45               45                50               55               55               55                 55
Orerall 1ortality %             7                6                 5                4                4                4                   14
Cows culle%d                    10               10                10               15               15               15                 15
Blle culed %                    15               15                15               15               15               15                 15
B. Project Coverage
No. vlilages covered                -             1,450            2,900            3,d50            3,850            3,850               3,350
No. 200 cow urd.ts @
50% accetance                    -                250              500              650              650              650                 650
Approximate No. of
cattle oovered.                   -           140,000          285,000          370,000          375,000          375,000             375,000
January 10, 1975
rl   h



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Veterinary, Al and Extension Services
Financial Implications
Year 1   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8-15    Total
Number of Animals
Incremental Cattle Sales Number
Cull Cows ' K500                       -         250     2,750     5,150      6,500     6,500      6,500        6,500      79.650
Heifers   @ K00                       -         -         250     2,250      4,900     6,700      7,150        7,150      78,450
Steers    4 K850                       -         250     3,000     8,150    12,150    13,650    13,650         13,650     160,050
-__________________________(Thousand Kyats)---------------------------------------------
Total  Value                           -         337     4,125    11,303    17,498    20,212    20,572         20,572     238,623
Incremental Operating Costs               3,984    7,782      9,958    10,385    10,792    10,792    10,792         10,792     150,821
Investment                                2,710    2,710        -          -         -          -         -            -         5,h20
Surplus (Deficit)
Annual                              (6,694) (10,155)   (5,833)        918     6,706      9,420     9,780        9,780      82,382
Cumulative                          (6,694) (16,849)  (22,682)  (21,764)  (15,058)   (5,638)    4,142             -        82,382
February 21, 1975
IF- .



BHJRMA&
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Veterinary, AI and Extension Services
(DAHVS)
Vaccine Production
Thousand Kyats - February '75 Prices
Percentage
Year                                              Foreign
1                2                3              Total            Exchanre
Equipment A!                       1,300            1,300              650            3,250               90
Technical Assistance
Fellowships                       104              130              130              364              100
Consultants                       195              32                6               585              100
Subtotal                       299                                                                10>90 i55
Total                    2'91,75    9                                               199                92
Import Duties and Taxes _/        232              264              108              604                -
GRAND TOTAL                    I 331-      m       0__9_                                               83
1/ Includes:  Vortex aeration tanks, freeze driers, sterilizers, air conditioning units, cold storage units,
incubators, microscopes, histological equipment, workshop equipment, instruments, glassware, etc.
2/ Equipment 15% (rate for processing equipment); consultants services 25%; and 4% customs handling on all
imported goods.
February2l, 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Pasture Development
1.01      The pasture species occurring naturally throughout Burma comprise
a wide range of tropical genera that provide reasonable grazing throughout
the wet season. The length of the growing season of most species varies
from about four months in the dry zone to six months in the lower delta.
Following seed-set towards the end of the rains the grazing available
declines in palatability and nutritive value, but the area available for
grazing is increased by access to harvest stubbles, particularly so in the
delta area where most cultivable land is planted to rice each year. Changes
in pasture quality and quantity associated with a seasonal rainfall pattern
lead to marked fluctuations in the body weight and condition of cattle and
buffalo. Cows come into estrus following the onset of the rainy season, and
calve about the end of the dry season. Most villages have access to some
communal grazing land, the extent of which varies greatly between lower and
central Burma. In lower Burma communal grazing is limited by widespread
cropping, whereas in Central Burma, potential grazing areas are extensive.
The total potential pasture land in the project area is about 5 M ac.
1.02      The tropical pasture legume Stylosanthes humilis, commonly known
as Townsville stylo or annual stylo, was introduced to Burma in 1962 and has
proved to be well adapted to use in increasing the production and quality of
local pastures, particularly in acidic latosols and in the delta region.
Townsville stylo is a self-pollinating annual species which establishes
easily by surface seeding on lightly cultivated land. Under heavy,.grazing
it forms a dense prostrate growth, is resistant to overgrazing and is highly
palatable at maturity when large quantities of seed are shed. This seed
provides an excellent dry season feed supplement to grazing animals. Protein
and mineral levels of the plant are higher than in grasses and it makes
excellent standing or cut hay.
1.03      Quantitative investigations on annual stylo yields in Burma are
lacking but in adjoining countries dry matter DM yields of 16,000 lb of DM
per ac have been recorded in good seasons and about 5,000 lb in poorer
seasons. The plant grows well in association with native grasses and can
be combined with Bermuda or Buffel grass in sown pastures. Seed production
of stylo has been initiated in Burma and 1,000 lb of stylo seed were harvested
in 1973. The seed rate required for adequate pasture establishment of stylo
is 4 lb/ac. Seed harvesting is relatively simple. Seed can be collected



ANNEX 3
Page 2
by labor-intensive methods involving simply plucking, or better, hand-cutting,
threshing and winnowing. Seed yields vary with the harvest method. With
vacuum harvesting, yields of 500 to 700 lb/ac are attainable, but with
hand plucking 200 lb would be reasonable. Hard seed production is usual,
thus confering a useful measure of drought and fire resistance on the
species.
1.04      The alluvial soils of central and upper Burma have a pH approach-
ing neutrality and appear well suited to lucerne, particularly where some
irrigation can be provided. Leucaena species are well adapted to the neutral
soils on non-irrigable higher land. The grasses of several species of
Brachiaria, and Cenchrus are also well suited to the project area and are
now established in promising trial pastures in Burma.
1.05      Under the project about 20,000 ac of village pasture land would
be improved, mainly by introducing annual stylo, para-grass (B. mutica) and
Cenchrus ciliaris. To facilitate supervision of pasture establishment and
maintenance pasture would be improved in each of about 300 villages in areas
adjacent to the Livestock Development Centers to be established under the
project (see Annex 5). In the first instance these villages would be selected
by Village Livestock Specialists (Annex 2 para 2.02) on the basis of:
(a) the availability of a suitable land area for pasture
improvement in the village;
(b) the interest of the village council to undertake communal
pasture development;
(c) agreement of the village council to a program of pasture
development and grazing control, in accordance with LDMC
recommendations;
(d) the willingness of the village to provide the labor
required for establishing the pasture.
1.06      Selected villages would be referred to the Livestock Development
and Marketing Corporation (LDMC) for final approval and financing. The
pasture specialist of LDMC would assist the VLS to prepare a specific
pasture development plan for each approved village, arrange its financing
by LDMC and supervise pasture establishment and management. In most cases
seed would be planted by broadcasting on a burnt and/or lightly cultivated
seedbed on brush cleared land; para-grass would be planted vegetatively.
For experimental purposes limited areas would be fertilized with sulphur
and phosphorus, and fenced.
1.07      Development cost estimates are summarized in Table 1.  These are
estimated to average about K 135/ac, and involve land clearing, seeding,
and weeding, and fertilizer and fencing for trial areas only.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
1.08      Grazing management arrangements would be the responsibility of
the village council which would be encouraged to charge a grazing fee for
the right to use the improved land and to limit grazing to the level the
improved pasture can reasonably be expected to withstand. The VLS and the
pasture specialist would monitor both pasture and livestock performance on
the improved areas and provide guidance to the village council on optimal
management and pricing practices.  Recovery of the investment cost of
LDIIC in pasture development would not be sought in this first project as
the program is a pioneer activity involving a small total sum (US$200,000)
and the cost of collecting numerous small sums would be high.
1.09      Incremental benefits are assessed on the assumption that one
acre of improved pasture is capable of increasing live weight gain by 35 lb
in Year 2, increasing to 70 lb in Year 3 and remaining constant thereafter,
and that the pasture will have a life of ten years. The financial rate of
return resulting from pasture improvement, based on these benefits and
investment costs, together with a current cattle price of K 1.5/lb live-
weight, is in excess of 50%. (Table 2)
February 3, 1975



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Pasture Levelopment
Jevelopment Phasing and Cost Sstimates
(February 1975 prices)
Percent
Total            Unit                                                                                      Foreign
Unit s           Cost             Year 1            Year 2           Year 3            Total               E:cchange
(Xyats)
A. Phasing of Pasture                                                                          s)------------------
Pqvelopment                                                      4,000            6,ooo            10,000            20,000
B. Cost EEtinates
1. Farm Improvement                                                -------------(thousand Kyats)-
Clearing, Cultivation 1/  20,000ac              65                260              390               650             1,300
Fencing 2/                     200km         3,000                120              180                300              600                46
rubtotal                              3dO 910 
2. Current Inputs
Forage Seeds 3/             do,ooolb             S                 96              144               240               480                35
Fertilizers 47                 250rcons      1,400                                 105                                 350                >0
Subtotal                                                 166              249                415               830                7
Total                                                         54               819              1,365             2,730               23
Imuort Juties and
Taxes 5/                                                       51               74                125               250
GRAND TOTAL                                                       597             d93              1,490             2,980                22
1/  Including sowing; d man-days labor per ac (at current rate of K6 per dhr man-day)
plus one oxen work-day of 4 hr (at current rate of K17 per pair including driver)
2/  Limited bounder, fer.cing about Ikim per 100 ac.
3/  Seed rate at 41b ner ac.
l/  Experimental only; 500 ac at lOOlb per ac.
3/  Barbed wire (for fencing) 75%; ani 4% customs handling for all imported goods.
rebruary 21, 1975



LIVESDCK PROJECT
Pasture Develoyient
Assumed Incremental Production and Financial Implicatiorn
(Febriary 1975 prices)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           Year 4            ear 5           Year 6-15          Total
-________ _______________ _ -thousand pounds livew     t
Incremental Production               -               140             490            1,050            1,400              1,400            17,00
~ --------------------(thousan1 Kyats)-------------------------
Cash Value                           -               210             735            1,575            2,100              2,100            25,o20
Pasture Improvement Cost            547             d19            1,367              229              229                229             5,481
surplus (Deficit):
Annual                          (547)            (609)           (632)           1,346            1,d71              1,d71               -
Cumulative                        -           (1,156)          (1,788)            (442)           1,429                 -             20,139
1/ Incremental production of liveweight assumed at 351b
per ac in year 2, increasing to 701b per ac in year
3 and remaining constant thereafter.
2/ At K1.5 per lb liveweight.
February 21,1975
1>I



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Water Development
1.01      During the dry season many villages in upper Burma experience a
severe shortage of water for domestic and stock use. Such water as is
available, often miles from a village, is transported by bullock cart from
shallow wells and stream beds which are not always reliable during a prolonged
dry season. This water shortage imposes a constraint on social and economic
development, in spite of an otherwise adequate agricultural and livestock
potential. The project would include a small component (K 850,000 or
US$136,000) to stimulate further water point construction (Table 1).
1.02      In some areas, where underground water is at a shallow depth, the
construction of more (and deeper) wells would be practical.  In many cases,
hand operated 3-4 in augers could be used to drill exploratory holes and,
larger ones of 12-15 in could drill operational bores. In many areas, how-
ever, underground water is absent and the only feasible approach is to store
surface runoff from the wet season in small reservoirs.
1.03      A village community typically consists of about 65 households,
350 people and 150 head of cattle and buffalo. The water requirement per
villager is about 6 gallons per day (gpd) and that of cattle and buffalo
about 10 gpd - a total requirement of about 3,600 gpd. The dry season
extends for about eight months; thus where shallow wells are not practical,
the usalle water storage per village needs to be at least 1,000,000 gal or
5,000 m . Where a groundwater acquifer is present, the yield of a hand-
dug well, preferably not more than 4 ft in diameter, is of the order of
500 /hour, and one good well fitted with two hand pumps per village would
suffice for both human and livestock needs.
1.04      The annual rainfall in the dry zone of upper Burma is approximately
600 mm. Surface run-off is relatively high (about 250 mm) because the
rains are monsoonal and fall in heavy showers. A catchient area of 10 ac
(about 40,000 sq m) would yield therefore some 10,000 m , which if stored
in a reservoir of 5 m usable depth, would be sufficient to provide the water
requirements of a village. The estimate of construction cost! of such a
reservoir is based on the assumptioe that, on average, each m  of
embankment would serve to store 6 m of water.
1.05      Reservoir design in selected villages would be undertaken at the
request of LDMC by experienced engineers from the Irrigation Department of
the Ministry of Agriculture & Forests.  Construction would be by labor -



ANNEX 4
Page 2
intensive techniques, supplemented where necessary by contract services
provided by the machinery service of the Irrigation Department. Financing
would be required for:
(a) engineering design and supervision during
construction;
(b)  earth moving;
(c)  reinforced concrete work spillway;
(d)  pipes, hand pumps and water trough; and
(e)  fencing of reservoir and catchment areas.
1.06      The construction of about 25 reservoirs is proposed under the
proje5t.  Construction costs of earthen embankments are estimated at K 5
per m  and the overall cost of the design and supervision, spillay, fence
and distribution system for a reservoir containing about 6,000 m of
potential storage would be about K 15,800 (February 1975 prices):
Units
per                                    % Foreign
Unit    Reservoir      Unit Cost    Total Cost   Exchange
(K)           (K)
1. Civil Works
Land Clearing           ac          2              250            500           10
Foundation
treatment               -          1           1,500           1,500           10
Earthwork               m3     1,000               35           5,000           10
Spillway                 -          1           2,200           2,200           45
Fence                   km         1/2          4,400           2,200           45
Distribution
system                  -          1           1,750           1,750           65
Miscellaneous                       -             -             1,150           55
Subtotal               -         -                           14,300           31
2. Engineering                                                     1,500           -
Total                                                        15,800          ,29



ANNEX 4
Page 3
1.07      In addition to the reservoirs, shallow wells or, where practical,
tubewells and about 20 bamboo wells, would be constructed. The cost of 25
shallow wells has been provided, which would include the cost of the
alternative bamboo wells. These are simple, inexpensive experimental
tubewells lined with bamboo strips bound with fiber cord to form a simple
tubular lining to the borehole. The cost varies with location but, if
successful, the experiment would cost about the same as three or four
conventional dug wells. The construction costs of wells, lined with local
brick, provided with a filter ring and finished with a concrete base plate,
hand pump, water trough1/ and piping are estimated at (February 1975 prices):
Unit          % Foreign
Cost          Exchange
(K)
1.   Civil Works
Well digging                   1,000              -
Brick lining, filter
and base plate               5,600              40
Reinforcement                  1,200              60
Subtotal                  7,800              38
2.   Equipment
Trough, piping & handpump      6,200              80
Total                    14.000              57
1.08      Criteria of village selection for water point construction, either
reservoir or well, would include:
(a)  an unrealized agricultural and livestock potential due to
lack of dry season domestic and stock water;
(b)  suitable topography, soil type and water catchment area
for reservoir construction or an adequate ground water
acquifer for shallow well or tubewell construction
(normally alluvial soil areas near permanent streams);
(c)  a request by the village council to LDMC to assist in
water point construction and an assurance by the council
that the village would supply labor construction work and
be able and willing to accept responsibility for maintenance
of the facility.
(d)  evidence, satisfactory to LDMC, of financial means to
pay for the water points and the technical ability of the
village to maintain them.
1/   15 feet for 150 head, minimum water inflow required 7.5 gpm.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
1.09      Financing the construction of each water point would be the
responsibility of LDMC which, after approving an application for a parti-
cular village, would arrange for a design study and construction super-
vision by the Irrigation Department of MAF which has the expertise and capacity
to undertake this work. The water point would be the property of the village
council. Construction costs of dams and well could be recovered by GOB
through the consolidated Land Revenue, either through reclassification of
village land to reflect the increased productivity of land serviced by a GOB
constructed water point, or by revising existing rates. Approximately K 5/ac
tax on cultivated land in the village would provide sufficient funds to
amortize reservoir construction costs over ten years.
1.10      The benefits of waterpoint construction for domestic use are
difficult to quantify. At the extreme, waterpoint construction allows
settlement of good land that would otherwise be neglected. Villages lacking
permanent water in Upper Burma are presently supplied from water carts and
the cash price of water during the dry season approximates3K 1 per four
gallons. On this valuation a reservoir containing 6,000 m of usable water
is worth K 1.4 M to the village, whereas its cost is about K 15,000. Water
point construction, in excess of immediate human and livestock needs is
rarely wasted, surplus water being invariably used for limited irrigation
of dry season crops, or for extending the growing period of wet season crops.
The economic rate of return of irrigation development in Upper Burma, Ising
small pumps in permanent streams and costing about K 70 ac ft (1,250 m ) per
annum in capital and operating costs, is about 35% 1/. The water stored in
village reservoirs has a similar3cost (assuming construction amortized over
20 years at K 15,800 for 6,000 m ).
1.11      Under the project 50 water points - about 25 shallow yells of
500 gal/hr capacity, and 25 surface reservoirs of about 6,500 m capacity would
be financed in selected villages. Investment costs are summarized in Table 1.
1/   IBRD Report No. 395-BA.



BURIA                                                                saDlx 4
LIVES2CK PFOJECT
Watwr Deve1lqent
Phasing of Construction and Cost Estimtes
(February 1975 prices)
Pwcent
Year             Year             Year                               Foreign
1                2                3              Total             Exchange
A. Village Reservoirs              --------------------- (Units)-------------------------
1. Construction Phasing            3                10               12               25
2. Cost Estimates         ---------            -thlsand  yats)--
Civil Works
Land Clearing                   1.5              5.0               6.0             12.5              10
Foundation Treatment            4.5             15.0              16.0             37.5              10
Earthworks         ig 0             5~~~~0.0         601
Spillway                       105              Z?.U             LN70:                5t
Ferce                           6.5             22.0              27.0             55.5
Distribution Systen             5.0             18.0              21.0             44-.              65
Miscellaneous                    3                1.5             13.5             28.5              55
Subtotal                42-5143.                    5      1_7 2_            35  5              31
Sngineering                    44.5             15.0             18.0              37.5
Total                       47        -       8              190.5             396.               29
B. Shallow Wells                          ______- _______ (units).-----------------------
1. Construction Phasing            3                10               12               25
2. Cost Estimates                 --------------(thousand Kyats)---------------------
Civil Works
Well digging                    3.0             10.0              12.0             25.o
Brick lining, filter,
bae plate                     17.0              56.o             67.0            140.0               40.0
Reinforcement                   1 0             12.0              14.0              o.0               60.0
Subtotal              241.0            -7.0              93.0            195.0               38.o
Equipment
Trough, Piping,                19.0             62.0              74.0            l55.0               6o.o
Handpump
Total                        Z.0             ___               1.0o              5.07
Total A anc B                  90.0             298.5            357.5            746.0               42.0
Import Duties and Taxes I                       41-5             50.5            105.0
GRAND MTAL                 103 .0           314 ;.408.0                       851.0              37 .0
1/ Construction materials 30%; equipment 30%; and 4%
customs handling on all imported goods.
February 21, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development
Animal Research & the Livestock Development Centers
Background
1.01      Recent research work on pasture and livestock production in Burma
has been extremely limited. Over the last decade FAO technical assistance
has introduced various tropical pasture legumes, of which Stylosanthes
humilis is the most successful but organized extension efforts, seed pro-
duction and distribution and regional field trials extending the use of this
plant have been lacking. Even so, the early introduction of stylo has become
quite widespread and seed of this species is in very strong and unsatisfied
demand. Cenchrus ciliaris has proved well adapted to the Dry Zone and earlier
introductions of Brachiaria mutica and Cynadon dactylon as well as the indig-
enous species of Andropogons, Eragrostis and bamboo grass (Arundinella) pro-
vide a basis for pasture development programs.
1.02      Systems of pasture, livestock and crop management that could inter-
act to the benefit of both crop and livestock productivity are untried and an
integration of livestock and agricultural practices into a coordinated farm
management system remains to be achieved. This problem is of particular
importance in upper Burma where extensive areas of old crop land are being
increasingly eroded and largely abandoned to spasmodic goat grazing; the
reclamation of these lands by oversowing with annual stylo or other pasture
legumes remains untried. On arable land, rice and other crop yields are low
by world standards, in part due to continuous cropping schedules. The use of
a legume pasture phase in dryland crop rotations is known to raise yields
substantially, as legume based pastures regularly fix 90 kg/ha or more of
atmospheric nitrogen each year and increase soil organic matter and water
retention. Local trials on the role of crop-pasture rotations in Burma's
agriculture remain to be carried out.
1.03      The dry season feed resource of cattle and buffalo is largely
paddy straw, rice bran and chopped sorghum stalks, all of which are low in
protein and of limited feed value. The widespread use of annual stylo pas-
tures, which are relatively high in protein, could improve the feed value of
these dry season feeds, while the addition of small quantities of urea
and molasses could have a similar complementary effect. The phosphorus sta-
tus of breeding cattle in Burma is also critically low. Given the vital role
blood phosphorus levels have on feed intake and reproductive performance,



ANNEX 5
Page 2
and the low level of fertility exhibited by Burmese cattle, simple trials on
phosphorous supplementation are also urgently required.
1.04      Pig and poultry development has been largely directed to the
introduction of European breeds whose performance under improved management
conditions has ensured them a permanent and increasing place in Burmese
agriculture. The bulk of pig and poultry production, however, remains at
the village level and is based on indigenous stock who rely on scavenging
and/or brokent rice and rice bran for their food supplies. Virtually
nothing is known of the seasonal variations on the quantity and quality
of natural feed available to these animals. It is probable that an
understanding of variations in feed availability, accompanied by strategic
supplementation of natural feed supplies in times of seasonal shortage,
could raise productivity quite dramatically. Equally, the role of protein
and mineral supplements in improving the ubiquitous diet of rice bran for
fattening pigs remains unknown.
1.05      The key areas which require investigation by a strengthened
research service include:
(a)  the establishment and management of improved grasses and
legumes;
(b)  the integration of cattle and pasture production into
smallholder cropping systems;
(c)  stocking rate and grazing management trials on natural
and improved pastures for both beef and dairy cattle;
(d)  supplementary feeding trials, particularly with urea
and protein, for all classes of stock;
(e)  breed and crossbreeding performance comparisons -
particularly with cattle and buffalo breeds;
(f)  the role of phosphorus supplements in increasing the
fertility and growth rates of cattle and buffalo.
1.06      The Directorate of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry of the Ministry
of Agriculture & Forests has responsibility for operating 24 livestock
farms scattered throughout Burma. These properties are used principally
for multiplying improved livestock breeds to provide surplus stock for sale
to local farming communities. They also exist to provide local demonstration
and research facilities in animal production. Current output of breeding
stock from these farms is well below both capacity and farmer demand, while
their present contribution,to breed improvement, to demonstration work and
to research is much less than might reasonably be expected. Each property



ANNEX 5
Page 3
operates with a substantial budget deficit. Many have a very large develop-
ment potential, the achievement of which requires a substantial capital
input in the form of pasture development, fencing and water points, stock
handling facilities and increased numbers of basic breeding stock.
The Livestock Development Centers
1.07      Under the project, the 24 livestock farms of the Directorate would
be taken over by LDMC and 10 of the most important would be selected for
improvement. These would take the new name of Livestock Development Center
(LDC). Their functions would be expanded to include a greatly increased and
centrally directed research program which would be focussed on the problems
outlined in paras 1.02 to 1.05. They would also provide zonal centers for
enlarged stock breeding, pasture seed production and livestock demonstration
activities. The specific farms and land areas to be included in the project's
LDC would be as follows:
Farm                                      Livestock
Location       Acres      Cattle   Pigs   Chickens   Ducks
1.   Hlawga (near
Rangoon)         600        539      330      -          -
2.   Mandalay              250         101     118      5,413       -
1/
3.   Pyawbwe  (near
Meiktila)        620          28      48        322      -
4.   Mudon-/               250          32      151     2,436        190
5.   Prome                 400           61      86     1,498       -
6.   NaunRcho -/ (near
Maymyo)          397          173     13      1,218      -
7.   Shwebo -              275           39      40        18          6
8.   Taungdwingyi          195          270      74     1,572       -
9.   Pegu                  200          103      89     2,044       -
10.  Bassein               600          (A new farm yet to be stocked)
1/   With dairy herd.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
1.08      The typical LDC livestock farm would consist of about 400 ac on
which a cattle herd, a piggery and poultry production unit would be based.
The cattle herd would have 100 draft type breeding cows and 200 head of
associated stock; Brahman bulls would be introduced to each from abroad.
Each piggery would have an importation of about 18 gilts and 2 boars to
produce good quality breeding stock for village farmers. The poultry unit
would have about 1,000 layers of the white leghorn breed crossed to Australop
males for the production of crossbred day-old weaner pigs, 165,000 hatching
eggs and 36 draft bulls. Additionally each farm would have a central AI
facility, a seed production unit and an animal and pasture production advisory
center. Four farms would also have a 50 cow dairy production unit. Details
of the herd and flock projections, investment costs and cash flow for the
separate production enterprises are shown in Tables 1 to 9.
Livestock and Pasture Research
1.09      The Hlawga center would become the central research unit from which
regional trials would be organized, supervised and collated. The research
component would comprise simple basic livestock research facilities at
Hlwaga costing US$283,000 one expatriate research officer to initiate a
sound research program and fellowships for overseas training local research
personnel (US$100,000) (Table 1). Terms of reference for the expatriate
research officer are attached as Appendix 2 to Annex 13.
Seed Production
1.10      Seed production would be based on the extensive area of improved
pasture to be established on each LDC. Seed from the improved pasture -
mainly Stylosanthes - would be harvested using hand labor and simple
equipment. The harvesting method would consist of:
(a) Mowing in late December before the pasture is dried out;
(b) Threshing 3-4 hours after mowing. This would be done by
hand on large canvas sheets laid on the ground in the
harvest field. After threshing the plant can be sun-dried
further to provide a hay reserve;
(c) .jDrying - the seed, which also contains some leaf and plant
residues at this stage, would be sun-dried on concrete slabs
for 2-3 days;
(d) Seed-cleaning using a simple hand operated winower.
1.11      Yield of seed per acre is expected to be about 200 lb/ac harvested.
Negligible incremental investment over and above those proposed for the
LDC would be required for seed production purposes. Incremental labor costs
in harvesting would be offset by prompt sale of harvested seed and working
capital requirements of about K 10,000 for labor hire in seed harvesting
would be financed by LDC.



BUBM
IaVST0CK PROJECT
Livestock Development
Cost Estimates
(February 1975 prices)
Total
Units -                                Cost Estimate for 10 IX:s                                         Percent
Capaci ti es     Urit             Year             Year             Year                                 Foreign
Item                   per LDC          Coe t               1                2                3              Total               xchawge
1. Cattle BreedinF                                 (Kyata)           -  -    -(thous,and Kyata)---------------------------
lamIrvemeot;
ijokm        2,280 per kim      22                45               22               89                  46
Corral                          1             5,150               -               52                -               52                  13
Water points                    1           11,200              112                -                -              112                  46
dater outlets                 10             2,240              45               112               67              224                  46
Nature establisament         lOOac              106 per ac       53                                 -              106                  24
Subtotal                                                 232               62                                                     39
Cattle:
Healers                        40               800             160              160                                320
Bulls                           4            6,125              122              122                _              2                    80
Subtotal                                                                  2-                                 541*                 34
Tractor and Implements            1           63,500              635                -                -              635                  90
Miscellaneous                                     -             .                                    50              15 .52
Total                                                       11913752
d. PigPoduotion                        2
Animal Pens                     13mn2              70 per m2      128                _                                128                 25
Animals:
COlts                          I               620             112                -                -               112                 84
Boar                             1            1,240              12                -                -                12                 84
Subtotal                                                 127                                                                      d4
Small equipment, tools,
miscellaneous                     -              -                37                _                                 37                 64
Current inputs am materials:
Feed                            )2t.ns          600 per ton    192                 _                                192
Med1oznes, Vaccines             lodoses          6o              10                _                _                10                 75
Subtotal                                                                     -                -              5FM                   4*
T.otal                                                                                                           1i u9I               36
3. ultrr Nouses                am2                52 per m2     125                                  -              125                  35
EquiPment:
Generator                      I            7,10)               31                -                -               31                  84
hefrigeration und t           1             3,100              31                 -                -               31                  84
Sma*ll equipment, tools,
mi scellaneous               -            2,500              25                 -                -               25                  84
Subtotal                                                 77                          -                       77                   84
Chicks ,                     1,3.)0                2.5 per
CurrenL inputs aw                                      chick      10               22                -                32                 84
mrterials:
Chick seed                   121ons           775 per ton       46               47                -                93                 12
Grower feec                    2tons          700 per ton        7                7                _               14
Misce-laneons                  -               -                 2                5                                  7
Subtotal                                                 277                                                                       8 -     B
Total                                                        277              7                                  35b                  43
Total Item  1, 2 a   '.                                             1,967              680              139              2,786
February 26, 197l
Continued on page 2 (Annex 5/Table 1)
0r4



blJhAM
LIY3ST;)CK PROJXCT
Livestock Development
COH t Estimates
(February 1975 prices)
TotalPect
Units -                                                                                                   Percent
Capacities       Unit             Year              Year              Year                                Foreign
Item                  par LDC           Cost                1               2                 3               Total                wase
(I Es)           - ----- (thousalrKyats) --- --------------------
Carried forward fram Page 1             -              -              1,976              680               139             2,786                   -
4. Dairy ilevelopment                            ~~~~~~~Cost Estimates for 4 LDCo
4. Dairr ievelaopmnt
Farc Development:
Fencing                          4o             2,240 per km        9              18                 9                 36                  46
Pasture establishment          l2hac              105 per ac       21               21               10                 52                  24
Water outlets                   10 2            1,120              id               18                9                 4551
Barns and yards                30Qa               100 per N2                                                                                46h 101
Silage pit                   2,000m2                1per m3         8               -                                    8                  2
Subtotal                                                   T                 97                A                7                     24
Eupent:
SilagA  chopper                   1             2,420              10                -                                  10                  75
Milk Cooler                       1            6,200               25                -                                  25                  84
Milk canrs                      20               124                5               S                                   10                  8h
Fas  implements                   -            9,920               ho              18                 9                 b4
Miscellaneous                     -               -                 289                                                                     5
Subtot.al                                                  19-                                 7                a72
Heifers                           50            1,030a                              r0                                  200                  72
To-tai                                      1,000               a200                       0                                            27
5. LDW  Livestock Research Facility  (Hiwaga)
Civil Worka:
Office bulding                102              500 per n2        5                        -                          50                  10
Laboratory building            10O2             750 per e2         -              75                 _                 75                  25
Storage building                SOm2             300 per 2          -              15                 -                 15                  10
Housing; senior staff            6            75,000              225             225                 -                h5o                  20
junLiar staff         10            50,000              250             250                 -500                                  15
other etaff            10           25,000              15                                  _20                                   10
Subtotal                                                   650              690-                              1                      16
Utilitie  (electricity
and "ater supply)              -              53,750              27              27                 -                 54                  30
Tranoortation. fEip4 ent
4iIWheldrivejpic-up              2              52,000             52              52                 -104                                  95
Motorycles                      3              154,300             2                                                    4                   95
Subtotal                                                   51-I?95
Other l}ient:
Uffi-ce                                                                                      5 -13-  880
Laborator-y---
Subtotal                                                    _               8                                                       89
Materials (pasture seeds and                                                                                                                 a
fertilizers)                                                        18             34                33                85                  50
Incoreental Staff:
Chief Reerc   fficer                         260,000 p.a.         130             260              13)                520                 100
Ci research officers                 average t8,000 p.m.           148            120              120                288                 1
Other personnel                                2.000 p.a.          10              20               20
Subtotal                                                  135                                                                       60
Consultants,
6 mn-mnths  (at K38,00O per month)                                  -             114             1114                228                 100
72 man-months  at it 5,500 per month)                                             1 198            198                396                 100
Total                                                           K                                                                       51
Total Item  1 to 5                                                   32             j6                  88846
Import Lbties and Taxes V                                               256            227
GRAND TOTAL                                                          3515           2961                                                       143
I/  Building materials 30%; office and small equipment aver, e 30%;
processing equipment 15%; automobiles 125%; motorcycles OS;
consultants services 25%; and on all impr ted goods 4%
customs handling.
February 26, 1975



LIVES1TOCK PROJECT
Livestock Dovelopment
LDC Cattle Breeding
Hord Ptvjection
(Numbers)
Herd Composition                  Before                                                                  End of Year
Development       1                2               3                4                 5                  6            7 - 15
Breeding Cows and Heifers           40             60               dO             86               66                d7                 93             100
Bulls                                2              2                24             4                14                4                  4               24
Calves Weaned                       20             30               4d4            60               64                64                 70              75
Heifers 1-2                          9              9               14             23               28                30                 32              36
Bulls 1-2                            9              9               14             22               2d                30                 32              36
Sales
Young Bu11s :L/                      9              9                9             13               21                27                 29              35
Heifers 2/                           4              4                4              5                5                 7                  7              18
Cull Cows andl Blls 3/               4              6                8              9               15                15                 15              15
Purchases
Heifers 4                                          20              20
Bulls 5/                                            2               2               -
Technical Coefficients
Calves Weaned                       50             50              60              70               75                75                 75              75
Calf Mortality                       7              6               5               5                5                 5                  5               5
Other Mortality                      4              3               3               3                3                 3                  3               3
Cow Culling Rate                    10             10              10              10               15                15                 15              15
Prices per Head
1/ K 1000.  2/ K 700. 3/ K 500. 4/ K d00. 5/ K 5000.
January 22, 1975



B U R M A
LIVESTOCK_ PWJECT
Livestock Developrnent
IDC Cattle Breeding and Seed Production
Sales and Operating Expenser cion
(per LXi)
Year
Before
Sales                         Development         1        2          3          4         5          6         7-15
Catle--------thousanm Kyats---
Cattle
Young Bulls                      980         9          9         13        21         27         29        35
heifers                          2.8         2.8        2.8        3.5        3.5       4.9        4.9      12.6
Culls                            2.0          3         4          4.5        7.5       7.5        75       75
SeeCi/                             -             -         -         5        10         10         10        10
Total Sales                       13.8        14,8       15.8       26,o      42.o       49.4       51.4      65.1
Operating Expenses
Labor 2/                         2.0         2,0        2.0        2.0       2.0        2.0        2, Q      2.0
Animal Health3/                 o.6          0.7        0.8        1.0       1.2        1.5        l.        1.8
Supplementa,7y FeedW/                        1.3        1.5        1.7       2.1        2.6        3.2       3.2
Feri zer'                         -           -                    2.8       < 7        5.7        5.7       5.7
Fuel6/                                       2.5        222;5                   5       25         2         2.5
fiepair and maintenance7/                    2 .        2.2        25.         55
-     ~~3.2      5.4        5.4                   5154
Miscellaneous 10%                002         oO6        1.0        1.4       1.c        1.8        1.9       1.9
Total Operating Expense            2.8          7.1      11.0       16.Y       20(.7     21.5       22.5      22.5
,'et Operating Income             11.0          7.7       4.8        9.?       21.3      27.9       28.9      42.6
1/ 200 lb /acre @ K 2/lb net of harvest cost.                     5/ Seed production pastures 100 lb/acre Super
2/ One labor unit/100 cows/K 2,000 p.a.                               Phosphate OK 0.6/lb.
3/ K 10/ac/year                                                   6/  Tractor fuel and oil 500 gal p.a. K2,500.
4/ Mineral Supplement K20/ac/year                                 7/ R &. X on tractor and fixed improvements K5,500 poa.
February 26, 1975
'.W   ..-R



ANNEX 5
BURXA                              Table 4
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development
LDC Pig Production
Herd Projection
(Numbers)
Before            --    End of Year--
Developent            1           2           3-15
Herd Composition
Sow and Replacements  .          .12                               30          30           30
Boars ....................................        1                 2           2            2
Pigs - 0-6 weeks .21                                               51    52                 52
Pigs - 6-12 weeks ................,....          lb                44          45           45
Pigs - 12-34 weeks .52                                              6         129          129
Total Pigs                                104                            2           25
TntSl Rirthc                                       200               320         500          03
Purchases
Glts. .-    ld  -  -
Boars.-  1 1 1
Total Purchases                                                                         1
Mortality
Breeding Females .-                                                 1           1            1
Boars         .. ..................-
Pigs - 0-6 weeks .........................   40                    64         100          100
Pigs - 6-12 weeks ........................                         13          20           20
Pigs - 12-34 weeks .5                                               7          11           11
Total Mortality                                                         132          132
Sales
Culled Sows .4                                                      4    10   10
Culled Boars .-                                                     -    1                   1
Finished Pigs .143                                                142    313               35c
Total Sales                              147                 14o         324         309
Technical Coefficients
Conception Rate - (%)         % .                                  do b0                    do
Jumber Born/Farrowing .10                                         10          10           10
Number of Farrowing/Fertile Sow/Year             2                  2           2            2
Average Number of Farrowings/Female in
Breeding Herd .1.67                                               1.67    1.67    1.67
Sow Culling Rate/Year - (..                     40                 40          40           40
Boar Culling Rate/Year - (%)............    40                     40          40           40
Mortality - (%)
Breeding Females. .                            2                  2           2
Boars .1                                                          1  1   1
Pigs - 0-6 weeks .20                                             20          20           20
Pigs - b-12 weeks .....................       5                   5           5            5
Pigs - 12-34 weeks ....................       3                   3           3            3
Jarnary 22, 1975



BURMA
LIVESTOCK P1DJECT
Livestock Development
IDC Pig Production
Sales and OPerating Epenses Projection
(per LDC)
Before                          ear-------------
Development             1           2             3-15
Sales                                                                                (Kyats)
Breeding Gilts)
Breeding Boars)  1/ ..................             57,200              56,doo       125,200       143,200
Cull Stock      )
Cull Boars         2/ ..................             -                    -             250           250
Cull Sows           / ..................            1,000               102,500                     2,550
Total Sales                                  58,200               57,800      127,950       146,000
Operating Expenses
Feed     .       ..........                        31,000              41,300        75,500        83,800
Labour             . . .2,000                                           2,000   3,000   4,000
Veterinary and Kedicines    3 /                       600               2,200         2,200         2,200
Miscellaneous. .                                      500                  500        1,000         1,000
Maintenance .      .........,,.,. .....               550                  550        1,100         1,100
Boar 4/   -......                                                         -    14250  1.2g0
Total Operating Expenses                     34.6LO              46,550        84,050        93,350
Net Operating Income                                   23, 50               11,250       43,900        52,650
v/ Sold at 80 kg liveweight,average selling price K5/kg.
2/  Cull sows and boars sold at K250/head.
3/  K50/sow.
I;/  Price of boar - K1,000
February 24, 1975



B IJ R N A                                        ANNX 5
_________                            T~~~~~~~~~~'able 6
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Production
IDC Poultry Unit
Flock ProJection
Before             ------------Enc of Year---
Development             1                2             3 - 15
Average Yearly Flock Composition
Chicks and Growers     ....o.e.....o.              200                  430               635               635
Layers       oo......30e... eoo80 e.oO P360                             360               890
Total Birds                                560                  790             1,525            1,715
Purchases - chicks                                   490                   900            1,350             1,350
Mortality
Chicks and Growers     a..oe.... ...a               50                  100               150               150
Layers     *,ecooo@oooo......                      80                   80               200               240
Total Mortality                           130                   180               350              390
Sales
Culled Birds B                                     320                   320              320               960
Hatching Eggs    ooo**ooooe@*oQ6*O           (  54,000               54,000           133,500           162,000
Technical Coefficients
Age at Purchase - days       o                       1                     1                1                 1
Age at Sale - years .                                1.5                   1-5              1.5               1.5
Average Percentage of Hens Laying/day               50                    50               50                50
Feed Consumption:
Chick 0-6 weeks - kg/head oe.cooo                 1                   11                lo1               1o1
Grower 6-26 weeks - kg/head .......              7                    7                 7                 7
Layer - kg/year     4o,o.oooo.ee                 [0                   [0                40
Mortality:
Chicks and Growers -      % .......              11                   11                11                11
Layers - %            ....      .. ..            20                   20                20                20
January 27, 1975



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development
LDC Poultry Unit
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
(per LDC)
Before                  -----   Year -
Development            1             2               3 - 15
(Kyats)
Eggs (cr chick equivalent) ........27,000                               27,000        65,750            81,000
Hens     .       ......................**0 2400 _2,400                                                   7,200
Total Sales                               29,400              29,40o        68,150            88,200
OPERATING EXPENSES
Chick purchase  ...... .........09                     940                  820        1,020              2,700
Feed                ...... .....                    11,200              11,200        18,000             32,000
Medicines and Vaccines      .    ........               500                 600          600              2,100
Brooding Cost  .. ........ ...... e.                    36                   36            36                64
Electricity and Water    ..............                 36                   -             _ 3
Labor  ...........        . ... .........            2,000               2,000         2,000              3,000
Miscellaneous  .................. ... .....          1,000                l,O0         2,100              4,200
Total Operating Ecpenses                  15,712              15,706        23.756            44,464
Net Operating Income                                13,688               13,694       44,39              44,136
PRODUCTIONT COEFFICIENTS
Price per egg - KO.5
Hen weight - 1.5 kg
Hen price - K5.O/kg
Feed consumed:
Chick (0-6 weeks) 1.1 kg/bird
Grower (6-24 weeks) 7 kg/bird
Layer (6-1i months) 40 kg/bird/year
February 24, 1975
(DL



BURMR
LIVE51DCK PROJdCT
Livestodck Developmient
LDC Dairy DveloDnment
Herd Projection
Before--_-------_------------------End of Year_------------
Herd Gocapositi on                     De velopment           1           2           3           4           5           h            7-15
Breeding Cows and Heifers                   -                             35          45          50          50          50            50
Heifers 0-1 yr.                                                           15          21          24          27          27            27
Heifers 1-2 yr.                                                -           7          14          20          23          26            26
Sales
Cull Cows                                   -                  2           3           4           9          10          10            10)
Heiiers 1-2 yr.                             _0                             0           0           5          10          12            13
Bull Calves                                 _                  d          15          21          24          27          27            27
Milk (Liters)                               -                 17,000      36.000      60,000      61,000    102,000    102,000         102,000
Purchases
Crossbred Heifers 2-3 yrs.                                    20          20          10           -           -           -
Technical Coefficients
Calving rate                                                  65          65          65          65          90          90            90
Calf mortality                                                 6           5           5           5           5           5             5
Adult mortality                                                5           4           4           4           4           4             4
Cow culling rate                                              10          10          10          12          15          20            20
Milk sold per cow                                              1,000       1,200       1,400       1,600       1,600       1,800         1,600
January 23, 1975
C3 



B U R M A
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development
LDC Dairy Development
Sales and Operating Expense Projection
(per LDC)                     (thousand Kyats)
--- - - - - - -- - - - - - - -Years                           -- - - -
Sales                        1          2          3          4           5          6         7-15
Milk--'                     30.6      68.4      108         145.8      183.6       183.6      183.6
Cattle
Cull coiqg/              10         1.5        2.0         4.5        5.0         50        5-0
Bleifers_/               0          0          0           4.0        8.0         9.6       10.4
Buer Calve                 1 04    0.75       1.05       1.2         1.35       1.35        1.35
Total Sales                32.0       70.65     111.05     155,5       197.95     199.55      200.35
Operating Expenses
lAbor  ~     1~/                  8         10         12          12         12          12
Animal Health & MY           0.7       1.5        1.8         1.8        1.8         1.8        1.8
Concentrate Fee47/          10.5      21.0       26.5        32.0       32.0        32.0       32.0
Crop ProductionP./          1.0        2.0        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5
Pastu1re Maintenance2/        -        2.0        4.0         400        4.0        4,0         4.0
Tuel2 /                     1.0        2.0        2.5         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0
R & M 1/                      -         -         5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0
Miscellaneous               1.3        3,37       5.0         5.0        5.0         5.0        5.0
Total Expenses             18.5       39.87      57.3       65.3        65.3       65.3        65.3
Net Operating Income        13.5      30.78      53.75       90.2      132.65      134.25     135.05
1/  1 .8K/i                                                6/   K 36/cow.
2/  K500                                                    7/   1,OOOKg/cow/@ KO.6 per kg.
3/ K800                                                    5/   Seed & fertilizer K250/acre.
:/  K50                                                     2/   100 acres  K40/acre.                   F 
/  1 labor unit/lO cows at K2,000                        10/   20 gal/cow - K20/caw.
11/   5% on K100,000= K5,000                 \ \
February 25, 1975



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Dairy Development
I. Milk Production and Processing
A. General
1.01      The dairy cattle population of Burma comprises about 300,000 animals.
About 10% are buffalo, usually crossbreds between indigenous and Murrah types;
the other 90% are local zebu cattle often crossed with Indian dairy breeds.
Annual milk production approximates 150,000 tons, or about 15 gms per capita
per day (average Indian consumption is about 60 gms).
1.02      Imports of milk powder and condensed milk are limited by the
availability of foreign exchange. They approximated 65,000 tons, fresh
milk equivalent, in 1969 and have fallen to about 14,000 tons in 1973 with
the same annual foreign exchange expenditure of about K 24 M (US$4 M).
1.03      Though almost all farmers keep cattle, milk production is not a
traditional farm activity. Typically the farmer will own one or two cattle
and/or buffalo, subsisting largely on straw or other crop residues and such
grazing as they can find. These animals, though of poor quality, are indis-
pensable. They provide draft power for all farm operations and transport
and, in some cases, cash income through sales of surplus stock and milk.
Milk yields are very low and the marketing of this highly perishable commo-
dity is in the hands of middlemen who, being economically the stronger and
without much competition in the area each serves, tend to minimize the price
the farmer receives.
1.04      In these circumstances milk production, such as it is, tends to
be a specialized activity carried on near major markets by milk producers
on small plots, often of rented land. They would typically keep 2 to 10
cows in stalls at their home and purchase much of the feed required, comprising
cut grass, rice straw and grain by-products. Indian cattle of the Red
Sindhi and Hariana breeds are preferred, and the use of a communal bull at
a mating fee of K 25 per service is common.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
1.05      Apart from crop stubbles, grazing is usually available to cattle
on communal land and roadsides. During land cultivation, and towards the
end of the dry season, grazing and the supply of cut grass are greatly
restricted and cattle are noticably underfed. Milk supplies, in consequence,
tend to be seasonal with cows calving generally during the monsoon (July
to October). Milk yields per cow average 2-3 kg/day for a 200 day lactation
and cows commonly calve at 24 month intervals. Milk is sold normally through
middlemen who frequently provide advanced payment partly because the farmer
requires it, partly to ensure a continuing supply. The effective interest
rate paid by the producer for this accommodation is rarely less than 20 percent.
The primary middlemen frequently sell to city distributors who in turn
sell to retail consumers and tea and coffee shops. Adulteration of milk with
water is the norm, about 10-15% by the producer and another 15% by the middle-
man/distributor. The density of milk sold approximates 1.020 compared with
a pure milk standard of 1.032.
B. Expansion of Milk Supply
1.06      The four key constraints to an expansion of milk supplies - for
which a ready market exists-are:
(a) the inadequacy of current feeding practices;
(b) the poor genetic quality of Burmese cattle for milk production;
(c) a lack of local experience in intensive and semi-intensive
dairy production practices:
(d) an inadequate milk marketing system.
1.07      In these circumstances Government (GOB) proposes to initiate
intensified dairy production by:
(a)  stepping up artificial insemination (AI) services and making
available to small farmers, semen from high quality dairy
bulls;
(b) expanding the area of leguminous fodder and pasture
and intensifying dairy extension services;
(c) establishing two medium sized dairy farms and four small
dairy units on LDC (see Annex 5) to serve as pioneer
operations in intensive dairy production; these farms
would also provide surplus stock, training and demonstration
in milk production to smallholders;



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(d) constructing a new milk processing plant and ancilliary
milk collecting centers in the Rangoon area.
The Dairy Plant and Collecting Centers
1.08      Reliable estimates of the present milk supply to Rangoon are not
available but the bulk of marketed milk in Burma goes to Rangoon - possibly
50,000 1/day. To be financially viable, a modern milk plant should have a
throughout of at least 10,000 and preferably 25,000, 1/day. As a new plant
would have difficulty in diverting milk from the traditional middleman supply
system, the project dairy plant proposal is directed towards the processing
of incremental milk generated by complementary project activities.   This
increased production is to be directed through ten service collecting centers
strategically located in the milksheds serving Rangoon, accompanied by inten-
sive extension and Al programs. These centers are to be organized and
operative in Year 1 of the project and incremental milk supplies resulting
from the first crossbreds (from AI in Year 1) would be available to the plant
in Year 4 when the plant is planned to start processing.
1.09      Each service center would be supported by one full time extension
officer with motorcycle transport. Participating producers would receive
guidance on dairy cattle management, feeding, calf rearing, forage production,
crossbreeding, artificial insemination, milking hygiene and the detection
of the correct time for mating. As crossbreeding with exotic dairy cattle
(Holstein, Jersey, Swiss Brown) is a key step to increasing milk production
in Burma, each center would provide, through the extension officer, a
local AI service using exotic semen procured daily from the government dairy
farm near Rangoon. Each center would also have a clerk, experienced in milk
testing who would pay producers on the basis of butter-fat content.
1.10      Each center would have three rooms; one for AI services, one for
storing and selling balanced feed, and one for receiving, testing and storing
milk until collected by a truck provided by the milk plant. Milk would
normally be received and collected twice daily.
1.11      Two centers would be additionally equipped with chilling units.
These would be centers where the total time involved in waiting and freighting
the milk would exceed four hours, a safe limit to avoid souring in the
Burmese climate. All milk would be transported in 40 1 cans.
1.12      Center location would be based on a survey to be conducted by a
dairy engineering and marketing consulting firm (para 1.16(a)) to be hired
under the project. Dairy extension staff would be recruited and trained in
Year 1. They would be directed by the Divisional Milk Collection and
Extension Manager of the Dairy Plant (see Annex 12 Chart 2). Training would
take place at the Government dairy farm near Rangoon; instruction would be
the overall responsibility of the Extension Manager, assisted by the Dairy
Livestock Development Officer and based on the training program successfully
developed by the National Dairy Development Board at Anand in India.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Milk Supply Proiection
1.13      The indigenous cow produces an average 500 1 per lactation and
has a calving rate of about 50%. Based on the Indian experience, a crossbred
cow with 50% exotic blood would yield about 1,800 1 per lactation. With
improved nutrition and the timely use of AI, the calving rate would be
increased and, assuming that about 75% of the producers associated with
each center supply milk to the dairy plant through the collection center
system, ten centers, each supporting some 600 cows, would provide at full
development some 21,000 1 of incremental milk each day. It has been further
assumed that the plant share of the traditional (existing) production, would
not be more than about 5,000 1/day, out of the total estimated 50,000, because
of competition from middlemen. Milk supplies from the government dairy farm
and LDC within the Rangoon area would raise total milk procurement to about
27,000 1/day.
Organization
1.14      The Milk Processing component of the project would be the res-
ponsibility of a dairy plant general manager reporting to the LDMC General
Manager. The plant general manager would be assisted by four divisional
managers: Milk Collection-Extension; Processing; Marketing; and Administra-
tion. The plant general manager and divisional managers for Milk Collection-
Extension and Administration would be recruited and appointed as soon as
suitable candidates could be found. Their early appointment would permit a
timely start on the work related to siting (based on survey) and construction
of the milk collection centers and recruitment and training of staff. Four
fellowships would be available for three months training at the National
Dairy Development Board in Anand, Gujarat, India.
1.15      The Processing Manager would be responsible for the dairy plant
operations and product quality. The Marketing Manager would be responsible,
primarily, for promoting the sale of LDMC dairy products through tea-shops,
grocery stores and plant-owned booths.
C. The Dairy Processing Plant
Consultant Services
1.16      As soon as the credit had been declared effective, or before,
proposals would be sought for a package of services from a firm of dairy
consultants (Terms of Reference in Annex 13 Appendix 3). The services
would include:
(a) surveying the present status of dairy development in the
Rangoon area with two distinct objectives: (i) to survey



ANNEX 6
Page 5
the Rangoon milkshed in order to define optimium
location of the proposed collecting centers; (ii) to
survey the Rangoon dairy market, evaluate its potential,
and make recommendations for the optimal product mix
for the new dairy plant;
(b) preparation of complete engineering specifications and
tender documents, based on the recommendations resulting
from the survey; the specifications and documents would
be subject to approval by IDA and would call for a single
contractor to build the plant on a turn-key basis. Civil
works, however, would be carried out by the Burmese Govern-
ment's Construction Corporation, under the technical super-
vision of the contractor;
(c) analysis of the bids received and recommendation to LDMC on
the most appropriate proposal, including legal and technical
advice on the contractual arrangements;
(d) supervising the construction of the plant to assure the
contractor's fulfillment of specifications, witnessing
start-up and trial runs;
(e) assisting the Dairy Plant General Manager during the first
year of operation with technical advice in milk transportation,
milk and dairy product processing, quality control and dairy
plant maintenance; also assisting with marketing and costing
of dairy products;
(f)  in Year 3 surveying the milkshed and market of the city of
Mandalay, and preparing a feasibility study for the
construction of a dairy plant with extension-milk collection
centers on similar lines to those proposed for Rangoon.
Capacity-Product Mix
1.17      Considering the seasonality of milk production and the projected
supply and demand of milk,the plant capacity would be about 30/32,000 1/day,
processed in two shifts. A likely product mix, indicated in Table 3, has
been used to determine investment costs and projected operating results.
The milk would be standardized at 1.5% butterfat content in order to be com-
petitive with the current market price of adulterated milk and to bring about
a gradual decline in the milk price to the consumer from about K 3.0/1 to
an average K 2.4/1 in Year 6 (Table 3).
Construction - Equipment
1.18      The plant would meet the sanitary standards of such well-known
milk-producing countries as New Zealand, Denmark or Sweden. The main pro-
cessing areas would be enclosed to avoid access of insects and birds. The



ANNEX 6
Page 6
floor would be smooth and acid resistant and pitched with adequate drainage
in enclosed Pines. The walls would be impervious, smooth and washable.
Ceilings of smooth concrete, would not be painted. The construction would
be modular to facilitate expansion; the processing areas and chill-rooms
would have room to accommodate additional equipment and product for a
50% increase in capacity.
1.19      The dairy processing equipment would be stainless steel of modern
sanitary design for receiving, clarifying, chilling, pasteurising, homogeni-
zing, standardizing and bottling milk.  Processing equipment would also be
provided for butter, ghee, condensed milk and ice cream and, possibly,
yoghurt if the proposed dairy survey finds it justified. A triblender would
be included for reconstituting milk from powder.
Costs
1.20      Total cost for the dairy processing plant, including extension-
collection centers and consultant services, would amount to about K 13.2
million (US$2.1) - without contingencies (Table 1); the foreign exchange
component would be about 56%. Tables 2, 3 and 4 summarize income and
operating cost projections and Table 5 depicts the expected cash flow.
D. Dairy Processing Benefits
1.21      By Year 6 of the project, the following direct benefits would
accrue in the Rangoon area from the Dairy Processing component of the
project:
(a) Milk Production: would have increased by 6.3 million
1/year or 23% of present production;
(b) Milk Producer Prices: would have increased from a
present average of K 1.50 to K 1.80/1;
(c) Crossbreeding: The total population of crossbred
cows would be about 7,000;
(d) Fluid Milk Prices: The current consumer price of K 2.50
- 3.50/1 of adulterated milk would have dropped to
K 2.40/1 pasteurized milk (1.5% butterfat);
(e)  Employment:  About 170 direct employment opportunities
would be created (Table 4);
(f) Financial Rate of Return: based on the assumptions of
Tables 3 and 4 the financial rate of return on L.DMC
investment in the milk plant would be about 31%' before
income tax and interest.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
II. Government Dairy Farms
2.01      A basic policy decision of GOB is to expand dairy production.
Major constraints to dairy development in Burma are: the dairy merit of
present cattle; seasonal inadequacies in feed supplies; and lack of local
experience in improved dairy production practices.
2.02      To overcome the first two constraints, the widespread use of AI
is planned to provide a means of upgrading the genetic quality of small-
holders' cattle for milk production, and forage and feed concentrate pro-
duction are being expanded to improve feed supplies. To overcome the lack
of experience in the management techniques of specialized dairy production,
and to provide focal points for dairy development, GOB plans to construct
and operate two moderate sized dairy units of 200 cows, one near Rangoon,
the other near Mandalay, and to incorporate small dairy units in four LDC.
2.03      Each Government Dairy Farm would have approximately 2 ac of flat
to gently sloping land per breeding cow. Approximately 1.7 ac of pasture
and 0.3 ac of crop for silage would be grown per cow each year.   Silage
would be made in pits from chopped maize and sorghum. A yield of 18 tons/ac
of 28% dry matter (124) silage is projected, using seed rates of 20 lb/ac and
130 lb of N:P fertilizer nutrient basis); 120 tons of silage dry matter would
be the annual requirement per 100 cows. The initial dairy herd would come
from crossbreds now being produced under the ongoing program, using imported
Friesian semen. Pasture yields of 8,000 lb DM/ac are projected. Trials have
shown that it is difficult to mobilize and operate draft cattle to plow the
400 ac of pasture land needed for a 200-cow herd. Each farm would therefore,
be mechanized to the extent of one 45 RP tractor, with cultivation equipment,
forage harvester and trailer. Cows would be housed in wooden pole barns
with 24 hour/day grazing access, except when pastures are bare. At this
time, silage would be fed ad-lib in feed bunkers adjacent to the barns.
Milking would be by hand in a simple walk-through milk parlor. Each 100
cows would have 10 milkers and one supervisor. Concentrate feed supplements
(0.5 ton/cow annually) would be supplied in the milking parlor and a mineral
supplement based on dicalcium phosphate would be available continuously.
2.04      An external boundary fence would be maintained in a 100% stock-
proof condition to ensure no contact with local cattle can occur.
2.05      Details of the herd projection, cost estimates and sales and opera-
ting expenses for a 200-cow dairy unit are shown in Tables 6-8. The rate
of return for the dairy farms is estimated at 16%.



LIV-ZT0lX PROJECT
;kiry Deelopmeent
Rarigook Ihilk Processing Plant V
Cost VIt&Fte
(February 1975 prices)                                                               Percent
UnTt                 Unit          Year           Year           Year           Year                           Foreign
Iten                          Capazc ties          Cost             1              2              3             4            Total            kohanee
ts-)                     - - housd              --------- ---------------
1. Site Prenaration                  20,000i2               0.5 per x2    10             .              _              _              10
2. Civi 1  ork 21
Plant yards, fencing, infra-
structure                         2, Wta2             175 per *2                                                                 NO               35
Procesaing and refrigeration
buildings                           600 .2            1,120 per &2                                                               670               45
Other plant and office
buildings                            250m2            975 per  12 245                                                                              35
Auxiliary buildings                  250*2             550 per z2                                                                 135               30
Water storage                          50m3            550 per a3                                                                  25               30
Sewage treatment structure         200m3 per day       325 per m3                                                                  65              25
Staff housing                      5 at 1002 each   650 per 2                                                                    325               30
lo Milk collection centers         10 at 5Um2 each   300 per a2                                                                   150              10
Subtotal                                                   3r,             7Z                             .           1,;5               35
Water wells, pumps, supply lines  2 0 200 1            75,000 /unit                                                               150              80
per min
Power lines,substation,switch
gear                              2 0 75 kw           900 per kw                                                                 135              95
Package steam generators, fuel
tanks, etc.                       2 0 1,500           130,000/unit                                                               260
kg per hr.
Refrigerating equipment,
cooling, units, etc.              2 @ 30 tons         3,250 per ton                                                              195              95
Service lines, maintenance
equipment (10%)                                                                                                                   75              90
CratLng,iaresme. rreight (20%)                                                                                                    150              b5
Inst-allation (10%)                                                   9-                                                                           00
Subtotal                                                                                                                                 d6
4. Dairying Machiner  ard &quiDient
Mllk reception and can washing    25,000 1            180,000                                                                     180              95
per day
Pasteurization, chilling,etc.       2,000 1           ;90,000                                                                     590              95
per hr
Milk storage                       50,000 1           245,0oo                                                                     245              95
Dairy product processing W         10,000 I          285,00o                                                                      285              95
per day
Milk bottling line                  3,000 1           560,000                                                                     560              95
per hr
Piping and fittings (5%)                -                -                                                                         90              95
Milk chilling units                2 0 5,000 1        260,ooo                                                                     520              95
10 Milk collection center kits    10 centers          2.5                                                                          25              70
Office, lab, maintenance, spares        -                -                                                                         65              90
Crating, insurance, treight (2'3)       -                -                                                                        460              85
Installation (15%)                     -                 -                                        2                                                60
Subtotal                                                      30             92,89
,otal Itees I - 4                                          621           l,9S6          3,388            405          6, 400
1/   Plant capacity of 30,000 1  per day based on 2 shifts.  The plant would be designed in year 1 and constructed in year 2-3.  Operation
vould coammerce in year 4.
2/   In Burma all land is government owned, therefore, no land value is shown.
3/  Construction or sub-contractirg through the Construction Corporation according to aesign ard supervision of the engineering consultants    o-
(see footnote under Item S below).
L/   According to eXpectea pronuct mix described in this Annex.
February 24, 1975



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Dairy Development
Rangoon Milk Processing Plant -
Cost Estimate
(February 1975 prices)
Percent
Unit               Unit          Year            Year          Year           Year                           Foreign
Capacities         Cost            1               2             3              4           Total            Exchange
Mi ta) ---------- (thousand Kyats) ----------------
Trck ;Mjortation Equipment6                           90,000          -              90            180            270           540              95
Automobiles (4-wheel drive
pick-up)                              2             52,000          52              -             52             -            104              95
Motorcycles                            10            214,500         145              _-                           -            145               95
Milk Cans                          650 d 40 1         170            _               -              40             70            110              95
each
Subtotal                                                    197              90            272           340            899              95
6.    _         atitn  Conaultanta 
2Eng neering
Project preparation, extension                                       475            500            470             -          1,445
Consultants' services 1/                                             325            170            235            520         1,250               90
Engineering (contractoF's) 2/                                        12             LO             625             80         1                   75
Subtotal                                                                  1,07           1,330                        13 32              52
Total It_n  1 - 6                                              1,TS8           3,246          4, g0         1,345         11,210              67
7. Trairne (key personnel) 2/                                          60              10             10            10             90              50
8. Working Capital 4                                                     -             _                -           270            270
Total Items 1 - 8                                               1,798          3,156         5,000          1,625         11,579              65
5 /
9. Inort Duties ard Taxes -/                                            285            _6Q_                         295          1.672
GRILD IDTAL                                                     23518                         5,730                                           56
'000 US$ Equivalent                                                  334            564            918           308          2,124              56
1/  Would include- initial dairy surwey; preparation of the plant design; procurement through competitive bidding of civil worka and
equipment; supervision of construction; supervision and provision of teocnical assistance during first year of operation; and
preparation of a feasibility study for the propoaed Mandalay dairy plant
2/   20% of Items 2, 3 and mh.
3/  Including 4 fellowships for 3 months training at the National Dairy Institute, Anand, Oujerat State, India.
4/ Revolving operating expenses for one month.
5/30% on imported construction saterials; 15%ngrcessing equipment; 30% on trucks; 50% on motorcycles; 125% on automobiles; 25% on consultants'
services; 30i office add sall equipment; a  %  customs thandling fee on all imported items.
February 24, 1975                                                                                                                                         m
0l



B U R M A
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Rangoon Milk Processing Plant
Income and Operating Cost Projections
 --------------------- Y e a r s            ---- -_-____________
1          2          3          4          5        6-15
Volume
Total Milk Processed, Million Liters                      1/        --          --         --        2.6        6.2        9.7
Total Balanced Feed sold '000 Tons                        2/                   0.2        0.5        0.9        2.1        3.2
Income                                                      3/        -----------------------Million Kyats-----------------
Pasteurized Milk                                                    --          --         --        3.74      10.13     17.47
Butter and Ghee                                                     --          --         --        1.26      2.88       4.32
Condensed Milk                                                      --          --         --        3.24       6.24       7.68
Ice Cream                                                           --          --         --       1.35       2.58       3.03
Commission on S'le of Feed                                4/        --         0.02       0.05      0.09       0.21       0.32
AI Services                                               5/       0.02        0.04       0.05       0.06       0.10      0.13
Total Income                                                       0.02        0.06       0.10       9.74     22.14      32.95
Operating Cost                                              6/
Direct Costs
Raw Milk Purchases                                                  --          --         --        4.68      11.16      17.46
Extension Services and Milk Collection                             0.34        0.52       0.52      0.56       0.80       1.02
Direct Labor                                                        --          --         --       0.11       0.14       0.16
Utilities                                                           --          --         --       0.23       0.5O       0.78
Materials, Retailing Expenses                                       --          --         --        1.48       3.30      5.o8
Taxes                                                                                      _        0.42       0.87        1.18
Sub-Total Direct Cost                                              0.34        0.52       0.52       7 .48     16.77     25.68
Overhead Costs
Maintenance Labor and Materials                                     --          --         --        0.12       0.18       0.23
Supervisory, Technical and Administrative Personnel                0.02        0.02       0.02      0.08       0.08       0.08
Administration Expenses                                            0.01        0.01       0.01       0.20      0.35       0.50
Plant Management                                                   0.01        0.01       0.02      0.04       0.04       0.04
Sub-Total Overhead Costs                                           0.04        0.04       0.05      0.44       0.65       0.85
Total Operating Cost                                               0.38        0.56       0.57       7.92     17.42      26.53
Net operating Surplus  (Denicit)                          7/      (0.36)      (0.50)    (0.47)      1.82       4.72       6,42
1/  Prom Annex 6 Table 4.
2/  At 3 I/Kg. balanced feed, allowing for some farmers reluctance to purchase balanced feed.
3/  Based on Annex 6   Table 3.
4/ At K 0.1/kg sold net.
5/ At K 5.-/AI, number of AI based on two Al to indigenous cows/day/center, 401 conception rate and additional AI to crosabreds in their third
year and thereafter to maintain a calving rate of 70%.
6/  Based on 4nnex   6 Table 4 .                                                                                                                              .
7/  Net operating cost during years 1 - 3 have been capitalized.
February 25, 1975



BURML
IaVESTOCK PROJET
Rangoon Milk Processing Plant
Assmpntions far Computing Sales Revemnes
------------Years-----------           Average
1        4        5        6            Yield              Sales Price
Rangoon, Urban Population (Million) 1/              2.1       2.2      2.3      2.4            -_
Rangoon, Milk Deand (thousand liters/day)?/        74.0    80.0        95.0   101.0            __                     __
Milk Processing Plant, Average Volume
(thousand liters/day) Y                              -        7.1      17.0    26.7
Feasible Product Mix                                  --Percent of Yearly Volume--
(K 4.90/viss) K 3.0O/lat booth (Year 4)
Pasteurized Milk in Bottles                        --        60        68      75                   (K 4.40/viss) K 2.70/lat booth (Year 5)
(K 14.- /viss) K 2.40/ lat booth (Year 6 and after)
Butter-Ghee  /2.5%    (K30.- /viss) Kld.00/kg delivered
Condensed Milk 6/                                            35        28       22        30%       (K20.- /viss) K12.00/kg delivered
Ice Creanm                                                              4        3       130%       (K13.- /visa) K o.O0/kg delivered
I/ Urban popultion assumed increases 5% yearly
I/ Based on a daily intake of 35 grams/capita/day in Year 1 and incremental milk production from crossbreeding: 1/day : 3,000/Year 4; 10,000/Year 5;
17,000/Year 6
Quality of milk sold: Fat 1.5%, SNF (solids non fat) 8.5%
Sold in i 1 bottles at grocery stores and plant owrmd boths, prices have been assumed to drop 10% in year 5 and year 6 due to increased
supplies
Butter and ghee would be obtained fran standardizing bottled milk at 1.5% fat
/ Sold in returnable jars; total solids of 73%, sugar 45%.                                                                                                55
CD
January 28, 1975                                                                                                                                         \o0



B U R M A
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Rangoon Milk Processing Plant
Assumptions for Computing Operating Costs
----------------------- Y e a r s --------------------                     P r i c e
Cost Per Unit
Unit           1           2           3          4           5            6               orUnit
Raw Milk Supplies
Rangoon Dairy Farm                                       1 /day         --           --          --         100         350         550
Livestock Development Centers                                           --           --          --          --          50         100
Indigenous Cows of Traditional Producers                   1/           --          --           --      3,000        4,000       5,000
Crossbred cows of Traditional Producers                    2/           --          --           --      4,000       12,600      21,000       ) K   1.80/1  at collection aenters
and LDC or farm gate
Sub-total                                          la /dy                                          7,100      17,000      26,650
Sub-Total                                     million 1 /year   --            --          --         2.6         6.2         9.7
Extension Services and Milk Collection                       3/
Inseminator-Secretary                                   Persons         12          12           12          14          18          22         K 200/man month
Extension Worker                                        Persons         12           12          12          12          12          12         K 200/man month
Semiskilled Labor                                       Persons          5            5           5          15          15          15         K 170/m&n month
Transportation Costs                                                 -- K 22/day/extension worker --         40          20          18
Fresh Semen                                             Doses 4/    9,175       18,250      18,250      18,250       29,200      36,500         K  20/dose
Direct Labor                                                 5/
Unskilled                                               Persons         --         -_            --          30          35          40         K 150/man montb
Skilled                                                 Persons         --          --          --           25          30          35         K 200/mn month
Utilities
Skilled Labor                                           Persons         --          --                       12          12          12         K 200/man month
Fuel, Lubricants, Water Treatment                                       --          --          --       -- 100 kg. fuel/l,000  1/day --     K   0.30/kg. fuel
Power L     c     -W r e                                                                                    -- 100 KWH/1,000  1/day --          K   0.45/KWH
Materials. Taxes
Sugar, Ingredients                                                      --          --          --      -_ 0.5 Kg./Kg. Condensed Milk --    K   8.-/kg.
Milk Bottles and Caps                                                    --         --        ~       ~     ------ 5% Breakage  -------         K   0.30/unit
Packaging Materials for Milk Products                                   --          --          --                                              K   0 12/1
Cleaning and General Materials                                                                                                                  K   0.01/1
Retailing Cost of Bottled Milk and Products                6/           --          --          --           40          20          18         K       /1.000  1/day
Butter           157. on cost
Sales Tax                                                                                                                                     ( Condensed Milk   5% on cost
S   Ice cream        5% on cost
Overhead
Maintenance Labor                                                                                            10          12          14         K 200/man month
Maintenance Materials                                      7/           --          --           --    100,000    150,000    200,000            K    /year
Supervisory Personnel                                                   2-          2-          4-            9           9           9         K 400/man month
Technical Personnel                                                      2            2           2           4           4           4         K 400/mn month
Administrative Personnel                                                 2            2           2           4           4           4         K 300/man month
Administration Expenses                                                 --          --           --    200,000    350,000    500,000            K    /year
Plant Management                                                         2            2           3           5           5           5         K 600/man month
Number of Persons Employed                                                 35          35          36         140         156         172
1/  Indigenous cows are assumed to produce 500 1 per lactation, supplies tr the plant would be low due to scarcity and competition from private dealers.
2/ Based on ten collection centers, 2 Al daily per center 40% conception rate; 1,oQO 1 /lactation of crossbreds in fourth year after AT and additional AI
service to maintain a calving rate of crossbreds of 70%.
3/ Milk collection centers also serve as Al and extension centers.
4/  Based on 5 doses/day/collection center in years 1 - 4, 8 in year 5 and 10 thereafter.
5/  includes drivers and vending booths attendants.                                                                                                                                        *I
6/  Based on three 6 ton trucks, each travelling 200 km/day in year 4, 250 km/day in year 5 and 300 km/daily thereafter.
7/  Includes maintenance of trucks.
February 25, 1975



B U RM A
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Rangoon Milk Processing Plant
Financial Rate of Return 1/
-------__------------------------------------------- ____---____-_--- Y e a r s ----------------------------~-~~~--
1      2     3        4       5        6       7        8       9         10     11        12      13       14      15              Totals
Benefits                                           -------illion Kyats--------
Total Incoome          --     --    --      9.7   22.1      33.0   33.0       33.0   33.0      33.0   33.0      33.0   33.0       33.0   33.0              361.6
Costs
Investments 2/        1.9    3.5   5.7      1.9      -      0.2      0.1      0.3    0.3         -     0.2        0.1    0.A       0.3    -                  14-8
Operating Costs 3/    --       --    --     7.9   17.4    26.5    26.5    26.5   26.5          26.5   26.5      26.5   26.5       26.5   26.5               290.3
Total Costs            1.9   3.5   5.7      9.8   17.h    26.7    26.6    26.8   26.8          26.5   26.7      26.6   26.8       26.8   26.5               305.1
Net Benefits          (1.9) (3.5) (5.7)   (0.1)   4.7        6.3     6.4      6.2    6.2        6.5    6.3       6.IL   6.2        6.2    6.5                56.7
Financial Rate of Return:  31 %
11 Before income taxes and interest.
2/  TransportaTion eqiipment replaced every five years.  Costs include import duties and contingencies.
3/ Including sales taxes on dairy products, excluding interest on borrowings.
Febrtary, 25,1975



BURKA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Dairy Development
Dairy Farm Model
Herd Projection
Endof Year----------------------------------------------------
1         2           3           4            5           6           7           6           9  -  15
Herd Composition
Breeding Cows                70         132         ldO         194         200         200         200          200         200
Heifer 0-1 yr.               32          61          62          96         106         106         106          106         106
Heifers 1-2 yr.               0          30          5          76          92         103         103          103         103
Deaths
Breeding Cows                 2           5           6           8          10          10          10           10          10
Heifers 0-1                   2           2           4           5           4           6            6           6           6
Heifers 1-2                   0           2           3           4            3          4            5           5           5
Sales                  Units
Cull Cows   No.               8          13          16          36          42          42          42           42          42
Heifers      No.              0           0           0          20          4o          51           51          51          51
Bull Calves No.              32          61          70          96         106         108         108          10         lOd
Milk          1.             68         153         240         323         406         406         40d          406         406
Purchases
In-calf Heifers              do          do          40
Technical Coefficients
Calving Rate                 65          65          65          d5          90          90           90          90          90
Calf Mortality                6           5                       5           5           5            5           5           5
Adult Mortality               5           4           4           4           4           4            4           4           4          ON
Cows Culled                  10          10          10          15          15          20           20          20          20
Milk Sold/Cow             1,000       1,200       1,400       1,600       1,600       1,600       1,600       1,800        1,800
January 16, 1975



BUaN kNNEX 6
Tabl-e 7
LIVESTOCK PROJET
Dairy Development
Two Government Deiry Farms
- atestimates
(February 1975 prices)
Units                                     Cost for 2 Farms                                      Percentage
Capacities         Urit           Year           Year          Year                             Foreign
per Fax.           Cost             1              2                            Total           &ch- e_
;ts)-----------------(thousand KyaT-------_----
1. Farm Improvetnents
Poie b ri                   1,000.2     100 per *2              80             so            40              200               10
Milk Shed                     OOM2      320 m_. ?                              -24
Store                         20C.2     320  r 2                               6h            64              120               2_
Office                         50.2     440 per                  _44                           -              44               35
Tractor shed                  10O.2     160 per m2               -             32              -              32               24
\faterpoint, pipes,troughs      -             -                 13             13              -              26               80
Staff housing-manager           1       53,500                 107              -              -             107               30
supervisors      2        21,500                  43            43              -               86              3)
workers         20        10,500                 126           168            126              420              30
Yoang stock pens              200.2     160 per  2               -             64              -              64               24
Bull pens                      76.2     320 per m2                -            2              22              49               24
Subtotal                                                3                                         1,220               26
2. nt.hlz A+_t.r "t'rs:n
Improvemerts
Fenci m                         4kn     3,350 per km            13             14              -              27               46
Cattle spray  race, crush       -             -                 10              -              -              10               10
Silage pits                 6,00O03     2 per m3                12             12              -              24               10
Feed bunkers                   8om      50 per m                                4              -               8               10
Subtotal                                               39             30             -               6               24
3. Pasture Fstablishment           34oac      150 per ac             40             40             22             102
4. Equient
1       45,500                  91              -             -               91               95
Tractor implements          1 setL].    58,500                 117                             -             117               95
Nilrk cooler, filIter           t
arl  cars    f             let          9,100                  13              5              -              1d               95;
Tools and spares                -        3,900                   8              -              _               8               95
Subtotal                                              229                           -              23                95;
5. Crossbred Cows                  200         1,000                 160           160             80              400
6. Current Inpts
Imported semen              1,800        32                      38            38             39             115               95
doses
Fertilizers                    10
tons       1,000                   10              6              4              20               53
Ifixed feed                   100
tons         500                   50             40            10              100
Animal health requisites        -            -                   29            49             72              150              80
Subtotal                                              iM             133           1 23                              62
Total                                                     l,02b            903            7             2,M                 33
Import 6utie  s and TaxesL/                                           57            54             27              138               -
UNANW           77rsL 2. 931
1/  Consisting of: trailer ( ,500? spraying uiit ( 5,200); disc plough ( 7,80C(;
chisel plough (15.209; barrow (3,900); ridger (5,XS9); seed drill  (9,100)
forage harvester (13,000); rotary mower (2,600).
2/ Construction materials 30%; processing equipment 15%; tools and spEres
30%; and 4% custom handling for all imported goods.
February 25, 1975



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Dairy Development
Da4Uy Farm Model
Sales and Operating Expense Projection
(thousand Kyats)
Sales                                                 --------------------------- Years-------------------------
Unit Value           1          2           3          4           5          6 - 15
Milk                                K8         1      (68)        (153)      (240)       (323)      (408)      (406)
122.4       275.4       432        581.4       734.4     734.4
Cattle
Cows                   K500         No       (8)        (13)        (16)       (36)        (42)       (42)
4.0         6.5         8.0       18.0        21.0      21.0
Heifers                 K800        No       (O)         (0)         (0)       (20)        (40)       (51)
0           0          0          16.0        32.0      48.0
Bull calves             K50         No     (32)         (61)        (70)       (96)       (108)     (108)
1.6         3.0         3.5        4.8        -5.4         .
Total Sales                                           128.0       284.9       443.5      620.2       792.8      808.8
Operating Expenses
Labor  1]                                    12.0        32.0        40.0        40.0       40.0       40.0
Animal Health                                 2.4         4.6        6.3         6.8         7.0       7.0
Concentrate Y                               28.0         76.0      100.0       100.0      100.0      100.0
Crop Production 4V                           4.3          8.6       10.8        1o.8        10.8      10.8
Pasture Maintenance 5/                       0            8.0       16.0        16.0        16.0      16.0
Fuel Y                                        4.0         6.o       10.0        10.0        10.0      10.0
Equipment Repairs and
Maintenance V                              0            0           6.7        6.7         6.7       6.7
Building Maintenance  /                      0           22.0        !8.o       61.0        61.0      61.0
Contingencies  2/                             4.0        13.5        20.0       20.0        20.0      20.0
Total Expenses                                         54.7        170.7      257.8       271.3      271,5      271.5
Net Operating Income                                   73.3        114.2      185.7       348.9      521.3      537.3
/ 10 dows/labor unit/at K2000
/K3 3/cow; vaccines and medicines
1000 Kg/cow at KO.5 Kg.
V   Seed and fertilizer at K270/ac.
100 ac at K40/ac
K2.5/gal, 20 gal/cow . K50/cow
7   10% on tractors (45,500); 3% remainder (71,500) from Year 3
5% on buildings starting year after construction                                                                             o 
/ 10%
February 25, 1975



L%I3ZocLK4&R.<      K           K    K  KKKRKKHHKK                                                  K   K K
KK 2 K K t.' KRIK
K ?  K  RKKRKK                                                            K K             K K
                    K 2
K   1K  K                          MO>                  2K  K-
KKKKKK        2                            2           K-K  ''    2K  K K           -
                                                      K KK KMKRKKKK U   RK                       kK> KM
oRg                                  U                   57
UKMKKKRKK*               K  2K                   2   K                         k       2K    K   KR   K 1K
7                       I                                             HR 02  K  OK   'K 2o 2 K
5K  KKKKR            2        8                                                  P
KR      KR                                                HO K" KR>  KR 2 K
KKSKKKKKI                                                                                     K   K   K.
* "K..   KR                                                                                Kb     R      K
KK-KK  KKK                                                                                  2K
2      K   K   KR  K   K                  71-   K
K 20    K
KKKKKK%2             2 2   2                 2                                                K>  KR  KO >50  K
2  K  KR       2K                                                    2K    . L
K                                2                                             2
KK  OKOKS                                     K            K       K KK  K K        2      KKK-K2
KKKKK 2                            2        KK KO                              K2        1K    K
K  K IRK K                                                        K  K  2K      5.                   222   2<
KKK.4KKK                  K  K                                     22222
KKKKK Kgo                                     2                                   2
222K? OK
K
2722           222 22KK22 2                   8                                                    2  2  22
KKK K KK  22> K27 202K   2K 2K 2K22KK2KKK2242KR22 KKKK29S2KR
KKK         KR                 K   K   KS.   K   K              K      KKKK
KR     K   K  *'KK  K K ORK KKKKKK -K 'K RK  KR 'OK   K 'OK KR KR 'KR  K    K    K
2 272           RKK  77 2                                                                   K K  K  K K
K    KK7K  <>          KR     KRRKKKK.KKKKKKK.KK           KR KR KR  KRRRK  KM
KKKK2K52222I1K2222t 2K2KK2-K2222222o222E  02KK22221  SO  0 00
50K  K              K'% KR       KKKK7KK   K>          >2KM  RK
KKKKKK   7RK K KKKKKK                   22 KR KK>-    K > KKKKKK   2    KKKK  K KK
22 >'    <       2-      2    AKRK
K22            K2 2K2 22K 22 220 02         KR .5K K KKKK   2         K             K  2        2 2  2  2  K
KK   K KKK     >00K             K       K        K   K               22 2 22
-  K                        K                   K
5  K   KR  K                     K  K    K
KKK K   K                                             7o    70K                        2K       K
I
2.{
.- I { -K'
-     I                   '    2KK
I                     'OK
I                                7K2lb
SKIKKKKR
K K..I
2                                                                         T
K        K-                                                        IT
K                                                         II            .1.                              K'
K                                                                  I.E                                     .
III                                                                 K
'}'  *I               .
12
N;
R2                             K
K       8                             10






ANNEX 7
Page 1
BUTRMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Education and Training
Present Extension Services
1.01      Amongst the farmers of Burma the transfer of skills and knowledge
has traditionally been from father to son. A competence in traditional
agricultural techniques, an aversion to risk, and a reserved attitude
towards change and innovation characterize farmer attitudes. The main
extension service in Burma is that provided by the Agricultural and Rural
Development Corporation, a semi-autonomous Government organization having
close ties with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, which controls the
distribution, sales and marketing of all agricultural requisites and pro-
duce. For about every 800 farmers the Corporation has one field assistant,
of whom there are about 5,000 in all. Approximately 800 field inspectors
promoted by on-the-job selection, supervise the field assistants. Above
the field inspectors are some 400 Deputy Township Managers, who are graduates
of the two Agricultural Institutes, and 200 Township and Divisional Managers,
most of whom are university graduates in agriculture.
1.02      Field assistants are trained at farm sch"ols located at agricultural
research stations of the Ministry of Agriculture arn Forests. Courses last
nine months and the entrance requirement is comwletion of school standard 8.
Government is now building two animal husbandry schools which will provide
a two year practical training program for about 200 students each year. It
is envisaged that the schools will also be used for the provision of short-
duration training cjurses for the adult farming population in new techniques
of animal husbandry.
1.03      The Veterinary Service of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
has 100 graduate veterinary surgeons assisted by 800 veterinary inspectors
working at village tract level. Private veterinary practice is negligible.
Graduate veterinarians are trained at the Institute of Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Science (IAHVS), at Insein near Rangoon; veterinary assistants
are trained at the Veterinary Training Institute, also at Insein.
1.04      Additional Government services to agriculture include those of
the Irrigation Department, which supervizes irrigation and flood control
projects, and the Agricultural Mechanical Department which provides
machinery services and the contract use of tractors.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Training of Agronomists
1.05      One thousand students (admission 200 per year) are enrolled in a
5-year program of undergraduate agricultural studies at the Institute of
Agriculture. This Institute was originally located on the campus of the
University of Mandalay, but as facilities and land were extremely limited
the Institute is currently being relocated at Yezin and FAO/UNDP are
helping to strengthen teaching and research programs. The curriculum is
oriented towards plant science with relatively little emphasis on animal
husbandry, agricultural engineering and agricultural economics. Courses
in agricultural economics are provided at the Institute of Economics and
in agricultural engineering at the Institute of Technology, both of
which are in Rangoon.
1.06      There are now 11 agricultural high schools under the Ministry of
Education (up from four in 1961-62 and nine in 1971-72) with an average
enrolment of 1968 (1971-72) and a teaching staff of 15. They have a common
curriculum which devotes 44% of the total time to agricultural subjects.
1.07      Two Government Agricultural Institutes, at Pyinmana and Thaton,
each train 100 students per year in a 3-year agricultural diploma program.
Applicants for the course, who are selected by the Ministry of Education,
must have completed grade 10 of secondary school; graduates of agricultural
high schools are considered on an equal basis with other applicants. The
course is highly theoretical and science oriented and lacks a practical
orientation. Graduates receive a Diploma in Agriculture and are eligible
for employment by the Agricultural Corporation as extension agents at the
level of Deputy Township Manager. The top 25 to 30 graduates from the
institutes may, depending upon an entrance examination, enter the 3rd year
of degree studies at the Institute of Agriculture.
Training of Veterinary Surgeons
1.08      One hundred and fifty students each year are enrolled in a 6-year
Bachelor of Veterinary Science program at the Institute of Animal Husbandry
and Veterinary Science (IAHVS) at Insein, near Rangoon. IAVHS is a faculty
of the Univeristy of Rangoon and is responsible to the Ministry of Education.
The present output of about 80 graduates a year is expected to grow to about
120, with improvements in teaching quality, better facilities and relocation
of the school at Yezin in 1975. Sufficient numbers of qualified applicants
are readily available and stringent selection for admission is possible.
There has been a recent change in the emphasis of the curriculum from a
rather theoretical, clinical approach to one of preventive medicine and
livestock production, but this change has been difficult to put into
practice as the teaching staff are inadequately trained in a more practical
approach. The Dean of the Faculty is firmly committed to changing the
orientation of the training program.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
1.09      The IAHVS is now organized in departments of veterinary anatomy,
physiology, microbiology, surgery, medicine, pharmacology, parasitology
and pathology and animal husbandry. It offers a single, fixed, non-
elective 6-year curriculum leading to a Bachelor of Veterinary Science
degree (BVS). The curriculum is divided into four parts each with a
qualifying examination for admission to the next part, as follows:
Curriculum for Bachelor of Veterinary Science
Duration: 6 Academic Years.
First Part                                Second Part
1 + 2-3 Years                              1 + 2-3 Years
English                                   Animal Husbandry
Burmese                                   Veterinary Anatomy
Chemistry                                 Histology and Embryology
Physics                                   Physiology
Biology                                   Biochemistry
Mathematics                               Pharmacology
Third Part                                Fourth Part
1 Year                                 1 + 2-3 Years
Pharmacology & Therapeutics               Veterinary Obstetrics
Microbiology                              Veterinary Public Health
and Jurisprudence
Pathology                                 Veterinary Medicine
Parasitology                              Veterinary Surgery
Animal Husbandry                          Animal Husbandry
1.10      The demand for veterinary graduates is very much below the output
of the IAHVS and the present surplus of graduates presents a major planning
problem for the Faculty, a problem which has, as yet, to receive adequate
attention. IAHVS has an academic staff of 39, mainly young univeristy
graduates with little or no field experience. Only three staff have post-
graduate qualifications; five others are studying abroad for post-graduate
degrees. The student:staff ratio is 20:1, which is unreasonably high.
To reach a satisfactory student:staff ratio of less than 10:1, the present
staff would require to be increased to over 70. With existing staff already
deficient in field experience, the early addition of 30 more similarly
inexperienced young graduates is a worrying proposition. An alternative
approach would be to reduce student numbers and concentrate on improved
quality. Using norms proposed by veterinary educators 1/ estimates of the
1/   According to the Second FAO/WRO International Meeting on Veterinary
Education (1965), a first target for a developing country should be
1 veterinarian to 30,000 livestock units, assessed as: equines 1.0
unit each animal, buffalo and dairy cattle 1.0, beef cattle 0.5 to 0.1,
goats 0.5 to 0.1, pigs 0.4 to 0.2 poultry 0.01.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
number of veterinary graduates needed in Burma approximate 400. A reduction
in the number of graduates would appear to be compatible with the size of
the livestock population and with employment possibilities.
1.11      The Veterinary Training Institute (VTI), also located in Insein,
provides a 2-year certificate course for veterinary assistants. It is run
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. Present enrolment is 180, with
an annual output of 80 to 90. There are 6 graduate and 15 technical staff.
Shortage of boarding accommodation limits increased enrolment and the
Institute is deficient in laboratory supplies, equipment, teaching aids etc.
Its training program is strongly orientated towards theoretical and clinical
aspects of veterinary medicine and lacks adequate practical training. With
the transfer of the IAHVS to Yezin, an expansion of the VTI at Insein is
envisaged by Government. This expansion is planned to be both in student
numbers and in the length of the course; a three year training program is
proposed. As with the IAHVS, there is a need to review the content, length,
and quantitative output of the VTI course. If 400 veterinary graduates are
considered an optimal number for Burma, some 1,500 to 2,000 veterinary
assistants are the number that might usefully be employed. This figure
implies an output of 50 to 70 veterinary assistants a year as sufficient
for national purposes.
The New Complex at Yezin
1.12      Government has decided to establish a new agricultural complex
at Yezin, near Pyinmana on the Rangoon/Mandalay road and rail trunk route,
about 240 mi north of Rangoon and 180 mi south of Mandalay. The complex will
contain all of Burma's university level education in agriculture, animal
husbandry, veterinary science and forestry and will also be the main center
of research in these disciplines. Construction work is well under way and
the transfer of the agricultural institute from Mandalay to Yezin has been
initiated. Funds for the building of teaching facilities and boarding accom-
modation for the Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science have
also been allocated and the start of the relocation of the IAHVS is scheduled
for 1975 1/.
1.13      The structure and administration of the complex at Yezin has yet
to be defined by Government. It is apparently intended that the IAHVS and
the Institutes of Agriculture and Forestry will retain academic autonomy
1/   Funds for equipment, technical assistance, personnel and fellowship
training to support the removal of the Institute of Agriculture to Yezin
have already been allocated amounting to US$909,000 (starting date
July 1, 1973) under UNDP Project BUR:71/521; also US$1,424,000 (starting
date January 1, 1974) for the strengthening of the Agricultural Research
Institute at Yezin under UNDP Project BUR:72/003.  For the establishment
of a Forest Research Institute at Yezin US$710,000 (starting date
January 1, 1974) has been allocated under UNDP Project BUR:72/004.



ANNEX 7
Page 5
and a large degree of administrative freedom and individual budgeting with-
in a somewhat loose university framework, under the overall supervision of
the Director-General of Higher Education. The agriculture, livestock and
forestry research institutes, which are planned at Yezin, will remain within
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, with loose associations to the
university institutes. Further definition of responsibilities and lines
of authority is necessary, especially in those departments directly
concerned with common teaching programs of more than one institute, for
example, animal husbandry and basic science.
Constraints in Education and Trainin8
1.14      An important reason for lower than optimal animal production in
Burma is the insufficiency and ineffective use of personnel at the field
level. Poor training and inadequate supervision are principally responsi-
ble. Additionally, inadequacy of applied research and of the centralized
collection and generalization of field results prevent technical advances
from readily occurring.
1.15      Under the project an attempt would be made to upgrade manpower
training and research in the animal production industry.
1.16      Investment in manpower training would be provided at three levels:
(a)  fellowships would be provided for teaching and research
staff to study overseas in animal production and preventive
medicine;
(b)  training of undergraduates would be improved by
strengthening the IAHVS through technical assistance
and the provision of teaching equipment;
(c)  training of veterinary assistants would be improved by
providing teaching equipment to the VTI and by assisting
the Director to restructure the 2-year course into a
more practical training program.
The Project Proposal
1.17      In the first three months of the project, or sooner, a consultant
or consultants in veterinary and animal production education would carefully
review current teaching and training programs in the livestock sector and
propose to Government an overall plan for livestock education. Subject to
the findings of this consultant, and to concurrence between Government and
IDA on acceptance of his proposals, the project would provide:



ANNEX 7
Page 6
(a) Fellowships for teaching and research staff of IAHVS and
VTI to the extent of 15 man-years at K 65,000 per man-year -
K 975,000;
(b) Teaching equipment including laboratory apparatus, chemicals,
media and stains, and surgical instruments for VTI and IAHVS
to the extent of K 975,000;
(c) Books and periodicals for library purposes - K 195,000;
(d) Construction of new teaching and boarding facilities -
K 2,650,000;
(e) Provision of consultant staff to strengthen teaching
programs; 10 man-years K 260,000 per man-year.
1.18      Details of phasing and cost summaries are in Table 1.



BURMKA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Education and Training
Cost Estimates
(February 1975 prices)
Per cert
Uni t       Year         Year         Year                       Foreign
Units        Cost           1            2            3         Total         Exchange
Ti;ts) -    --- (thousand Kyats)--------------------
1. Facilities and Materials
Civi 1 Works                        -               1,050        1,600           -          2,650            24
Training Aids, Eqipment      -                        195          390          390           975            90
Library Text Books           -                          65          65           65           195            90
1,310       2,055          455         3,820            44
2. Training and Consultants
Overseas Fellowships         15          65,000        195         390          390           975           100
Consultant  Services  10 man years    260,0o0          520       1.0140       1,040         2,600           100
Subtotal                                     715        1,,430       1-4.30        3,575          100
Total                                              2,0 '5      3,485         #885         7,395            71
Iptuesn              f  1/                                282         516          373         1,171             -
GRAND TOTAL                                       2,307        4,001        2 258         8 566            61
1/ Construction materials 30%; equipment (average) 30%; consultants
services 25%; and 4% customs handling on all imported goods.
CDX
February 26,1975



BURtA
LIVSSTOCK liDJFCT
Su_arised Pro"et Cost Metmtaa V
(Based on  ebrnary 1975 prices)
Year 1                     Year 2                      Year 3                      Tear 4                       Total
Prert
Local   Freign             Local  Foreign              Loeal   Foreign             local   Foreign             Local    Foreign              Foreign
Cost    Cost       Total   Cost    Coat       Total   Coat    Ccot        Total   Ccet    Coat        Total   Cost       C.et      Total    3wa
Ita                 ~~~~~~-----,--- ---- -- -------------------------------------------------(t_housa_nic 6 at )---- ------------------_________-- _____________--
1. Veterinary  AI and
ctension wo rk ies.   _                             1,418                      1,418                                                                                2,836        20
Tran portation lliiIpnat                            102784                     1oa4                                                                                 2,028        95
Other E*ipmnt                                                                                                                                                         55         94
Incrani'tal. Recurrent
IEpenditures (two Year.)                           2,958                      6,054                                                                                9,012        63
Staff and Training                                  1,026                      1,728                                                                                2,754         -
Total                       i!99   39            ,94   5,135   5,357    10,492        -       -          -        -       -          -     8,434    8,752    17,186          So
2. Vaccine Production
2 euipoent                                         1,300                       1,300                         650                                                    3,250        90
Conaultants and Training          -299   1.1.69   ___                                           __           15___                                        7__        91;799
Total             a130  1,                4 69            130   1,62      5 ,       6 5       780 -                                           325    3,874 n                 92
3. Pasture Development                                                                                                                                                   1,900        1
Fasm Improvenents                                     166                        2I9 dl29                                                                                        42
Current Inputs                                        166~~ -,                                               LL1~*~TY103  1  35                                       8  ,29     423
Total           4      2 1           __; 546631   ld                                1,053     312 1,365- -,105                                                  2,729        23
4. Water SuPP1i                                             1                          158                        191                                                       396       29
Village Reservoirs                        4-                                     140_                        1691                                                     396        57
Shallow Wells                                                                            -                 .140....6          -          -                 -
Total      13                           37         90     174     12          4 29b   210                34                        - -  -      4 37 309           7642
5. Livestock Develoent
Cattle breaeing:                                      232                        262                          89                                                      583        39
Fa  impok                                          282                        282                           -                                                      564        34
Woent and _terials                                6                                                                                                              -            712
Subtlotal                   -'ga 7             119       1        T~         5~*~                                                                     __M---  *1  **7 T~     52
Pig Production,
Animal Pens                                      128                                                                                                              128
Livestock                                        124                                                                                                              1241
Izuipment and materials   ____ _   _2_ _          3
Subtotal                     316      17          T                                                                                        _7- --  1!  -I                   36
Poultry Production:                                  125                                                                                                              125        35
Poultry houaea                                    10                                                                                                              125        35
ChickB                                            10                          22                                                                                   32        84.
Equipment and materials               -          1412                         8                            _                                                      201       42
Subtotal                     TZ     -131      '-03                                                                                                    1 -       7 5        143
Dair-y IJevelopmnent:
Farm  Development:                               136                          97                         28                                                       261       24
Livestock                                         80                          80)                         40                                                      200        -
Equipment arid  terials                          112                          23                          9                                                      1244       72
Subtotal                    219      ]0         32S   1 60   4 0    2 00 6            1                 77      -       -          -        440    1        6     C        27
LD?L's Research Facility:
Civil works and utilities                        677                        717                                                                                1,394        16
3quipment and materials                           99                        186                          90                                                      375        82
Staff, eonsultants,trsining                      188                        712                         582     _                                              1 482        77
Subtotal                   -F     3 2       0 *9M       768 847  1,615              163     509        672                              _1,567   1,68         3,2          52
Total (Item 5)         1,752   1,507       3,259   1,395   1,100      2,495      322     566        888     -        -          -     3,469    3,173       6,642        48
Tota' Items I - 5         3, 655   6,533    12,188   7,465   8,393    15,858   1,650   1,806         3,456      _       _          _    14,770   16,732    31,502
i/ Jetalled cost estismtat  for Item 1 to 7 are contained in Annexes 2 to 7, including details on                                                                                   ; 
import duties and tax6e.



b3RMA
LIVSTOCK PROJA2T
Sunmarized Pro ject Cost Estimates -
(Based on Febrary 197  prices)
Year 1                    Year 2                     Year 3                       a r I                     Total             Psocent
Local   Foreign           Local   Foreign    -       Loc al  Forei gn          Local  Fordgfl             Loca.l   Fordgn              FordLgo
Cost   Cost       Total  Cost   Cost         Total   Coot   Cost       Total   Cost   Cost        Total   Cost      Cost      Total    Exchangs
----------------------------------_-------------(thousand Kyats)---- i   -----------------------------------------------
Brought fo       5.655    6,533   12,188   7,465   8,393    15,858   1,650   1,806       3,456    -         _              14,770   16,732    31,502
6. Afxralsn
lkngoon Milk Processing
Plant:                                              1')                                                                                                         10        -
Site preparation                                581                       76                         598                          -                       1,965       35
Utilities                                         -                       300                        655                        105                       1,060       86
Machinery and equipment                           30                       900                     2,135                        300                       3,365       89
Transportation equipment                        197                        90                        272                        340                         899       95
Plant organisatim o,                            920                        70    ___ ___ 130__                                  6                 __    390           2
consultants, engineering     -                                         1130120    11                                                  3,70307,516f,9209              66
Subtotal (Construction)      92       509    1,7               1,873   3,146    1362 3,    626
Trainingtandwoing              60        _       60       10        -      10       10         -      10      280         _     280      360          -     360
Total 511k Plant          gag      609    1,798   1,263    1,873   3,156    1,374    3,626   5,000        417    1,208   1,625    4,063      7,516  11,579        63
Govmerant  DiLirr Farm:
oro DairyeFnts                                  472               -       565                       252                          -                       1,289        26
Pasture establishment                            40    -40                                           22                                                     102        -
Livestock                                       160                       160                        80                                                    400         -
&3oipment and materials                         356                      138                        125                                  __ 1,-  619                  74
Subtotal                    610-     T!a9  1Th02    -9          23       90-3     335      I"J~    479       -        -                           796   20           33
Total Dairy
Development           1,599    1,227    2,826   1,952    2,107   4,059    1,709    3,770   5,479        417    1,208   1,625    5,677       8,312  13,989        59
7. Eklacation and Training
Civil works                                       1,050                    1,600                           _                         -                        2,650       24
&Euipment, training
aids, books                                        260                      455                        455                                                  1,170        90
Training and consultants                            _1                     1 430                      1                                    2433_5,63                     100
Total                   8214    1,201    2,025   1,262    2,223 46E1         "-      1,839   1,885         - _         _         2,132               1
Total Itere  1 - 7. 1/         8,078    8,961   17,039  10,679   12,723  23,402    3,405    7,415  10,820         417    1,208   1,625   22,579    33,307  52,886         57
Physical Contingencies .            345      151      196     431      295      726      128      361     489        25      107     132       929       914   1,843        50
Import Dirties and Taxes          2,274        -    2,224   2,753      _     2,753    1.550         -   1.550       318        _     318    6,845          -   6.845         -
Subtotal                     10,647    9,112   19,759  13,863   13,018  26,881    5,083    7,776  12,859        760    1,315   2,075   30,353    31,221  61,574          51
3/
Price  3orke                       711       292    1,003   1,513      628   2,141       655      279     934        54       23      77    2,933      1,222   4,155        29
Equipment and other
items                         1404    1,465    2,869   2,916    3.167   6.103    2028    2,197   4,225          462       510     972    6,81O      7 359  14 169        52
Subtotal                      2,j15         1,757     3,872    4,429     315 t9 8   237    2,476   5,159        516       533   1,049    9,743    -,5dl I                47
GRAND TOTAL                  12,762   10,869   23,631  18,292   16,633  35.125    7,766   10,252  18,018    1,276    1,848   3,124   40,09         39,802  79,898        50
US$ (thousand) Equivalent
(6.24)                         2,045    1,742    3,787   2,931    2,698   5,629    1,245    1,643   2,866        205       296     501    6,426     6,379  12,805        50
Percent of Total                      16        14       30      23       21      44         9       13      22         2        2       4       50         50     100
1/  Detailed cost estimates for Items 1  to 7 are contained in Annexes 2 to 7, including details on import duties and taxes.
2/  Physical contingencies have been included for civil works (10%) of Items 1,  5,  6 and 7;  for utilities (5%) of Items 5  and 6;
for dairying machinery and equipment (15%) of Ites 6. and for consultants and engineering services (5%) of Item 6. (Rangoon dairy plant).
,   Price contingencies have been based on revised CPS data (December 27, 1974) as follows, Civil Works - 1975, 16%; 1976 14%; and 1977-79,
12%; all other cost items: 1975 20%; 1976, 10%; and 1977-79, 8%. It has been assumed that the January 1975 devaluation of the EDat wuld
add aorotner 2  *o the ;om, e   ir 1,iati- rate in, Lha year, it he  -.  1,.en msased that calendar year 1976 wou  be nroject Tear 1.
Febrmary 26, 1975                                                                                                                                                              KwA



BURMA
LIV&IOCK PROJECT
Proposed Financi
(thousand Kyats)
Year           Year           Year           Year
1              2              3              4             b Lal
Project Cost (Annex b)                                                   23,631         35,125        ld,Old           3,124         79,o9c
IDA Contributionl/
Consultancy, overseas training                                  1,590          3,028          3,008            848          8,471
Transport and otkier eqaipn ntL/                                3,174          3,354           894              -           7,422
Imported livestock                                                244            147             -              -             391
Milk plant, building and equipment                              1,490          3,498         6,274          1,150          12,512
Medicine, semen                                                 2,940          6,423           208              -           9,571
Teaching and bcarding facilities                               1,382           2,440           563             -            4,385
Construction of veterisrary posts                              1,530           1,727            -               -           3,257
Wlater Development                                                 81            306           398             -              788
Total IDA Contribution                                      ,43          20, 21119
GQv rrinent contri butions_/
to LDMC loans                                                      2,712           4,341         5,253            856         13,165
grants                                                     1,208          1,790            511             -           3,509
to 114HVS grants                                                   6,638           6,896           238             _          13,772
to Ministry of Education grants                                       639          1,172           571             -            2,382
Wgorking Capital Mllk Plant                                            -              -             -              270            270
Total Government Contribution                                  11,197          14,202         6,573          1,126         33,098
Percentage shares  I1A                                                       16              26            14              2             58
Goverrnment                                              lb             l8             8               2             42
1/  Including contingencies
7/  Excludiing tractors
3/  Including contingencies and import taxes ana duties
February 27, 1975



ANNEX 10
Table 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PRDJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(thousand US dollars)
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End                          Disbursement 1/
In Quarter               Cumulative
FY 1976
Junea/                                       100                       100
FY 1977
September                                    300                       400
December                                     300                       700
March                                        400                    1,100
June                                         500                     1,600
FY 197d
September                                    4o0o                    2,000
- December                                 1,200                     3,200
March                                      1,300                     4,500
June                                          00                     5,000
FY 1979                                         40                     5,400
September                                    600                     6,ooo
December                                     4.00                    6,4~00
March                                        300                     6,700
June                                         100                     6,800
FY 1980
September                                    200                     7,000
December                                     100                     7,100
March                                        100                     7,200
June                                         100                     7,300
FY 1981
September                                    100                     7,400
December 3/                                  100                     7,500
1/  Calculated from Annexes  8 and 9 assuming a 2-3 quarter delay after expenditure
2/ Estimated date of effectiveness April 1, 1976
3/ Estimated closing date December 31, 1900
February 26,1975



ANNEX 11
GUIDELINES
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Guidelines for LDMC Audit
1.01      The auditor should submit both short-form and long-form reports.
1.02      These reports should be addressed to the Chairman of the Livestock
Project Policy Committee and not to any member of the management, though a
copy should be sent to the managing director, LDMC.
1.03      The following is an example short-form report:
"We have examined the balance sheet of LDMC as of (financial
year end) and the profit and loss account and related state-
ments for the year then ended.
Our examination was made in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such
tests of the accounting records, verification of assets and
liabilities, and such other auditing procedures as we con-
sidered necessary in the circumstances.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements
and appended notes present fairly the financial position
of LDMC at (financial year end) and the results of its
operations for the year then ended, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles, applied on a
basis consistent in all material respects with that of
the previous year.
1.04      When a qualified opinion is offered by the auditor, the opinion
paragraph of a short-form report should be modified in such a way as to
make clear the nature of the qualification. It should refer specifically
to the subject of the qualification and to the effect on the financial
position and results of operations, if reasonably determinable.
1.05      Generally accepted auditing standards include, in addition to
adherence to accounting principles which are generally accepted, standards
of preparation, standards of field records, standards of supervision, re-
view, reporting and disclosure. The scope of the auditor's examination
should be sufficient to enable him to express the opinion described above.
All of these standards are well-known to qualified public accountants.



ANNEX 11
GUIDELINES
Page 2
1.06      If, in any circumstance, generally accepted auditing standards
cannot be followed, the auditor should expressly state so, indicating speci-
fically the circumstance involved. Where there is a failure to observe
these standards, the auditor should refrain from offering an overall opin-
ion of the financial statements submitted.
1.07      Verification of assets and liabilities should include:
(a) cash and bank balances;
(b) a summary of property, plant and equipment by major
classification, distinguishing between assets in service
and work in progress and showing changes during the year;
(c) inventories;
(d) a summary of depreciation provisions for major classifica-
tions of fixed assets, showing changes during the year, and
supplying details as to methods and rates of depreciation;
(e) an analysis of loans made under the project classified by
location and by size of loans, showing changes in the
amounts of such loans (opening balance, advances, repay-
ments, extensions and closing balance) and appropriately
analyzing loans on which interest payments are overdue or
defaults in principal repayment have occurred;
(f) a summary analysis of accounts receivable and payable,
classified by age;
(g) details of changes in capital accounts (sources of
financing) and reserves during the year; and
(h) receipts and expenditures for technical services.
Verification should also include physical and test checks; examination of
records of expenditure; obtaining of certificates independently from banks
(and other custodians of assets), contractors, suppliers, and other debtors
and creditors.
1.08      The report should include comments, if any, deemed appropriate by
the auditor with respect to any material deficiencies or inadequacies in the
organization's accounts or accounting system and recommendations for improving
accounting procedures.
1.09      The long-form report is an extension of the short-form report.
Appropriate details (analyses, summaries, explanations and comments) of
items in the various certified financial statements should be included in
the long-form report.



ANNEX 1 1
GUIDELINES
Page 3
1.10      Certified statements would include:
(a) a balance sheet for the whole LDMC operation (project and
non-project);
(b) profit and loss account (income and expenditure statement)
for the whole LDMC operation and, separately for the project;
(c) profit and loss (income and expenditure) statement for each
major unit contributing a material part, say more than 20%
of LDMC revenue or incurring more than say, 20% of costs,
or such other criteria as the auditor shall determine;
(d) summarized profit and loss (income and expenditure) for the
project; and
(e) sources and applications of funds.
All statements should, when practicable, show comparative figures for the
preceding years.
1.11      Comments and recommendations in the long-form report would include.
(a) implementation of recommendations made in previous years;
(b) management organization;
(c) budgetary control;
(d)  financial and field controls;
(e) payroll, procurement and sales procedures;
(f) inventory control and stock levels;
(g) adherence to public accounting standards;
(h) efficacy of the internal audit procedures; and
(i) events after the date of the balance sheet significantly
affecting the financial position of LDMC.
March 3, 1975



BURMA
LIVESIOCK PPDJECT
LDMC: Investment Projections
(thousand Kyats)
Foreign
Year after establishment of LDNC          Year         Year         Year         Year                  Total             Exchange
___           _______                    1            2            3           4
LDC's Fam Devel2pment (Annex 5)           2,295          880          216         -                     3,391               44
Research V17                          964        1,615          672        -.21                             
Sub total                      3,259                                   -6,642                                    47
Pasture Development (Annex 3,Tb.l) 1/       546          818        1,365          -                    2,729               23
'Water Development (Annex 4, Th.l) 2/         90         298          358          -                      746               42
Milk Plant (Annex 6, Tb.l)                1,788        3,156        5,000        1,625                11,569                65
airy Farms                               1,028          903          479          -                   2.410                33
Total excluding contingencies
and Import Duties  & laxes        6,711       7,670        8,090        1,625                 24,096                51
Import Duties and Taxes               662          759       1 005           295                 2  21                 -
Sub total                       7,373            9                    1,920                  i7                   46
Physical contingenries                249          424          528          132                 1,333                62
Price contingencies                 1.477        3,350        3,992       1.042                  9.861                47
Total                          9,099      12,203       13,615        3,094                 38,011                47
of which grant               2,094       3,887        3,668          -                    9,649                37
V/ Grants
February 27, 1975



BURMA
IJVESO CK PE1 JECT
LDMC: Pro jected Income Statement
( th ousand Kyats )
Year after establishment of LDlC
Year   Tear    Year   Year   Year    Year   Year   Year    Year   Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year   Year
1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8       9      10      11       12      13       14      15      16
Revenue
Milk 1/                           367     825   1,296   9,590  21,830  32.500  32,500
Animal and animal products 2/    900   1,704   2,193   2,436   2,567   2,626   2,769
A.I. and concentrate feed          20      60     100      150     310     450      450
subtotal             1,267   2,509   3,509  12,176  24,707  35,576  35,719
O(eti.z  Goat  /
LDM  headquarter ove heads         81     107     152      200     224     250      250
LDC farm operatimons              767   1,347   1,772   1,843   1,851   1,861   1,861
Mil.k plant                       380     560     570   7,920  17,420  26,530  26,530
Dairy farms                       109     341     516      543     543     543      543
Subtotal             1,337   2,355   3,010  10,506  20,038  29,184  29,184
Operating income-constant 5/      (50)    234     579   1,670   4,669   6,392   6,535   6,535   6,535   6,535   6,535   6,535   6,535   6,535   6,535  6,535
Operating income-current pricesy'(61)   323       874   2,772   8,451  12,400  13,658  14,704  15,815  16,991  18,232  19,605  21,108  22,676  24,376 24,376
Depreciation 7/.!                         27      57       99      99      99       99      99      99       99      99      99       99      99       99     99
Repayment and interest on
bank credit                       -      66        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -     -
Repayment and interest on
working capital                   -       -       -     293                -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -
Interest on Government loan 8/                              - _   _  ---  1,3   2371  60   2,869   2.638   2,185   1,732   1,278     825    jgi22 15 _
Gross income                     (61)    230     817      8()   8,352  10,930  :1.1,99  11,736  13,078  14,707  16.401  18l228  20.184  22.149  24,123 26,080
Inconm  tax 2/                     -       -       -  1,190   4,176   5,465   5,600   5,868   6,539   7.354   8.200   9.114  10.092  11.o04  12,062 13,040 _
Repayment on loan principal                 -      -        -       -   1.316   2.880  4_749   5.331   5.332   5,331   5.332   5.329   4 015   2 449    582
Net income                       (61)    230     817   1,190   4,176   4,149   2,719   1,119   1,208   2,021   2,670   3,782   4,763   7,060   9,612 12,458
Not ineie ci-lative              (61)    169     986   2,176   6,352  10,501  13,220  14,339  15,547  17,568  20,438  24,220  28,983  36,043  45,655 58,113
1/ tlp to year 3 incremental milk production of LDC's and dairy  farms at        6/ Conversion fro  constant 1975 to current prices at average rates:
farm gate price, after year 3 output of milk ex plant.                           1975:16%, 1976:13%, 1977-79:10%, 1980 onwards 7%  (the 1975                 '4
2/ Including pre pro ject sales of K877 thousand.                                   inflation rate includes a projected 2% effect of the January,
3/ Including replacement costs.                                                     1975 devaluation of the Kyat.)
b/ Including pre project costs of K531 thousand.                                 7/ Dairy plant building and research buildirgs only @ 3% p.a.
Z/ First year operating deficit to be covered by Bank loan repayable             5/5       ars grace,8A/ interest per annnum, wDorCing capital for milk plant
within 12 months.                                                                UP2 0,000 in year 4 at 8?,Orepayed end year.
2/ 50% on gross income year 1-3 tax free.
March 3, 1975



BURMA
LIVESToCK PROJECT
LDlt: Pro ected Cash Flow
(thousand Kyats)
Year         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year        Year         Y-hr         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year        Year
1            2            3            4                        0            7            d            9            10           111          1213                      14            5j         16
Source of Funds
Grants  /                             2,094         3,887        3,668
Loans                                 7,005         d,31s        9,947        j,u94
Bank loan                                61
Funds from Operati o ns
Operating Surplus (fra,  Th.2)       (61)          230          817       2,380        8,352       10,930       11 119       31,736      13,078       14,707       16,401       18,228       20,185      22,149         24,L?3      26, 80
Less Inoome Tax                        -             -            -       1,190        4,176        _,465        5.6          5.668        6.539       7.354         8,2        ,JjII ,0                 ll.n71, 11,7 a07
Subtotal                          (61)          230          817       1,190        4,176        5,465        5,599        5,d6d       6.S19        7,151        8,201        9,114       10,092      11,075        12,061      2%05
Total Source of Funds                    9,099        12,533       14,432        4,26         4,176       S.4b5        5,599        5,868        6,539        7,353        o,201        9,115       10,092      11,075        12,061      13,050
Use of Funds
Investments               /,437                    11,444       i2,601        2,799
Import taxes and le-ies 2               b62           759        1,005          295
Debt service
Interest                                             -      -                  -                    1,371        2,360        2,669        2,638        2,185       1,732        1,278           825         528           154          25
Amortioati.n                                            _W 1,3                                                  2a8           4,79       A 31          58332   4      .731       5.331          13f9     52           24&2            5..082
Total Use of Funds                       9,099        12,203       13,606        3,094            -       2,687        C,24(        7,618        7,06Q       7,S17        7,0O6        6,610        6,15.       4.44           2,603         607
Aunua  InYlou 3/                              -          230          826        1,190        5,176        2,778          359      (1,750)      (1,530)        (164)       1,118        2.504        3,938       6,632         9,458      12,53
Og-OUlate Irlaw                               -          230        1, 0o        2,2L0       o,422        9,200        9,559        7,809        6,379        6,215        7,353        9,857       13,795      20.427        29,885      42,318
1/ Allocation of gronts,i,rluding contingenies and
import duties and taxes:
Year 1    Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Total
--------- (thousand Kyats) ----------
(a) LDMC researoh (Annex 5)               1,280      2,327    1,075       -       4,690
(b) Water development (Annex 4)             122        447      598       -       1,167
(c) Pasture development (Annex 3)           685      1,113    1.995       -        3 792
Total                           23091        3        6
/  As of year 5 inoluded in operatig statement
<t  Negative inflow in years a, 9 and 10 due  to rapid repayment, will be finanoed out of accuosulotec  iudlol.                                                                                                                                :
Masrh 3, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ON






BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Organization
I
Minister of Agriculture
Project Policy Committee
= LZAMlC                                                                              D;AHVS        ll                                                                  IAHVSl
|(Min. of Education)|
for details tee Annes 12, Chart 2neFldt
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ vaI n                                                                                                 TrA  
In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
HH
World Bank-9493






BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation (LDMC)
Organization Chart
PROJECT POLICY
COMMITTEE
LDMC
MANAGING DIRECTOR
LDMC
GENERAL MANAGER
ADMINISTRATION         H~1NANCIAL
DAIRY DEVELOPMENT       LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT      PASUE V PMENT                          ADINTRATNMANAGE
OFFICE                    OFF CER                                                       OFFICER        I         (UDGET CONTROL!
(ACCOUNTS, PERSONNEL)             TREASURY)
DAIR PLANT
G E N E RAL                                                                                                            |     MANDAA ARGEAR
COLLECTION-EXTENSION        PROCESSINGO       I    MARKETING              .............. ADADMINISTRATION                                       L
MANAGER               MANAGER                 MANAGER                 MANAGER                  FIVE [DC          |               FAE I RANGOON DAIRS FMANLAY DAIRY FARM
MANAGER  (PNL,RECORDS,ACCOUNTS)i  MvIANEAGERS           ANAGER                  MANAGERS                            Man
World B-rk-9331






ANNEX 13
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Technical Assistance Summar
1.01      Adequate implementation of the technical components of the project
would require the use of expatriate consultants, as well as overseas train-
ing for a number of Burmese nationals. About 19 man-years of consultant
staff and 29 man-years of fellowships are considered necessary for project
purposes.
1.02      A livestock specialist, preferably with a background in livestock
economics is required to head the Secretariat of the Project Policy Commit-
tee. He should preferably be a Burmese national, but may require guidance
from an experienced expatriate, possibly financed by UNDP. A TOR for this
post is attached as Appendix 1. Improved veterinary services require about
2 man-years of consultants to provide assistance in vaccine production,
diagnostic techniques and in reproductive disease investigation. Terms
of reference for these posts are to be provided by GOB authorities for IDA
comment, following project effectiveness. The Livestock and Pasture Research
team would be led by an expatriate research officer for about two years. His
TOR are attached as Appendix 2. He would be assisted by about six man-months
of consultancy to resolve specific problems. Dairy plant design and construc-
tion requires 4.8 man-years of consultant time and TORs for consultants for
this work are in Appendix 3. The project input into Livestock Education is
subject to review by an educational consultant who would review overall
livestock training in Burma and prepare a revised program including TOR for
the consultants considered necessary to support stonger training facilities.
A summary of the consultant and training requirements of the project follows:
1.   Consultant Services
Man-years         Cost
(thousand kyats)
Veterinary, AI and Extension Services
(Annex 2)
Production of Biologicals                       1.0             260
Reproductive Diseases                           0.5            160
Diagnostic Procedures                           0.5             160
Livestock and Pasture Research (Annex 5)        2.5             750
Dairy Plant Design and Construction (Annex 6) 4.8             1,250
Livestock and Veterinary Education (Annex 7) 10               2,600



ANNEX 13
Page 2
2.   Fellowship and Local Training
Man-years         Cost
(thousand kyats)
Vaccine Production, Virus Typing
and Diagnostic Services                       7              360
Livestock and Pasture Research                  6               400
Dairy Processing                                1                90
Veterinary Education                           15               975
March 11, 1975



ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Terms of Reference for the Livestock Project Coordinator
Background
1.        GOB proposes to establish a Project Policy Committee under the
Minister of Agriculture to assume overall control and direction of a
proposed livestock project. The functions of this committee would be:
(a) to ensure adherence to accepted technical, financial
and economic standards for activities to be financed
under the project;
(b) to assist project agencies to carry out ICB procurement
procedures;
(c) to submit disbursement applications to IDA on behalf
of GOB;
(d) to identify and resolve problems hindering project imple-
mentation;
(e) to monitor and evaluate project performance;
(f) to prepare a follow-up project.
To carry out these functions the Policy Committee would have a small secre-
tariat headed by a livestock coordinator.
Responsibilities
2.        In the context of the foregoing the livestock coordinator will be
responsible for the staff work required in collecting and assembling such
information as is required with respect to the Committee deliberations and
actions on each of items 1(a) through (f).
Qualifications
3.        The successful applicant would have a good graduate degree in
agriculture or agricultural economics. He would have experience in project
management, in simple accountancy and in livestock development planning.
He should be capable of inspiring confidence and trust as a team leader
and have a good understanding of the Burmese language and political system.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 2
Page   1
Terms of Reference for the Team Leader Livestock and Pasture Research
Background
1.        GOB proposes to strengthen its current livestock and pasture in-
vestigations, particularly in relation to small farm systems of pasture
livestock and crop management that interact to the benefit of both crop
and livestock productivity. The key areas which are to be given priority
in the expanded research service include:
(a) the establishment and management of improved grasses
and legumes;
(b) the integration of cattle and pasture production into
smallholder cropping systems;
(c) stocking rate and grazing management trials on
natural and improved pastures for both beef and dairy
cattle;
(d) supplementary feeding trials, particularly with urea
and protein, for all classes of stock;
(e) breed and crossbreeding performance comparisons -
particularly with cattle and buffalo breeds;
(f) the role of phosphorus supplements in increasing the
fertility and growth rates of cattle and buffalo.
2.        Under the project, ten Livestock Development Centers are to be
established. These farms would provide the basic land and livestock facil-
ities for the expanded research program budgeted at US$745,000 which would
be centered on the main LDC - Hlawga - near Rangoon.
3.        The typical LDC under the project would consist of about 400 ac
on which a cattle herd, a piggery and poultry production unit would be based.
The cattle herd would have 100 draft type breeding cows and 200 head of asso-
ciated stock; Brahman bulls would be introduced to each from abroad. Each
piggery would have an importation of about 18 gilts and one boar to produce
good quality breeding stock for village farmers. The poultry unit would
have about 1,000 layers of the white leghorn breed crossed to Australop
males for the production of hatching eggs. Additionally each farm would
have a central Al facility, a seed production unit and an animal and pas-
ture production advisory center. Four farms would also have a 50 cow dairy
production unit.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 2
Page 2
Responsibilities
4.        Under the overall direction of the Project Policy Committee and
the Managing Director of LDMC, the team leader would be responsible for ini-
tiating and supervising all technical aspects of the livestock and pasture
research program during the two years of his tenure. Including, but not
limiting the generality thereof, he would have the following minimum speci-
fic duties, responsibilities and powers, which he might delegate in whole
a part to assigned technical staff:
(a) advising the LDMC General Manager on major policy
decisions in respect to research programs and the
appointment of staff;
(b) prescribing the duties and responsibilities of the
research staff and training them in all aspects of
livestock research planning and implementation;
(c) provide guidance to LDMC on farm buildings, feeding
arrangements milking practices, hygienic milk pro-
duction, the importation of livestock and semen, the
organization of Al services, pasture and water point
establishment and management, response to fertilizers
and mineral supplements, calf rearing and the integra-
tion of specific technical practices into overall farm
management plans;
(d) assessing production costs of alternative livestock
production practices and of formulating farm management
programs which maximize utilization of farm resources
as well as farm profits.
Qualifications
5.        The successful applicant would have a good post-graduate degree
in a scientific discipline related to animal production and at least five
years post graduate research experience in applied aspects of animal and
pasture production. He would preferably have experience in tropical pas-
ture establishment and background training in biometrics and economics,
with some experience of research problems in the countries of South-east
Asia.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 3
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Milk Production and Processing
Terms of Reference for the Dairy
Processing and Marketing Consulting Firm
1.        The Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation of Burma
(LDMC) requires the services of consultants with expertise in dairy devel-
opment, processing and marketing. The objective is to increase milk pro-
duction in the milkshed around the city of Rangoon, organize milk collection
and provide processing and marketing facilities to supply the city with in-
creased quantities of wholesome milk and other dairy products.
2.        The services would require expertise in various fields spread over
an approximate period of four years. For better coordination, continuity
and overall responsibility it has been decided to award all the services in
a package form to one single consulting firm. The firms invited to offer
these services would be well established internationally in dairy produc-
tion, covering the full range of related techniques. These firms would have
had prior experience in developing countries and would be familiar with the
type of systems and facilities that are workable in developing economies.
3.        Consulting firms should bid for their services stating expected
duration of each phase in man-months, cost per man-month, qualifications
and experience of the expert assigned to each phase and required manpower
support to be furnished by the client. They should also furnish evidence
of prior activity in developing countries in the dairy field. The selected
firm would also be acceptable to IDA. The following would be the scope of
the services required listed in chronological order:
4.        Phase A)  Survey of the City of Rangoon milkshed.  This survey
has two distinct objectives: (i) to establish the optimum location of an
estimated ten extension service centers that would also serve for milk
collection to feed the proposed dairy plant, (ii) to study the Rangoon
dairy market, evaluate its potential and make recommendations for the
optimal product mix for the dairy plant. Typically the survey would
include information on the following:
(a) Quantity and quality of milk flowing daily into
Rangoon, including seasonal variations;



ANNEX 13
Appendix 3
Page 2
(b)  Milk pricing structure, price paid to the producer
and price paid by the consumer, role and influence
of the middlemen;
(c) Approximate number of producers and dairy cows in
the Rangoon milkshed, location of the more important
milk pockets;
(d) Optimum number and proposed location of the exten-
sion service - milk collection centers to service
as large a number as possible of producers and
dairy cows;
(e) Demand projections of the more common dairy products
in the city of Rangoon to serve as basis for deter-
mining an appropriate and profitable product mix for
the new dairy plant;
(f) Processing capacity for each product line including
recommended container or package size for retailing
fluid milk and related products.
The survey would be directed by a dairy marketing expert utilizing sampling
and other techniques with manpower support furnished by LDMC. Estimated
duration of this phase: three months.
5.        Phase B)  Preparation of complete engineering specifications and
tender documents based on the recommendations resulting from the survey;
the specifications and documents would be subject to approval by IDA and
would call for a single contractor to build and equip the plant on a turn-
key basis. Civil works, however, would be carried out by the Burmese Gov-
ernment's Construction Corporation, under the technical supervision of the
consultant. The engineering specifications would allow flexibility for
specialized dairy plant contractors to include in their tenders designs
and solutions proven effective in previous contracts in developing coun-
tries. Typically the specifications would include the following:
(a) Siting of the plant and site preparation,
infrastructure;
(b) Plant capacity and product mix;
(c) Milk collection and testing equipment;
(d) Dairy processing equipment;
(e) Filling and packaging equipment;
(f) Power, steam, water, sewage requirements;



ANNEX 13
Appendix 3
Page 3
(g) Suggested plant layout;
(h) Sanitary standards to be met;
Mi) Civil construction, size and type of buildings,
including chill rooms;
(j) Inside finish of floors, walls and ceilings;
(k) Ventilation, drainage, lighting and amenities;
(1) Pro-forma contract and other terms of agreement;
(m)  Preparation of two final set of documents:  one
for the civil works to be carried out by the
Construction Corporation of Burma and the other
for tendering by international competitive bidding
for the provision and installation of the dairy
equipment and all auxiliary facilities on a
turn-key basis.
The two sets of documents would be submitted to LDMC and IDA for approval
prior to invitation to tender. The specifications would be prepared by an
experienced dairy engineer. Estimated duration of this phase: six months.
6.        Phase C)  Analysis of the bids received and recommendation to
LDMC and IDA on the most appropriate proposal, including legal and tech-
nical advice on the contractual arrangements. Typically the tenders would
be evaluated from the standpoint of total price, adherence to specifica-
tions, quality of equipment, delivery, the bidders record of similar
successful installations elsewhere, its financial health and other legal
and technical aspects. The evaluation would be effected by the author of
the specifications with legal advice for the final preparation of the turn-
key contract to be approved by LDMC and IDA prior to signing. Estimated
duration of this phase: three months.
7.        Phase D)  Supervision of the construction of the plant to assure
the contractors' fulfillment of specifications, witnessing start-up and
trial runs. Typically the consultant dairy engineer would check, inspect,
approve or otherwise supervise the following:
(a) The final construction drawings as prepared by the
Construction Corporation for the civil works and
by the turn-key contractor for the installation
of the dairy equipment, service lines and other
related facilities;



ANNEX 13
Appendix 3
Page 4
(b) The quantity and quality of the construction
materials acquired by the Construction Corpora-
tion for the civil works;
(c) The reinforcings and pouring of concrete for
slabs and columns;
(d) The standard of workmanship in electrical and
piping installations;
(e)  The dairy processing equipment upon arrival to
site, reporting immediately any damage, fault
or deviation from contract;
(f) The final installation of the equipment, com-
pliance with sanitary standards;
(g) The trial runs, the actual versus the rated
capacity of equipment, the quality of the
various dairy products turned out.
The supervisory engineering consultant may not need to be constantly on the
scene, effecting instead sporadic visits with short stays at crucial stages.
Estimated duration of this phase: twenty-four months.
8.        Phase E)  Assisting the Dairy Plan General Manager during the
first year of operation with technical advice in milk transportation, milk
and dairy product processing, quality control and dairy plant maintenance;
also assisting with marketing and costing of dairy products. The consult-
ing firm would provide expertise in dairy plant management and dairy market-
ing. Owing to the comparative simplicity of the operation and the slow rate
of increase of milk procurement the experts would be required initially only
for a period of six months returning again after an interval of three months
for a final three months to assess progress and provide further guidance.
Typically the expert .in dairy plant management would:
(a) Train all plant personnel in their various
functions including sanitary practices;
(b) Demonstrate correct operation of all equipment;
(c) Acquaint processing personnel with dairy products
quality standards.
Typically the expert in dairy marketing would:
(a) Train accounting personnel in milk and dairy
product cost accounting and yield control;



ANNEX 13
Appendix 3
Page 5
(b) Organize and implement the marketing of the fluid
milk and dairy products of the plant in the city
of Rangoon;
(c) Train marketing personnel in recognizing consumer
response and tailor the marketing strategy accord-
ingly.
Estimated duration of this phase: twelve months.
9.        Phase F)  Survey the milkshed and market of the city of Mandalay,
and prepare a feasibility study for the construction of a dairy plant with
extension-milk collection centers on similar lines to these proposed for
Rangoon. Typically this feasibility study would include the following:
(a) A survey of the production potential with
crossbreeding, of the milkshed around the
city of Mandalay and projected urban demand
of fluid milk and other dairy products such
as butter and ghee, condensed milk, yogurt,
cheese, ice cream, etc.;
(b) Determination of parameters related to plant
capacity, product mix, number of extension
service - milk collection centers, and their
optimal location;
(c) Investment estimates for extension services,
milk collection, processing plant and marketing
facilities; determination of operating cost and
sales revenues projected over five years and
computation of return on investment;
(d) An analysis of government policies toward dairy
production and the actual possibilities of estab-
lishing a realistic price structure that could
compete for raw milk supplies with the numerous
milk condensing plants (about 150) existing in
the Mandalay region.
The study would be conducted by a dairy marketing specialist with assis-
tance from a dairy engineer and support staff furnished by LDMC. Estimated
duration of this phase: three months.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Marketing of Project Output
A.  General
The Milk Market in Rangoon
1.01      Milk in Burma is consumed mairnly as a complement to tea; direct
consumption is very limited. The distribution of milk in Rangoon, the prin-
cipal market in Burma, is carried out through numerous middlemen. Milk con-
sumption outside urban areas is not recorded, but is believed slight. Milk
produced and processed under the project would be sold principally on che
Rangoon market 1/.
1.02      The present milk supply in Rangoon is based on:
(a) 50,000 1/day of more or less adulterated fresh cow and
buffalo milk;
(b) condensed milk produced by private or cooperative
condensaries; and
(c) imported milk powder and tianed condensed milk sold
through official outlets and the black market.
Sales of heat treated milk, primarily to the army and hospitals, from a
small Government plant in Rangoon amount to 1,400 1/day. Small amounts of
condensed milk from a Government condensary in Maymyo are consigned almost
exclusively to a government ice cream plant in Rangoon. The estimated
supply pattern for the market is shown in Chart 1.
Supply
1.03      The Rangoon milkshed extends about 50 miles inland, principally
to the north and northwest. Within this milkshed are pockets of intensive
small-scale dairy production, primarily on the slightly elevated areas where
1/   Total milk production in Burma is estimated at 150,000 tons/year which
corresponds to an average per capita availability of 15 grams/day.
Consumption of fluid milk in Rangoon is thought to be about 25 grams/
day.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
forage does not directly compete with paddy cultivation. The production
unit is the smallholder, very rarely with more than 5 ac, frequently land-
less and operating from a rented plot. The fodder base is generally pur-
chased forage and supplementary feed. Dairy herds comprise nondescript
animals; about 90% cattle and 10% local water buffalo. Herds are small
(see Table 1). Production is seasonal and yields are about 700/800 kg per
lactation of eight months.
1.04      About 75% of milk marketed passes through milk collection middle-
men, about 25% is direct sales from the farmer to the city milk market or
to urban consumers. Milk is transported in cans without cooling. Farmers
frequently receive advance payment from middlemen against later milk sales.
Prices paid to producers for this type of milk average about K 1.22/kg for
cow milk and K 1.83/kg for buffalo milk. Prices in the milk market in
Rangoon vary seasonally and with the degree of adulteration, and range
from K 2.14 to K 3.06/kg cow milk and K2.75 to 4.30/kg buffalo milk. Mar-
keting margins for minimal services provided by the trade are high and are
supplemented by large scale adulteration; milk with 30% water added is
quite common. The total daily supply of "fresh milk" to Rangoon averages
about 50,000 kg (= about 50,000 1).
1.05      Condensed milk, primarily produced in open small tubs in the
Mandalay Division, is sold to local traders, transported generally by
rail to Rangoon, and distributed there directly to final consumers. Con-
densaries, by and large, pay around K 1.22/kg raw milk, sell the finished
product, a low-fact condensed milk, at around K 2.75/kg. It is then re-
tailed in Rangoon at K 4.40/kg. The quality, of the product is generally
poor. Surplus butter fat obtained from skimming milk at the condensaries
is generally turned into ghee (butter oil), largely for local village con-
sumption.
1.06      To supplement domestic production, Burma has traditionally im-
ported milk products which, during 1969/73, accounted for more than 20%
of the value of consumer imports though only around 3.3% of the value of
total imports. Because of foreign exchange shortages, imports have been
restricted and although total expenditure remained more or less constant
at K 24 M/year, increasing world market prices reduced quantities, in
whole milk equivalent, from 66,000 tons in 1969 to 14,000 tons in 1973
(Table 2).
1.07      Milk product imports consist primarily of condensed milk and
powdered milk for infants. Distribution is through cooperative shops on
a strict ration basis, namely, one 14 oz tin of condensed milk per four
persons per month and two pounds of infant food per month per child up to
two years of age, the latter issued against doctor's certificate only.
October 1974 prices for these rationed commodities were K 2.20/tin (14 oz)
of condensed milk and K 13 for a tin (2.5 lb) of milk powder; they are
likely to be higher following the January 1975 kyat devaluation.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
Demand
1.08      The metropolitan area of Rangoon has an estimated population of
2.06 M which has been growing at a rate somewhat more than 5% per annum.
Average income per household (six persons), in current terms, has not
increased markedly during the last five years and is around K 380/month
(US$61) 1/. The cost of living in Rangoon has increased substantially in
recent years, due primarily to increases in food costs (Table 3). House-
hold expenditure surveys 2/ show average spending on milk and milk products
to be K 8.77/household/month or somewhat more than 2% of total expenditure,
only K 1.09 was spent on fresh milk. The bulk of milk consumed in Rangoon
is taken with tea and coffee in tea shops. To a lesser extent, milk is
also consumed as ice cream and as an admixture to sweets. Total per capita
milk consumption in Rangoon is estimated at around 750 gms fresh milk/month,
160 gms of domestically produced condensed milk/month and about 100 gns of
imported condensed milk or a total of 1,500 gis whole milk equivalent (cf.
Bangalore, India 6,000 gms/month) 3/.
1.09      As can be seen from Chart 1, tea shops, largely supplied with milk
by local traders, are by far the most important outlet for milk, accountLng
for an estimated 68% of all fresh milk used in Rangoon. There are 850 tea
shops in the city each selling an average of 500 cups of tea a day. Ice
cream and cold drink manufacturers - a total of about 60 - use an estimated
8.% of total supplies and the 70 confectioneries and sweet shops approximately
another 11% of city fresh milk supplies. The relative share of total supply
of condensed milk consumed by these shops is likely to be similar to that
of fresh milk.
1.10      Whatever the actual consumption of milk in the city, it is clearly
very low and below potential demand, which is restricted by availability,
quality, and income/price ratio. There are no data to calculate income or
price elasticities. Based on a 5% population growth, milk demand in Rangoon
will increase by 2,500 to 4,000 1/day during the next ten years. Substitu-
tion of imported condensed milk would require 18.5 tons of fresh milk a day
increasing, due to population growth, by around one ton every year. Table 4
gives a tentative balance of supply and demand for Rangoon over the next ten
1/   A sample survey by the Central Statiscics Organization indicates sn-
come distribution in Rangoon as follows: Monthiy income K 0 - 200;
38,; K 201 -- 400; 42%; and over K 400; 20X.
2/   Central Statistics Organization, 1971.
3/   Estimates of fresh milk consumption are reasonably accurate but refer
to highly diluted milk, i.e., at least 30% wa.er. Estimates of domes-
tically produced condensed milk consumption are based on apparent pro-
duction and ace no more than a rough indication of magnitude.



ANNEX 14
Page 4
years. It can be seen that, even without any increase in per capita consump-
tion, incremental project output will not be able to meet market demand, nor
will it replace imports of condensed milk. This implies that, even under
the most conservative assumption and considering a small but steady increase
in production outside the project, milk produced under the project would find
a ready market.
B. Milk Marketing under the Project
General
1.11      Responsibility for procurement, processing and marketing of milk
in the Rangoon area will rest with the management of the LDMC Rangoon milk-
plant, to be established under the project (see Chart 2, Annex 12).
1.12      The marketing objective of the project is not to reorganize the
milk supply system for Rangoon; rather its aim is to encourage milk produc-
tion and to market the largest possible part of this in parallel with the
existing trade. In the long run, through greater efficiency and particu-
larly better quality of milk sold, the LDMC plant may be able to capture a
commanding share of total supplies. Meantime the increased competition and
example set by the LDMC marketing channel would influence private trade,
improve services rendered and the quality of milk sold; improvements which
would be substantial and attributable to the project, but unquantifiable.
Procurement
1.13      To achieve its market position, LDMC would have to provide incen-
tives to producers to sell milk to the plant, not only in money but also in
improved services. These services would include: veterinary advice, provi-
sion of AI, provision of concentrate feed and minerals, all distributed for
cash rather than credit. Ten milk collection centers, to be established
under the project, would form the basis for dissemination of these services
and for milk procurement to the plant. As incremental milk availability
would be based on a cross breeding program, milk production would not in-
crease significantly until about the fourth year, when the first cross-bred
heifers calve. The collection center services would be operative from the
first year to provide Al for cross breeding.
1.14      To assure product quality, the plant would purchase only good raw
milk and would, from the first day of operation, purchase milk on the basis
of butterfat content. To encourage unadultered milk, prices would have to
be higher than those paid on the traditional market and would be set at
K 1.80/kg (K 3/viss) against an average end-1974 price of K 1.22/kg for
cow's milk. Transport of milk from the collection centers to the plant
would be twice daily with non-refrigerated vehicles to be provided under
the project.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
Product mix
1.15      As shown in Table 4 total incremental production from the project
would not meet total demand for fresh milk nor replace imported condensed
milk. Product mix can thus be kept rather simple, but with possible sea-
sonal variations. The final decision on product mix would be made on the
basis of the market study referred to in Annex 6 para 1.16(a).
Distribution
1.16      The Marketing Manager of the Rangoon plant would be responsible
for organizing the sale of dairy products. Provision has been made under
the project to bottle all fluid and condensed milk. The Marketing Manager
would, however, have the option to promote bulk sales as and when the oppor-
tunity arises.
1.17      Present market prices for raw cow milk, containing 30% water,
range from K 2.14 to K 3.06/kg.  The Rangoon plant would sell quality
pasteurized milk initially at K 3/kg, reducing the price as throughput
builds up, to a projected K 2.70/kg in year 2 and K 2.40/kg by year 3
of operation. Sale prices for other products are projected at:
K/kA
Ghee                  18
Butter                 8
Condensed Milk        12
1.18      The competitive strength of the Rangoon plant would be based on
quality, shelf life and reliability of supply. There is ample evidence
that the trade is quality conscious and no basic problems in marketing
plant output are foreseen.
1.19      Sales would be on a strict cash basis.  During the initial
period, customers would be primarily large tea shops and government agen-
cies some of which are presently supplied with sterilized milk from the
small government plant in Rangoon. This plant, which is old and ineffi-
cient, would be closed down. Milk and milk products would be delivered
to consumers in vehicles provided under the project. Fixed retail outlet
booths, owned by the plant, would be established as required for supplying
milk and dairy products to individual consumers.



ANNEX 14
Table 1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Marketing of Project Output
Dairy Herd Size Distribution in Greater Rangoon
Size of Herd                      Cows                 Buffalo
Number of adult females           % of total herd         % of total herd
1 and 2                        24.7                  19.0
3 and 4                        26.1                  26.2
5 and 6                        18.3                  18.6
7 and 8                        10.8                  12.0
9 and 10                        6.8                   9.4
11 and 12                        4.3                    5.1
13 and 14                        2.4                    2.5
15 and 16                        1.3                    3.3
17 and 18                        o.8                    2.0
19 and 20                        0.9                   0.7
Over 20                          3.1                    1.2
Source: Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry, Dairy
Survey in the Greater Rangoon Area, 1974.
January 24, 1975



BUMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Marketing of Project Output
Import of Milk and YWlk Products
1969          1970           1971          1972            1973
Milk Evaporated          K             63,745        76,104         34,209        29,207         76,714
Cwt             572         4,090            757           256            ng
Milk condensed           K         13,770,553    14,303,362    16,626,771      9,905,692    12,803,487
Cwt         262,361       218,703        215,137        79,961          2,710
Milk cream               K              7,952             -              -              -
Cwt              59              -             -              -             _
Milk for infants
invaltds               K          7,462,777     3,903,134    13,279,033      8,473,855    10,469,063
Cwt          37,924        23,608         70,034        28,484         32,869
Milk cream dried         K            174,412         6,366            210             -          1,363
Cwt             920            42              1              -             9
Milk dried               K          2,653,704     2,671,649         17,385     1,902,372          1,468
Cwt          32,489        28,170             53        10,020              3
Yalted Milk              K            632,820           215         23,257        62,503         68,468
Cut           2,572             1             91            160           193
Tbtal               K        24,765,963    20,960,830    29,980,865    20,373,629    23,420,563
Dairy import cost as
percent of total
import bill.                         3.3           2.69           3.6           3.7            6.2
Dairy import cost as
percent of conumer
goods import bill.                  20.8          12.8           25.0          28.7            n.a.
Total in uhol. milk
equlivalent (excluding
cream) '000 tons                    65.5          52.1           54.8          26.9           14.0
Source: Central Statistical Organization
January 24, 1975
CD
N)



ANNEX 14
Table 3
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Marketing of Project Output
Rangoon: Consumer Price Index (1965 - 100)
General               Food and
-Period                  Index                Beverage
1966-67                121.9                   133.7
1967-68                133.1                   133.7
1968-69                129.9                   141.4
1969-70                123.5                   132.6
1970-71                120.8                   128.8
1971-72                127.5                   140.2
1972-73                152.6                   182.8
1973-74                169.1                   203.6
Source: Central Statistical Organization.
January 24, 1975



ANNEX 14
Table 4
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJE%CT
Marketing of Project Output
Rangoon: Projection of Milk Demand
Incremental                                   Total
fresh milk                       Total        Incremental
requirement   Import             Incremental  Project
Year   Population   per day         Substitution      Demand       Production    Balance
End      ('000)       (tons)           (tons)            (ton          (tons)      (tons)
1974     2,060          -             18.54             18.4h           -         18.54
1975     2,163         2.58           19.47             22.05           -         22.05
1976     2,271         5.28           20.44             25.72           -         25.72
1977     2.384         8.10           21.46             29.56           -         29.56
1978     2,503        11.08           22.53             33.61         9.50        24.11
1979     2,628        14.20           23.65             37.85         22.66       15.19
1980     2,759        17.48           24.83             49.31        35.53         6.78
1981     2,897        20.93           26.07             47.00        36.00        11.00
1982     3,042        2h.55           27.38             51.93        36.oo       15.93
1983     3,19h        28.35           28.75             57.10        36.oo        21.10
1984     3,353        32.33           30.18             62.51        36.oo        26.51
U/  Condensed milk in tons of fresh milk equivalent
incremental and accumulative.
January 24, 1975






BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Rangoon Milk Supply
Production                                              Distribution                                            Retail Outlets
Sales
litresiday
I                                _     _t_
Private Farm ers-  Milk                                 City Milk                   City Milk                   ,Tea Shops                  34,300
Collectors                 Market                       Distributor
Sweet Shops                 5.500
Ice Cream Shops             4,000
Public Institutes           2,000
Goyernment Farm                                         Government                       /                      Private Consumers            4,500
Milk Plant                                                                          50,000
Source Mission Estimates                                                                                                                                                        C)I
H a
World Bank-9485






ANNEX 15
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Effect on Government Budget
1.01      Direct measurable benefits to Government income from project
activities consist of import taxes and duties, sales tax for milk and
milk products from the milk plant and LDMC revenue. Improved draft
animal power would be reflected in higher crop yields, thus benefitting
Government indirectly through higher export tax revenue on rice, a benefit
that cannot be quantified at this stage.
1.02      Present Government policy is to provide all veterinary services,
including medicine and semen, free of charge. In future, however, it is
proposed that farmers will pay for these services. In the event that
Government recovers costs of medicine and semen, after the veterinary services
have been properly established, a favourable cash flow would result from
year 6 (Table 1).



..,.(iOlQ_tt-5 icsnrresi. CaSl  t
(thoes..n Ky.s.3)
Year         Year          a.r         ear          Year         Tear         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year         Year        Thar
2                                                   b 3  0       7            0            9            10           11           12            13          114          15          16
vovernmenc IJ'low (current  aines!)
Import taxes and laciest                        2,224       2,7r        1,309           31o          1136         166          156      168              181          194          208          224           242         260          279         300
Inc.. tax ''rom LDt4C3/                           _            _            _           ,-c,        4,176         4-5        5,boO0    5,d6dw           6,53',       7,354        d,200        9,131,      10,092       11, 074     12,062      13,040
Sales tax from milk plant-L'                                                             697        1,575        2_289       2,454    2.643             2856         3.056        3 280        3,528        3 800        4,03         4.90        4
fotal tax revenue                                   2     ,2 73        ,?d,203                  5,667        7,90    O   6,210    d,o79             9,57.6      10,                604 flj  12,6       1                         15,  ,31d,60
LDMC rat inco.n-                                  (ol)         23o          817         .,40       41,17th       h,l49       2,719    1,119            1,208         2,021        2,070        3,782        4,763        7,060       9,612      12,458
Repayment or loars/
Principal                                                               -                                    1,16         2,ddO     4,749           5,331        5,332        5,331        5,332         5,329        4,015       2,449         82
Intereot                                ,-                                           -                       L            2 .60    2,do9            2,636        2,185        1,732         1,278          82.5         428         154.        25
Total Intlow                                   2,163        2,903        2,322        9,395        9,0093      14,736       lo,1t9   17,.0i           18,753       20,142       21,621        23,258       25,051       26,070    2d,946        31,125
Government Outflow (current values)
Grants Lo OAHVS 7/                            11,292       17,5304       1,306          -
Grants to LcWd//                               2,094        1 dd8        3,666          -
Grants to Ministry oi education 5              3,240        5;,2A        3,097
Loans to LC.Y                                  7,005        8,316        9,947        3,094
Incremental opeS at  gstr-                                    -         15, 685      Id,454       20,122       21,567       23,123   24,900           26,792       28,793       30,905        33,2410      35,797       3d,46,    41,355       d",46d
Incremental operating costs Miniotry
of BducatienU -.                                              7            8            8            9           10           11        11              12           13           14           15            16       _18            19           20
Total Otflow including medicine
and semen                                   23,o31       35,142       33,911       21,556       20,131       21,577       23,134   24,913           26,do4       28,806       33,919        33,255       35,813       38,183    41,374        44,4388
Balance: medicine anm semen free
to farmers                                 (21,460)    (32,159)    (3L,589)    (18,161)    (35,068)           (6,d431)     (6,965)  (7,497)          (0,031)      (0,664)      (9,29d)      (9,997)    (10,762)    (11,613)  (12,428)    (13,363)
Volue of medicine .  _en  21/                                                                                 i 4 -  _  -  l4,414  15,459   16,643   17,906        19,244       20,655       22,216       23,925       25,7)a    27,640        29,720
Balance: medici ne am .....
charged to fencers                         (21,468)    '32,159)    (31,589)    (18,161)    '10 oe6            7. ;73       8, 49l    9.1346          9,855       l',48cO      11,-.7       12,219       11., lo      4,095    15,212          16,357
CUmUlatiVe balaC.n, W,_L.W  AM
ssem. charemi tferserm                     (2) ,h,8)    (9,627)    (65,226)   (119,77)   (117 ,15)   (1,^6,d72)   ()F,'7d) (89,232)               (79,377)    (68,797)    (57,4t0)    (45,221)    (32,0583         (17,963)   (2,751)       3,607
1/  Rate of inflation at: 1975 51%, 1976 13%. 1977-79 lo:, 19os: anc later 7!fO, the 1975 inflation rate includes a projected 28 eaffct of the January 1975 devaluation of the Kyat
7/ Constant values shown in Annex  , after year h assumed continuing at 1(75,000 constant prices
3/ Annex 12, Table 2
7/ Annex e, Table 2
5/ Annex 12,Table 2
6/ Annex 12 Table 3
/  Annex 2, Tables 1 and 4
6/ Annex 5. Table 1
9/ Amx 7, Table 1
22/ Annex 2, Table 1 plus 10% of equipment for vaccine production (Annex 2, .able t).Opsraudnl  costo for year  1 eam  2 ile.l,deb in g-n-o.
11/ Consists: Maintenante of buildings 3% p.a., R 5 M of sqaipeent 5% p.a., library cost X 5,00J p.a.
R/  Current value X7,430 N. Anneo 2 Table 1, no payment diurin years I to L.
Note: The net impact of the I.D.A. credit is not shown
Naerh 3, 1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FE



ANNEX 16
Page   1
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Economic Impact and Economic Rate of Return
1.01      Based on the most probable assumptions, the project's estimated
economic rate of return ROR(E) would be 26%. The project would also have
significant demonstration, training and employment effects and, through
import substitution, would favourably influence Burma's balance of pay-
ments. A substantial unquantifiable benefit would be the external effect
of improved livestock, animal husbandry/pasture management on farmers not
directly participating in the project.
1.02      In determining ROR(E), all costs are included at their financial
value at the beginning of 1975, adjusted for duties and taxes.
Import Substitution
1.03      An important justification for the project is import substitution
of milk. There is no international market price for fresh milk. A possible
measure of price comparison would be the landed value of milk products ex-
pressed in whole milk equivalents. Imports in 1973 were equivalent to
14,000 tons valuediat K 24 M (Annex 14, Table 2) or K 1.71A1 whole milk
equivalent. In January 1975 the Kyat was devalued by 30% (K 4.81-US$1 to
K 6.24-US$1). Applying this rate, the price of imported milk would be
K 2.22/1 whole milk equivalent. The proposed long term retail price for
fluid milk is K 2.40/1 (Annex 6, Table 3) or about 8% more than the cif
price of imported milk, a margin easily accounted for by normal distribution
costs.
1.04      Quantifiable Benefits
Incremental production of cattle resulting from improvements in
water supply, pasture management and veterinary, AI, and extension services,
has been expressed in liveweight gains, multiplied by present prices for
slaughter animals. This measure of benefit does not reflect the qualita-
tive improvement of project animals which would increase their market value.
Incremental production of livestock from LDC has also been calculated on the
basis of current market prices. Milk processed at the plant is valued at
projected ex-factory prices; milk sold from project farms directly to con-
sumers at current farm-gate prices.
1.05      To calculate incremental benefits, it has been assumed that,
without the project, output of Government and private farms would remain
constant. No account has been taken of the likely further quantitative
and qualitative deterioration of the national herd without the project.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
1.06      Unquantifiable benefits
In computing ROR(E) no account has been taken of the very sub-
stantial long term benefits arising from institution building, training
and gathering of information which would enable formulation of future,
larger projects. Even more important, no attempt has been made to qual-
ify and quantify the improvements in farm draft power and their impact
upon paddy cultivation and paddy yields. Estimates are that through more
timely soil preparation, paddy yields could increase by 300/400 lb/ac.
1.07      The project would provide full time employment to about 600 people
in the project area, in addition to the temporary and seasonal employment
that would be created through pasture and water development activities. The
opportunity for increased employment is welcome, particularly in view of the
high level of unemployment in the project area.
1.08      Other benefits include foreign exchange savings through import
substitution and nutritional improvements for large segments of the Rangoon
population through improved milk supplies.
1.09      Economic Rate of Return
Based on these assumptions, the return to the economy would be
quite high, mainly because, with limited input, a substantial latent poten-
tial for livestock production would be mobilized, and already existing Gov-
ernment farms would be brought into more effective production. Performance
would be subject to a number of risks (see para 1.11).
1.10      Sensitivity tests
The economic rates of return of the project, on various alterna-
tive assumptions, are referred to in para 1.11 and summarized in Table 2.
1.11      Risks
There are a number of factors which may adversely affect the eco-
nomic performance of the project:
(a)  Farmer participation in the expanded field service,
and AI performance, might be lower than projected,
resulting in fewer cross-bred animals and affecting
milk yield and improvement of farm draft power; a
10% reduction in participation would reduce ROR(E)        -
by about two points;
(b)  Average milk production per cow might be lower than
forecast due to climate, animal health or management
constraints;



ANNEX 16
Page 3
(c) Retail milk prices, particularly for processed
milk, might be lower than projected; a 10% re-
duction in milk prices would reduce ROR(E) of
the project by about 3 points; however, the
financial rate of return of the milk plant is
sensitive to the margin between buying and selling
prices of milk and, with the purchase prices for
raw milk unchanged, a 10% reduction in retail
prices would reduce ROR(F) of the plant by 15
points to 16%;
(d) Milk sales to the Rangoon plant might be lower than
assumed either because of (b) above or because the
private market proves a stronger competitor than
assumed. (In the latter case project performance
would not be affected, but the benefit from plant
operation would decline);
(e) Input prices, particularly for imported equipment
and vehicles as well as for fuel may be higher than
assumed; a 10% increase in costs would reduce ROR(E)
by about six points;
(f) Organizational and administrative problems might arise.
1.12      The project incorporates the following steps and measures to allow
for or reduce these risks:
(a) The estimated farmer participation in project villages
has been kept at a modest level (50% of total), in
line with the performance of similar projects in other
countries. The proposed moderate extension density of
one VLS per 12 villages, together with the planned
supervision and training of the veterinary field staff
is such that the expected performance should be within
the capacity of individual officers;
(b) The projected lactation per cow is conservative,
1,800 1/per lactation, and less than the expected
average performance in similar projects elsewhere;
(c) Retail prices for milk and milk products are compe-
titive with current charges; a reduction in retail
sales prices without a parallel lowering of producer
prices is unlikely; however, even if sales prices
should fall by 10%, the plant would continue to
operate economically, and economic and social ben-
efits to consumers would increase;



ANNEX 16
Page 4
(d) The proposed producer price for milk to be offered
by the milk plant is competitive with prices paid or
likely to be paid by private traders. In addition the
various services offered by the project Rangoon milk
complex would provide considerable attraction to pro-
ducers and strengthen the plant's competitive position
viz a viz the private trade;
(e) Equipment and vehicle prices take account of recent
increases; it can be expected that increases in gen-
eral price levels for project inputs would be balanced
by corresponding increases in prices for project output;
project cost estimates include substantial provision
for price contingencies;
(f) The proposed project organization is designed to mini-
mize possible administrative problems, while the substan-
tial technical assistance and training input under the
project would help to assure efficient management.
March 11, 1975



LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                           ANNE 16
Table 1
Economic Rate of Return
(thousand 1yats)
Year 1        Year 2        Year 3             4        Yer 5         Year 6        Year 7 - 15
A. Benefits
Milk sales ex plant                    - _                        -           9,590        21,830         32,500           32,500
Milk sales outside plant 28 367                     825         1,296           977         2.986          3,813
Total milk sales                   367          82          10
Livestock and livestock product sales
Impact of A.I. & vet. services /       -            337         4,125        11,303        17,498        20,212           20,572
Impact of pasture development          -            210           735         1,575         2,100         2,100            2,100
Sales on LDC's and dairy farms  2/                   3          162                          1.994        2.053             2,192
Subtotal                           23        1.681         64            7LW          21,592          245            2
Total A                           390        2,506         7,777              86,081
B. Capital Investment
IDNC
Livestock Development 7/             3,267        1,366           541           -
Dairy Plant 8/                       1,738        3,146         4,990         1,345
Water Development 2/                                150           180           -
Subtotal                       5050         4,662         5,711         1               _
Veterinary & Extension Services 10/ 2,710         2,710
Vaccine Production 11/          11   1 300        1.300           650
Subtotal                                      , w010
Operating expenditure
LDMC
Livestock Farms 5/                     346        1,157         1,757         1,855         1,863         1,873              1,873
Milk Plant I/                          380          560           570         7,920        17,420        26,530             26,530
Pasture Development                    547          81          1367            229          2              229                229
Subtotal                       1,273        2,536            94        1512                        20,632
IWS
Veterinary A.I. & Extermion
Services  i                        3,984        7,782         9,958        10,385        10,385        10,385            10,385
Vaccine prodaction 1/                  130          260            25           325           325           325                325
Subtotal                       ,T114 B0                  10,37IO nO                                                  1010
Physical contingencies 1/336                          496           528           132           313           454               454
Total B                       14,783       19,746        20,866        22,191        30,535        39,796            39,796
Balance                      (14,393)     (17,240)      (13,089)        3,117        15,873        20,883            21,386
Estimated Economic Rate of Return 26%
l/ Annex 6, Table 2
2/ Estinated at 25% of incremental small holder pmduction valued at K 1.8/L
/ Annex 2, Table 3
Annex 3, Table 2
Annex 5, Tables 3,5,7,9, and Annex 6, Table 2
i/ Excluding IAHVS component and excluding import duties and taxes
7/ Annex 5, Table 1 and Annex 6, Table 7, excluding LDC research component
/ Armex 6, Table 1
9/ Annex 4, Table 1. OnlY 50% of costs, rest corsidered social benefit.
10/ Annex 2, Table 1
11/ Annex 2, Table 4, but excluding fellowships and oonsultants
2 Annex 6, Table 2
1/ Annex 3, Table 2
Jj/ Iuivalent to 10% of equipment costs
%/ Including 5% on operation costs of dairy plant except raw milk purchases
March 6, 1975



ANNEX 16
Table 2
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJ ET
EconomLc Rate of Return: Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Rate of Return Assuming that
costs are:
unchanged           5%_hier              10% hi gher          15% higher
Unchanged               26                  23                   20                    16
10% lower return on
milk ex planlt       23                 20                   16                    12
20% lower retuin on
milk ex planit       19                 15                   12                     7
10% fewer smallholder
participation        24                 21                   17                    14
10% more smallholder
participation        29                 26                   22                    19



BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MAIN ACTIVITIES                                                         RESPONSIBLE                                      YER1                                                                                     YEAR 2YA3                                                                                  YEAR-I                                                      YEAR 5
LDEVELOPMENT OF VETERINARY ANE) EXTENSION SERVICE                                                            OAHVS1
Selectron  of------e---M--ter-------a------ A-T------                                             -----
ApooMntf Or lcro             S     'I- -----                    ----------                                             -
Esraplrsrmentof-T------------a-----------   --l                                                                  --
Order T-anp-   -nn  OIhr Sopp1I  - ------                               -       --       -     ----            ------
trp     r.roT--q C.nSC -          -----                           ---           -------                --         --
Plann,oSE,eld  Srrwfo,o  snOW--n-------o-q------
AEpornrrrferrf---L-o-e-------c------r-------
Op tao    olo.rg C-         -    -    ----                         ---            -     --        -   ------                -   --
Coer~c,rVVeero~0             --eaV----------                                      ---------om o
De,,rf,fr a- -d         ieerra          -Ir t F,eld EaP,,, -rrosr .-----                         -        -------                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -- -----
VACCINE PROOCTtCION                                                                                          DAHVSV
Planrr,ngProdrcr,rrrr  Pro..gr......m
Co Itforo  Ne-               -----           ----Id---I....     .. ------
P-h-                                                                                                        ---------n    ----rfrfrf
Rerrr4orro--r--------                                                                           ------------------m,.-
Selo,o    rTarO'r-gOonr ,-F low                                                   ---- ----------- ......Fm
PASTUR EDEVELOPMENTM,20005 oct-ICt                                                                                                       
SooorV' ,,dn for P--or rrpr--ernon 13501)-- -----    ---   ------------
S,pol.rSt Past,, V;roolronmeri ottO  Menagamn,tt--------                                                                          -----------------
Vas---                                                                                                                                   ---   -------        --            -------     -     -------
WARTER DEVELOPMENT                                                                                                             -
_  r        1-p-, D .V .....f        -   . Searo oMAF  -------            -------   ---   -I---
LRESEARCH ANDE THE LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT CENTERS                                                  LVMC
Rnor          LDCa-------al...D......
AoosrloTrOttetdEolf-t-------  ----                                      ......-  ....  ...
Irrrpeerrf R..        h   ,g-        ... _L....C....................m....
Irr-hporf,- o-on.......f.....
Dealgoof ReeearoftProarrrt-------------r.----
rrrplerrrOtffaftor                                         ....r.........                       .  .......
RnoorrrnoorderrlomorfPrId.ar.r.....f........                                .....I..       ...-                                             ....  ....
SelenftcfrtCTrtt---------------------t-------                                                                                     -------W---
MILK PROCESSING                                                                                              LDMC
(See Ar-re  6E  Table   ) 
eeR,.,D,,ro onrrlar--...........                                                   ...               .....
Enalua-   Soa                                                                               ...........r........
EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                                                     IROnS -dd
R-nrit-reo   of Cen-alesoe   10 Reoe-   Overall Program .......                                    AR ASm   ...
Ptwert of C-nsttet-t   GOB..........---                                               ...... .-.......
Repor  of' Can-ltnt s-W,ieh GOB Re,,ie-  to IDA-...                             .................
Aqre- -n  of GOB ted IO    ott Potato1  Trainrng Pl-        ---------n------------
P     -niltd Deign af Civ.1 W-,,~----------------                                            -----------
tmpl----alo  of Co~il Work ----......--..._ .I-....   -  .: .......
P-rc1, -of Tr.li-g Aids, Essol, -n   -nd Test Rota-  -------                                  ------    -    -                     --------
Salecel-  and Traie-tt  OverseeFs           1 elos. . .....................                                                     .......                           i-- - 4
World 8aek - 15338






N,               II,~~~, alnanaabylI&
== 2    CJ INDIA                                               ando00
SANGJOAESHjy                                                       I N(
VF;   't                                                              lanrgn i                    Dantoa  t7ti     ~ ~ ~ X    \'  Vmpyedowetndacb 
B  R M A                  NU RA                         I N D I
*        <" |LA&~n                                                   <C H I N A
26-  ~~~~~JA26
JTHA6LAND \                         6           5nAiMod                tTATE                .
)                                         /      n        g  
0   0                                                                                     -Adgy       yoRy >: t  
BURMA                                     j HA
DIR~Thaln                        R      O         AD                   A                         and  a manon i
'C~~~~
a    0 f                                           N
oo     e nJ g a                                                                           KA
|  |  | SINGLETRACK RAILWAYS   , : ~~~~~~rA                                                                                 1
'l                                   PoE al DOUBLE TRACK RAILWAY  S e G
Sang a. D. Cyo .                                                                                                   H A  I L A N  D
......... ...DIIINLBONAIS;  ha i2   
BURMA
LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                                                                                                  1-
PROJECT AREA                                                                                                              BANGKOK
GRAVEL NtOADSTaa                                                                                            ia
DIRT ROADSAn a                                                              ,
SINGLE TRACK RAILWAYS
DOURLTRACK RtAILWAY                                               S   a
MAIN RIVERS                                                                                          _g
R MOUNTAIN RANGES-AND FORESTED AREAS            I
CULTIVATED AREASJr
A,    L. SC. CSITES                                   IGulf
- ' -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                       Ta/n
..........DIVISIONAL ODUNDARIESf
0          100         200          390 ROD
S        SD       lOS        150       200      250 
Miles                                                                                              p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o



