CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 597 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
0
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 30, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 597 BA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 30, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1975, between THE SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Borrower and the Livestock
Development and Marketing Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Livestock
Development and Marketing Corporation part of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01, The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings;
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreemeit" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation


﻿4
pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(b)   "LDMC" means the Livestock Development and Marketing Corporation
of the Borrower established under the laws of the Borrower and shall include any
successor or successors thereto;
(c)   "DAHVS" means the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Science of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests of the Borrower;
(d)   "IAHVS" means the Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Science of the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(e)   "PPC" means the Project Policy Committee referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement; and
(f)   "Project Area" means an area extending from Naung-Cho in the north
to Moulmein in the south and the Chindwin and Irrawaddy rivers in the west
to the Mandalay-Pegu provincial boundaries to the east.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿5
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 198 1 or such later
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1986, and ending November 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Chairman of PPC, or any other person or persons duly
authorized in writing by him, is or are designated as representative or representatives
of the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V
of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A and Part C of the
Project through its DAHVS and IAHVS, respectively, and shall cause LDMC to
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural and livestock
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the u)Lirpose.
(b)   In order to assist LDMC in carrying out revenue producing activities
under Part B of the Project (i.e., B.3, B.4, B.5 and B.7), the Borrower shall relend
to LDMC an amount equivalent to two million five hundred thousand dollars
($2,500,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit under a subsidiary loan agreement


﻿6
satisfactory to the Association. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
such agreement shall provide, inter alia, that LDMC shall pay periodically to the
Borrower amounts representing (i) interest on the amount relent at an annual rate
of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time and (ii) amortization of the principal amount relent
over a term of fifteen years including a grace period of five years (during which
period the interest thereon shall be capitalized), from the date of the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. In addition, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall make available to LDMC an amount equivalent to about nine
hundred thousand dollars ($900,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit in order
to assist LDMC in carrying out non-revenue producing activities under Part B of
the Project (i.e., B.1, B.2 and B.6).
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
make available to DAHVS and IAHVS, in addition to its regular annual budgetary
allocations to each of them, an amount equivalent to about two million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($2,700,000) and about one million four hundred
thousand dollars ($1,400,000), respectively, out of the proceeds of the Credit to
assist them in carrying out Part A and Part C, respectively, of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to supervise and monitor the implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain a Project Policy Committee,
with powers, functions and organization satisfactory to the Association, consisting
inter alios of the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests, as chairman, and
representatives from LDMC, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, the Ministry
of Planning and Finance and the Ministry of Education, as members; and (ii) appoint
a livestock project coordinator, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association, who shall be responsible to lead a small secretariat for PPC.
Section 3.03. (a) In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall
cause DAHVS to employ, not later than six months after the date of this
Agreement: (i) in consultation with the Association, a qualified and experienced
person as its Director of Project Field Services who shall be responsible for an
identifiable group of field personnel; and (ii) consultants, with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, to advise on production of biologicals, control of reproductive
diseases, diagnostic procedures, and any other area determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause LDMC
to employ: (i) not later than six months after the date of this Agreement, a senior
research officer, with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of


﻿7
employment acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, who shall lead a
small group responsible for initiating and supervising all technical aspects of the
livestock and pasture research programs under LDMC, and (ii) research consultants,
with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association, to assist in resolving specific problems
concerning such research programs. The Borrower shall ensure that the Association
shall be given an opportunity to review and comment on the objectives of such
research programs,
(c)   In carrying out Parts B.5 and B.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall,
not later than six months after the date of this Agreement, cause LDMC to employ
consultants, with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, to survey the Rangoon
milkshed for determining the optimal location of the milk collection centers, to
prepare specifications for the milk processing plant on the basis of such survey,
to supervise the construction of such plant and the supply and installation of the
milk processing equipment, to assist in initial operation of such plant, and to
undertake a survey of the milkshed and market of the city of Mandalay.
(d)   In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall cause IAHVS
(i) to furnish to the Association, not later than six months after the date of this
Agreement, the study undertaken by livestock education consultants for the
improvement of the existing training and educational programs in animal health
and livestock technology, and (ii) to employ consultants, with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association, to strengthen such training and educational programs.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project, the Borrower
shall (a) provide and maintain in good working order at least one tractor with
a minimum of 40 HP on each livestock development center and on each of the
two dairy farms to be established under the Project, and (b) prepare, and furnish
to the Association for its comments, a specific development plan for each such
livestock development center and dairy farm.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿8
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence acceptable to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause LDMC to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of LDMC.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause LDMC to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each financial year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; and (ii) submit to the secretariat of PPC a summary of such accounts
and statements as audited.


﻿9
(c)   The Borrower shall cause LDMC to furnish to the Association: (i) as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each financial year, copies, in English translation, of its unaudited accounts; (ii)
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies,
in English translation, of its accounts for such year as audited in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, and (B) the report, in English
translation, of such audit of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) such other information concerning its accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause LDMC to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of LDMC or for the
suspension of its operations, without the previous agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been amended or abrogated
without the previous agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, that any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿10
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and LDMC, respectively, have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b)  PPC referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement has been established;
and
(c)  the Borrower has appointed a livestock project coordinator to lead
the secretariat of PPC, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement has been duly authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and LDMC, respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and LDMC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 31, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 and 4.02
of this Agreement, and the provisions of Sections 5.01 (a) and (b) and Section
5.02 of this Agreement, shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister for Planning and Finance or the Deputy Minister
for Planning and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Ministers' Office Post Office
Rangoon
Burma


﻿*                                11
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association,
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
By /s / U Tin Lat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works
(a)   Construction              1,800,000           80%
of a milk
plant, dairy
farms, research
facilities,
livestock
development
centers, veter-
inary posts
and water
points
(b)   Teaching and               300,000            80%
boarding faci-
lities
(2)  Equipment
(a)   Utilities and            2,100,000            100% of foreign
equipment for                                 expenditures or
dairy plant,                                  80% of local ex-
dairy farms,                                  penditures for
livestock de-                                 imported goods
velopment cen-                                procured locally
ters and a re-
search unit;
and veterinary
and transport
equipment


﻿rF                                          13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b)   Teaching                  150,000            100% of foreign
equipment                                    expenditures or
80% of local ex-
penditures for
imported goods
procured locally
(3)  Agricultural Inputs
Livestock,               1,300,000            100% of foreign
seeds,                                       expenditures or
fertilizer,                                  80% of local ex-
medicines,                                   penditures
vaccines and
semen
O         (4)  Technical Services
(a)   Consultants               750,000            100%
(b)   Overseas                  250,000            100%
fellowships
(5)   Unallocated                     850,000
TOTAL         7,500,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿14
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made (i) in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (4)(a) of said paragraph
1 on account of expenditures incurred, for the employment of livestock education
consultants referred to in Section 3.03(d)(i) of this Agreement, after December 1,
1975 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, or (ii)
in respect of expenditures under Categories (1)(b), (2)(b) and (4)(b), and in respect
of expenditures under Category (4)(a) for the employment of consultants referred
to in Section 3.03(d)(ii) of this Agreement, until the report of the livestock
education consultants referred to in Section 3.03(d)(i) of this Agreement has been
completed and the Borrower and the Association have agreed on an overall program
of veterinary education to be undertaken under the Project.
5.    Notwithstanding   the allocation of an   amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the


﻿15
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Field Services and Vaccine Production
1.    Development of veterinary and livestock extension service.
2.    Increase production of vaccines to combat important animal diseases.
B.    Pasture Improvement, Water Points and Dairy Development
1.   Improvement of about 20,000 acres of communal pasture in about 300
villages accessible to the livestock development centers.
2.    Construction of water points (wells and ponds) in about 50 villages accessible
to the livestock development centers.
3.    Construction and operation of about ten livestock development centers for
the multiplication and supply to farmers of selected breeds of livestock and
pasture seeds, for the extension of artificial insemination services and for
livestock production research.
4.    Establishment of two dairy farms, one near Rangoon and the other at a
suitable location to be determined by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, and four small dairy units on selected livestock development
centers.
5.    Construction and operation, in or near Rangoon, of a milk processing plant
and associated milk collection centers.
6.    Feasibility study for another milk processing plant in or near Mandalay.
7.    Importation of superior breeds of cattle, pigs and poultry and of cattle semen
for the livestock development centers and dairy farms.
C.    Education and Training
Reorganization of current teaching and training programs in the livestock
sector and introduction of an overall plan for livestock education, construction


﻿17
of new teaching and boarding facilities, provision of imported teaching equipment
and  technical literature, and provision of consultants' services and overseas
fellowships for teaching and research staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1981.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a) Milk processing equipment and its installation included in Part B.5 of
the Project shall be procured under a turn-key contract.
(b)   In order to encourage competitive bidding, contracts under the Project
shall be grouped insofar as is practicable.
3.    (a) Contracts for imported livestock and semen included in Part B.7 of the
Project shall be let by inviting quotations from at least three countries to be selected
in agreement with the Association.
(b)   Civil works included in Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project and the
construction of teaching and research buildings included in Part C of the Project
shall be executed by force account of the Borrower.
(c)   Civil works involved in the construction of the milk processing plant
included in Part B.5 of the Project shall be executed by the Construction
Corporation of the Borrower.
(d)   Contracts for equipment, vehicles and services, except for those
described in 2.(a) above, costing less than $50,000 equivalent each shall be procured
under the Government procurement procedures acceptable to the Association,
provided that the aggregate cost of such contracts does not exceed $250,000
equivalent.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids fbr Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i,f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured


﻿19
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Burma may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Burma if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Burma equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Burma.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 157o of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;


﻿20
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if


﻿21
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


