Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5653
r
GUINEA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 953-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
May 15, 1985
West Africa Region
Transportation Division I
This document bs  resricekd distribution nd may be used by recipients only In the perfemnnce of
tbidr offidcal dueL lb eont  my nm a  oterwise be dslosed width    World DBak anherirkadon.



FOR OFFCAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
adt        average daily traffic
BADEA      Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CGR        Provincial level administration with ministerial rank
DGPC       General Directorate of Roads and Bridges
EEC        European Economic Community
EDM        Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
MIGAT      Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works
MTP        Ministry of Public Works
ONAR       National Fuels Office
OPR        Road Project Office
voc        vehicle operating cost
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



GUINEA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 953-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ............ . .................. ................................   i
Basic Data Sheet  ...................-..  *                                  ii
Highlights ...........................                                      iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ...... ... ........... ........ e...o.... ......      1
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .......          1
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST  .....................             4
IV.   INSTITUTIONAL PERPORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT ...............         12
V'.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION ........................... .... . . .      15
VI.   ROLE OF THE BANK .......... ... .... ....... .....                17
VII.   CONCLUSIONS ........................... ,..                       18
ANNEX     Borrowers Compliance with Main Covenants ................         20
TABLES
3.1   Actual and Expected Project Implementation ..............         21
3.2   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project .............         22
3.3   Annual Output of the Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Brigades ........ .  ...........  O*.............  23
3.4   Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs .........         24
3.5   Project Financing .... **. ............... ............... .      25
5.1   Comparisons of Vehicle Operating Costs ..................         26
5.2   Details of Economic Reevaluation ........................         27
MAP       IBRD 14070 (PCR)



GUINEA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 953-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the
Second Highway Project in Guinea for which Crzdit 953-GUI, in the amount of
US$13.0 million, and an ECC Special Action Fund, in various currencies
amounting to US$ 4.0 million equivalent were signed on November 2, 1979.
Credit 953-GUI was fully comitted by December 1983. Processing of payment
requests was delayed by political events following the President's death, so
that a total of US$743,660 remained on the books as undisbursed by July 10,
1984. However, payment requests in the amount of US$412,020 were received in
early July and the balance of US$331,640 should be disbursed by September
1984, 15 months later than estimated at appraisal. The EEC Special Action
Fund allocation was fully disbursed on February 2, 1984, seven months later
than estimated at appraisal. Parallel financing in the amount of USS6.0
million was provided by BADPA.
The PCR was prepared by WAPT1 and is based on Appraisal Report No.
2363-GUI dated August 20, 1979, supervision reports, legal documents, project
correspondence files and consultant progress and draft completion reports.
In accordance with the revised project performance auditing
procedures this PCR was read in the Operations Evaluation Department but the
project was not audited by OED staff. The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower
for comments; however, none were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 953-GUI)
Key Project Data
Actual or
Appraisal      Current
Item                                      Expectation    Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                             28.7            29.5
Underrun or Overrun (Z)                                                    3.0
Credit Amount (US$ million)A
- IDA                                       13.0            13.0
- EEC Special Action Fund                    4.0             4.0
Disbursed                                                                 16.45
Cancelled                                                                  0
Repaid as of April 1984                                                    0
Outstanding as of April 1984                                              16.45
Date Physical Components Completion                          Dec.1982     Dec.1983
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)                                      35
Proportion of Time Underrun or Overrun (X)                                  33
Economtc Rate of Return (X)                                  49.0           25.0
Instttutional Performance                                   Good            Poor
Accumulated Disbursements
(USS million)
Financial Year             1980         1981        1982         1983        1984
IDA   EEC   IDA   EEC   IDA   EEC   IDA   EEC   IDA   EEC
Appraisal Estimate       3.0   3.0   6.8   4.0   11.0  4.0   13.0  4.0   13.0  4.0
Actual                   0.5   0     4.8   2.9   7.2   3.5   12.0  3.9   13.0  4.0
Actual as Percent of    17    0      71    73    65    88    92    97    100   100
Estimate (Z)
1/ BADEA cofinanced the project in the amount of US$6 million equivalent
(parallel financing).



- iii -
Other Project Data
Original                      Actual or
Item                              Plan          Revisions        Est.Actual
First Mention in Project Files                                               2/77
Government Application                                                        _
Negotiations                                  12/78          4/79          7/30/79
Board Approval                                 2/79       7/79,8/79        9/18/79
Credit Documents Signed                       4/79           9/79          11/2/79
Effectiveness Date                            1/31/80                      1/29/80
Closing Date                                  12/31/83                     12/31/84
Borrower                                      Republic of Guinea
Executing Agency                              Ministry of Public Works
Fiscal Year                                                                Jan 1-Dec 31
Follow on Project                                                          Third Hwy Pjct
Credit Number                                                           1457-GUI
Amount of Credit                                                        US$28.0
MISSION DATA
Month/   No. of   No. of                   Date of
Item              Year      Weeks    Persons   Staffweeks   Report
Identification           3/78    1.5         2           3.0        4/78
Preparation               -        -         -           -
Preappraisal             7/78    1.0         2           2.0        7/78
Appraisal               10/78    2.5         2           5.0       08/79
Total                      5.0                   10.0
Supervision I            9/79    1.0         1           1.0       11/79
Supervision II           2/80    1.0         1           1.0        4/80
Supervision III          5/80    1.0         2           2.0        7/80
Supervision IV           2/81    1.0         2           2.0        3/81
Supervision V            6/81    1.0         1           1.0        7/81
Supervision VI          12/81    1.5         3           4.5        1/82
Supervision VII          2/82    2.5         4          10.0        3/82
Supervision VIII         7/82    1.0         1           1.0        8/82
Supervision IX          10/82    1.0         2           2.0       11/82
Supervision X           12/82    1.0         2           2.0        1/82
Supervision XI           3/83    1.0         2          2.0         7/83
Supervision XII          8/83    1.0         1           1.0        9/83
Current Exchange Rate
Name of Currency:                                    Guinean Syli (GSy)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average: 1979                  GSy 20 - US$1.0
Intervening Years Average: 1980-1983          GSy 22 - US$1.0
Current Year Average: Jan. - March 1984       GSy 23 = US$1.0



- iv -
GUINEA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 953-GUI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.          The purpose of the project was to continue the road rehabilitation
and maintenance program begun under the First Highway Project. The project
provided for the purchase of equipment, spare parts, supplies and materials,
workshop construction, and technical assistance required for implementation of
the rehabilitation and maintenance program; extension of the Ministry of
Public Work's (MTP) soils laboratory; and feasibility study and detailed
engineering for the Conakry-Mamou road (paras. 2.08 and 2.09).
2.          Since the First Pighway Prolect had been completed successfully,
no serious implementation problems were foreseen with the Second Project
(para. 6.01). However, with a change of Minister and of project organization
at the beginning of the project, the performance of the project began to
deteriorate (para. 4.08). Outputs declined because equipment and other materials
funded by the project were used for non-project activities, including construction
of airfields, maintenance of city streets and improvement of non-project roads
of lower economic priority (paras. 3.03 to 3.05). The Association did not
realize the full extent of equipment diversion until mid-1981. Action was
taken by the Guinean Government to rectify the situation in February 1982.
Gradually project performance improved, with the rehabilitation brigades
meeting their targets from April 1982 to December 1983 (a reduced program of
works is being carried out in the interim period up to effectiveness of the
Third Highway Project expected in August 1984) (para. 3.06).
3.          About 975 km of earth roads were rehabilitated by the end of the
project in December 1983, compared to an appraisal target of 1548 km (63%).
In addition, spot regravelling and other maintenance had been carried out on
1680 km of unpaved roads and an additional 740 km had been graded once. This
compares to an original project target for maintenance of 3459 km of unpaved
roads on which very little cantonnage took place. There was no resurfacing of
paved roads, although 300 km had been included at appraisal. In addition,
1141 km of paved roads were to be maintained under the project, but the only
maintenance carried out was 180 km of patching (para. 5.01).
4.          The following points are of particular interest:
(a) the reversal from successful project implementation under the
First Highway Project to very poor under the Second Highway
Project implementation with a change in project organization
and leadership (paras. 3.04, 4.08);



v
(b) the consultant's role in keeping the Association unaware of
serious problems with the project (pare. 4.04);
(c)  the impact of the Association on reversing the trend of the
project and greatly improving productivity (para. 6.02);
(d) the measures that can be taken to avoid a repetition of the
problems encountered under the project (para.. 4.10, 6.04);
(e) continuing problems with the establishment of a resurfacing
unit and poor quality of patching, as had occurred under the
First Highway Project (paras. 3.06-3.07, 6.03); and
(f)  Government's difficulties with meeting local and foreign
exchange contributions to project costs (paras. 3.23-24).



GUINEA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 953-GUI
PROJECT COMPT.ETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        In 1975, the Bank Group financed the first road rehabilitation and
maintenance project in Guinea, following years of neglect of maintenance of
the classified highway network. It took five years for the Government to be
convinced that road maintenance was the highest priority in the highway sub-
sector, for throughout the 1960s efforts had been directed to development of
the mining sector and related transport infrastructure. The project was the
first Bank Group transport operation in Guinea which was not related to
mining. In view of this background, the project was remarkably successful -
930 km of gravel roads were rehabilitated, 300 km were graded, and 900 km of
paved roads were patched. Not all of the project targets were met, the most
serious being the failure to resurface any of the 405 km of paved roads
originally included in the project. The Second Highway Project was meant to
continue rehabilitation work carried out under the First Project and further
develop road maintenance capability throughout the country.
1.02        During the First Highway Project a maintenance unit was
established within the Ministry of Public works (MTP) and a consultant
technical assistance team developed local technical and managerial skills.
Output of the rehabilitation and maintenance brigades was excellent until the
last year of the project, although the quality of works carried out varied
considerably. Problems which subsequently became major obstacles to project
Implementation during the Second Highway Project were the lack of economic or
physical planning, failure to keep accounting records, and the primacy of non-
project considerations. In addition, the diversion of equipment to nonr
project uses during the last year of the First Project became a major problem
during the Second Project, although this could not be foreseen, since the
Second Project was appraised before the Association became aware of this
issue.
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Preparation
2.01        As soon as the First Highway Project was under way the Association
consulted with the Government concerning the preparation of a second phase of
the maintenance program. The initial project brief in 1977 identified a large



-2-
rehabilitation and maintenance program, as well as the reconstruction of the
?4amou-Labe road, for a total cost of US$52 million. By 1978, the project
scope had been limited to extension of the maintenance program and
preinvestment studies for the reconstruction of the Conakry-Namou road. The
latter was seen as a means of studying the rail/road intermodal issue in the
Conakry-Mamou corridor, rather than initiating a full-scale transport planning
exercise for the entire country.
2.02        By early 1978, Government had proposed the rehabilitation of 2500
km of roads, but was subsequently convinced by the Association that not all of
the roads were economically justified. Economic analysis of a rehabilitation
and maintenance program was carried out by the consultants engaged under the
First Highway Project: by mid-1978 they had identified 1626 km of high
priority gravel/earth roads for rehabilitation and 4622 km of paved and
unpaved roads for routine maintenance. The project was also to include the
rehabilitation of MTP's soils laboratory to support the road rehabilitation
program and feasibility studies financed under the project.
Appraisal and Negotiations
2.03        The project was appraised in September 1978.  The total length of
roads to be rehabilitated was slightly reduced from 1626 km to 1548 km and
roads to be maintained from 4622 km to 4581 km. The total cost of the project
was estimated at US$26.8 million, with a foreign cost of US$21.5 million, of
which the Association intended to fund US$11.0 million and the EEC Special
Action Fund US$4.0 million. At Appraisal there was still a US$6.5 million
financing gap, although the Saudi and Kuwait Funds and BADEA had expressed
interest in the project. Finally, in March 1979, BADEA agreed to participate
in the project with a loan of US$6.0 million. By negotiations in July 1979,
project costs had increased to US$28.7 million because of increases in the
price of gasoline; however, total foreign costs remained at US$21.6 million
(75% of total costs) due to an original over-estimation of the foreign
exchange component of the cost of gasoline. As a result of this revision to
the cost estimates, there was no financing gap for the foreign exchange
costs. During negotiations, however, the Government requested 80% external
financing, which would be more in line with the 85% average cost sharing
arrangements for other projects. The Association agreed to increase the
Credit amount from US$11.0 to US$13.0 in view of the country's low per capita
GNP and heavy debt service requirements, bringing the level of external
financing to 80% of total project costs.
2.04        To encourage the allocation of foreign exchange for recurrent road
maintenance coRts, the Association insisted that the Government finance US$0.5
million of the US$1.5 million incremental foreign exchange costs of the
project. The remaining US$1.0 million (and US$1.7 million local costs) were
financed by the Association on a declining basis. The Association was also
anxious that Government should gradually assume responsibility for the renewal
of maintenance equipment and for spare parts. Therefore, the Government
agreed to allocate about US$1.5 million annually in foreign exchange,
beginning in the third year of the project. The length of time required to



- 3 -
obtain import licences and the country's scarcity of foreign exchange
necessitated the creation of a special foreign exchange account with
simplified procedures for access to funds, as had been done under two other
IDA projects in Guinea. The establishment of such an account was made a
condition of dlsbursement for the second tranche of equipment to be procured
in 1981 to replace equipment financed under the First Highway Project.
2.05        The appraisal mission considered that since local currency
requirements under the First Project had been adequately funded, no local
currency revolving fund was roquired for the Second Project. However, the
newly appointed Minister of Public Works expressed concern during a
prenegotiation mission over the problems with timely provision of budgeted
funds. Therefore, the Green Cover SAR included an additional requirement for
the establishment of a local currency revolving fund of GSy 20 million to pay
local currency expenditures; this was ultimately made a condition of
effectiveness.
2.06        The use of labor-intensive methods was considered at appraisal,
but equipment-intensive methods were selected because:
-    rural areas were sparsely populated with concentration of
population in larger settlements;
-    the legally prescribed civil service wage levels were low and
not competitive with alternative income-earning
opportunities;
-    equipment utilisation and output with equipment-intensive
methods were satisfactory under the First Project.
Labor-intensive methods were, however, to be employed for routine maintenance
activities (cantonnage). Assistance to the domestic construction industry was
also considered, but was not included in the project because of lack of
Government interest and of any organized private construction sector.
2.07        Negotiations were scheduled for the end of April 1979, but the
Guinean delegation was unable to attend because of a tense political situation
in the country. legotiations finally took place during the last week of July
1979. The Government requested that the amount of technical assistance be
reduced from 243 to 215 man-months, since it felt that there were enough
Guineans trained under the First Highway Project to make up for the
reduction. The Association agreed to Lhe reduction with the proviso that the
remaining funds be kept for possible short-term consultancies. The project
was approved by the Board on September 19, 1979.
Project Objectives and Description
2.08        The objective of the project was to continue and virtually
complete the rehabilitation of high priority primary and secondary roads,



- 4 -
extend and reinforce road maintenance of this network, and improve the
sectoral planning and execution capacity of MTP.
2.09        The project consisted of a three year program of road maintenance
and rehabilitation - 1548 km of rehabilitation (listed in Table 3.2) and 4622
km of maintenance and rehabilitation. The latter included all the paved road
network, 300 km of which were to be resurfaced with extensive repairs to the
base course. The project included the following components:
(a) provision of (i) highway equipment and spare parts, (ii)
construction of workshops and offices, (iII) operating costs
for road rehabilitation and maintenance, and (iv) technical
assistance to implement the road rehabilitation and
maintenance program and train mechanics and equipment
operators;
(b) renovation of the soils laboratory, plus provision of
laboratory equipment, technical assistance for training of
laboratory technicians and fellowships;
(c) feasibility study and detailed engineering for the
reconstruction of some sections of the Conakry-Mamou road
(250 km) which would include training of Guinean engineers
and economists to strengthen preinvestment studies capability
within MTP.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Credit Effectiveness
3.01        There were two conditions of effectiveness - (i) cross-
effectiveness with the BADEA loan, and (ii) establishment of a syli revolving
fund and initial payment of GSy 20.0 million into it by the Government. The
date of effectiveness was set for January 31, 1980, by which time all
conditions were met.
Project Start-up
3.02        Late in 1979, the Association agreed to change the project
composition from five regravelling brigades to four heavy brigades, following
the success under the First Project with the two heavy brigades. This
involved some modifications to the list of equipment to be procured. The
project began in April 1980 (three months later than scheduled), when funds
under the First Project were finally exhausted. Since there were insufficient
funds to complete the road maintenance program under the First Project, the
standard was lowered to spot regravelling and other maintenance activities
which were carried out on about 150 km of the highest priority roads at the
beginning of the Second Project, for a total cost of about US$1.0 million.



-5-
Although work on these roads was completed in June 198n, the full start of the
Second Project still did not occur until January 1981, because of delays in
delivery of equipment. Four brigades started to carry out rehabilitation work
at the beginning of the dry season in September 1980 with existing equipment,
but the quality of work by three of the brigades was so poor that it had to be
redone in January 1981. This was not only because the brigades did not have
sufficient equipment, but also because of inadequate staffing and lack of
discipline. The quality of patching works was also poor, as had been the case
under the First Project. Very little cantonnage had begun by the beginning of
1981 and resurfacing of paved roads had not started because the gravel plant
and resurfacing equipment had been used on non-project city streets and
airfields in Faranah, Conakry and Labe.
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
3.03        During 1981, Association missions were led to believe that project
start-up problems and a lack of discipline in following the agreed work
program were the only reasons why project output was low. In June 1981,
following field visits by a supervision mission and the release by Government
of - extensively edited - consultants' progress reports for 1980 and the first
half of 1981, the Association realized that the situation was far worse than
previously thought.  Thorough investigations of the project were carried out
by a November 1981 supervision mission, then by a mission sent out to appraise
the Third Highway Project in February 1982.  As a result of the mission's
findings, the appraisal was postponed. The February 1982 mission established
that:
-    the four heavy brigades had only rehabilitated 178 km of
unpaved roads out of a target of 1032 km (later estimates
reduced this figure to 163 km);
-    the three light maintenance brigades and one grading unit had
only maintained about 990 km of unpaved roads compared with
a target of nearly 3000 km;
-    very little and very poor quality patching had been carried
out by four units; and
-    there had been no paved road resurfacing and cantonnage.
Meanwhile, with less than 15% of the work program carried out, over 602 of the
project budget had been spent. The main reason for this poor performance was
diversion of equipment and crews to non-project uges, aggravated by shortages
of fuel and spare parts, and lack of local funds.
3.04        The March 1982 supervision report sums up the project situation at
the end of 1981: "The project appears double faced: the official one for the
Bank, with .... equipment assigned to the brigades, written official
instructions prepared by the consultants and signed by the Minister ....; and
the unofficial one, with verbal instructions or handwritten notes given by the



- 6 -
Minister or his staff during field trips       , handwritten reports by the
brigades heads, all deliberately kept as secret as possible from the Bank's
missions and, to a lesser extent, the consultant.'. The mismion confirmed
that fuel and equipment had been diverted from routine maintenance brigades
for emergency pothole filling of a politically important road, regravelling
brigades had been diverted to work on airfields or non-programmed roads, that
many pieces of equipment cited as 'under repair' were in fact assigned to non-
project related works (particularly repair of city streets), and that
equipment had been moved around to an excessive extent before and after
supervision misasons, resulting in many breakdowns.
3.05        At the end of the mission, Association staff met with the
President and other ministers and explained that appraisal of the Third
Highway Project could not proceed in view of the poor performance of the
Second Project. The mission insisted that regular detailed reports be
submitted to the Association and tied in receipt of such reports with project
disbursements (para. 3.22). The mission also recommended that within the new
Ministry of Infrastructure and Major Works (MIGAT) that was to replace MTP, a
strong central unit should be established and put in charge of all mechanized
rehabilitation and maintenance brigades. The professional staff, including
the consultants, should be made responsible and accountable for the brigades'
activities. In addition, management and administrative controls should be put
into practice, given the current situation of very few financial controls and
either poor or no record-keeping of project activities.
3.06        Shortly after the mission left, the Minister of Public Works and
other professional staff were replaced. Under the new Minister, equipment
diversion on a lesser scale first continued, but as information started to
flow more easily and quickly, telexes sent by the Association to the Prime
Minister and other ministers resulted in pressure on the new Minister to give
more support to the project. Many of the mission's recommendations were
adopted, particularly the centralization of control of the mechanized brigades
in the hands of the consultants and their counterparts. Project performance
gradually improved throughout 1982 and 1983. By late 1983, most of the
diverted equipment had been returned to the units, with the exception of some
US$0.4 million of equipment mostly intended for the resurfacing unit. Fuel
continued to be diverted from the rehabilitation units, although in
diminishing amounts: MIGAT used some of this fuel for street maintenance in
Conakry. There was probably also small pilferage by brigade staff, but this
was difficult to control in a country where fuel has been very scarce and
where the blackmarket price of two litres of fuel has been equal to a day's
wages for most o' those working on the project: in practice pilferage of fuel
has worked as a non cash incentive for field staff. Also, part-payment of
project staff in foodstuffs (grain, vegetable oils, etc.) provided through the
World Food Program was an important element in motivating personnel to come
close to projected outputs in difficult conditions.
3.07        By linking appraisal of the Third Highway Project with
accomplishment of output targets for the Second Project, the Association was
able to put pressure on the Government to greatly improve output until the end



of the prolect. December 1983 is taken as the end of the project, although
US$0.4 remAined in the BADEA loan for financing of equipment (para. 3.17).
The targeted output of 813 km from April 1982 to December 1983 has been met -
this compares to the 163 km rehabilitated from April 1980 to March 1982.
Output was particularly good during the latter part of 1983. By end-1983, a
total of 975 km of roads has been rehabilitated, compared to the original
project target of 1548 km (63%). About 1680 km of unpaved roads had received
routine maintenance py the light mechanized brigades, and an additional 740 km
had been graded once_.  Therefore, 2420 km of unpaved roads had received some
maintenance compared with the project target of 3459 km (70X). On the 1141 km
of paved roads, there was no resurfacing and only 180 km were patched, but
much of the patching failed because of poor quality work and the poor
condition of the roads. In addition, very little cantonnage was carried out.
3.08        Besides diversion of equipment there were several other obstacles
to project implementation. One was the shortage of fuel throughout 1981.
This was the result of a scarcity of fuel in the country as a whole, partly
because ONAH , the Government-owned agency which had the monopoly for
importing petroleum products, was continually late in its payment to
suppliers. Consequently, the Association suggested that the project procure
fuel directly. A bid was awarded to a company that was also meant to supply
ONAH with a much larger quantity of fuel, but the company eventually lost the
ONAR contract to a lower bidder. In the end, a project contract was signed
with ONAR and the Government agreed to exempt the fuel from tax, so that the
Association financed 100% of the foreign cost and the General Directorate of
Planning the 5% of local overhead costs. This overcame the problem of
insufficient local funds being made available in the revolving fund for the
purchase of fuel.
3.09        A shortage of spare parts was another problem encountered during
the project. Government delayed ordering spare parts at the beginning of the
project; also the procurement of small but essential spares under the Credit
was found to be a time-consuming process. Therefore, the Credit Agreement was
amended in February 1981 to allow direct procurement of spare parts and
materials up to a total amount of US$150,000. Throughout 1980-81 and at
various times duing 1982-83, spares were in short supply because of slow and
inefficient procurement procedures and use for non-project equipment. The
arrival of a consultant mechanical engineer in May 1981 somewhat improved the
situation, as he was able to draw up the list of needed spares and prepare
bidding documents. To improve poor maintenance of equipment, an additional
expatriate senior mechanic was hired to assist with equipment maintenance in
the Ministry's workshops.
3.10        When the Association reviewed project accounts in late-1981 and
early-1982, it found that there was no effective accounting system and that no
records were kept for many items purchased. Therefore, a firm of accounting
consultants was hired under the project to review past expenditures and design
1/ Total grading amounted to 1600 km at end-1983, but some roads which had
been maintained by the light brigades were also graded by the grader ucits.



a new accounting system. The major findings of the consultants' study were
that (i) there was no provision in the control system for systematic
verification of receipt of goods and services, (ii) proper auditing was
impossible because of inadequate documentation, and (iii) local accounting
staff were unaware of the purpose of control procedures. Accuunting improved
greatly when a project accountant joined the consultant team in 1982, and
throughout 1983 effective accounting systems have been gradually instituted.
3.11        Provision was made in the project for construction of a new
building for the Department of Roads and Bridges (DGPC), but this was not
required since more offices became available in the existing MTP building due
to the departure of another Ministry. The Association agreed to finance the
renovation of the building, but because of lack of local funds, only DGPC's
workshop in Conakry was renovated in the end. Another workshop was to be
built in Labe, but instead one was set up in an existing building. No new
workshop construction, therefore, was required. Workshop equipment was
installed by both contractor and force account.
3.12        Overall, road maintenance has improved significantly since mid-
1982, although not without continued pressure from the Association. At no
time has output been as high as in the best year of the First Highway Project
(185 km per heavy brigade). Brigade performance has not been consistent: in
1983, the brigade with the lowest output was producing one half of the output
of the best brigade (Table 3.3). There have been considerable staffing
problems, with high absenteeism in some brigades and no sanctions for
indiscipline. Management of the brigades has been found to be a serious
problem; therefore, under the proposed Third Highway Project additional
consulting services are included to strengthen the management of brigades. By
the end of the project, four heavy and three light brigades were operational,
plus two patching and two grading brigades. This compares with an appraisal
target of five regravelling brigades (changed to four heavy brigades. three
patching brigades plus one resurfacing and one surface treatment brigade).
Soils Laboratory
3.13        Bids received in September 1980 for extension of the soils
laboratory were far higher than those estimated at appraisal. Therefore, the
Government rejected all of the bids and negotiated with a Spanish contractor
already working in Guinea to carry out the work at a lower cost of GSy 5.8
million (still nearly 50% higher than estimated). The contractor was
continually behind schedule and eventually defaulted. After a prolonged time,
another contractor (a joint-venture (Guinea-France) construction comlpany) was
awarded the contract in mid-1983 after limited international tendering
procedures. The laboratory was finally completed at the end of 1983. Some
laboratory equipment was delivered in 1980, allowing it to be used in the
Conakry-Mamou feasibility study: less equipment than planned was purchased
because of delays in completing the building. A joint venture between the
project consultants and a French laboratory was awarded the contract for
training of technicians for the soils laboratory in August 1980: short
fellowships were also given to some laboratory technicians. Soil tests for



- 9 -
the Conakry-Mamou feasibility study were carried out and all the paved roads
and material resources were surveyed as part of preparation of the Third
Highway Project.
Conakry-Mamou Road Feasibility Study
3.14        At the beginning of the project, the Government sought to include
in the feasibility study the segment of the road from the Presidential Palace
in Conakry to the previously designated origin on the outskirts of Conakry.
However, the Association did not agree and the study remained as planned. The
consulting contract was awarded to a French company in 1980 and the first
phase of the study was completed by mid-1981. A number of the economic
assumptions in the study over-estimated future economic growth and thus
related traffic growth, but these projections were subsequently lowered
following the Association's recommendations. The Association's projections of
lower economic growth have so far been supported by the country's
disappointing economic performance. The consultants examined several
alternative levels of rehabilitation, and finally recommended 58 km of minor
realignments and 88 km of major realignments. Detailed engineering and draft
bidding documents were completed by March 1982. Because of financial
limitations, the proposed Third Highway Project includes the least cost
alternative of selective strengthening over 245 km of roads and spot geometric
improvements on 10 km.
Training
3.15        The project continued the program for training of mechanics by the
Public Works Training Center established under the First Highway Project:
altogether, about 20 mechanics were trained. In addition, brigade chiefs and
operators received on-the-job training. Twenty-three staff from DGPC and the
soils laboratory received short training courses abroad, amounting to 62 manr
months. Training of mechanics has had a very limited impact partly because of
the low education level of trainees and poor quality of training. No training
program was defined at the beginning of the project and no training
specialists were included, apart from a mechanical engineer. The proposed
Third Highway Project, however, includes more detailed training programs and
provision of 30 man-months of technical assistance.
Procurement
3.16        IDA and EEC-financed project components.  During the first year of
the project several small procurement problems were resolved. The Credit
Agreement was also amended to allow the direct procurement of spares
(para. 3.09) and change in disbursements for direct procurement of fuel
(para. 3.08). After analysis of project accounts in November 1981, the
Association found that direct procurement of spare parts had exceeded the
ceiling stipulated in the Credit Agreement by 90Z. The Association had also
disbursed at the official exchange rate (about six times higher than the black
market rate) when many of the spares had been purchased in the black market.
In addition, an estimated US$135,000 of project funds were used for direct



- 10 -
procurements not approved by the Association and/or for items not included in
the project. In light of Guinea's chronic shortage of foreign exchange and
the Government's efforts to improve the project, the Association decided in
mid-1982 not to seek reimbursment on possible past over-payments (para. 3.22),
but reduced the disbursement percentage on GSy expenditures from 95% to 15%
then to 1X in April 1983.
3.17        BADEA-financed project components.  There were several procurement
problems with the BADEA loan, especially concerning the qualification of
companies to bid for BADEA-financed project components. The first concerned
the purchase of cement, which was originally meant to have been purchased
through the Government-owned agency, Batiport. However, the Government went
out to tender because Batiport was unable to meet the project's needs. After
letting the contract, BADEA found that the company selected was on their
boycott list and refused to reimburse the Government for 600 tons of cement
already delivered. It appears that this problem was subsequently resolved and
Government was finally reimbursed. A similar problem occurred with the
purchase of trucks in 1982, for the lowest evaluated bidder (France) was also
blacklisted by BADEA. Consequently, the Government had to renegotiate a
contract with the second lowest bidder (France) after the bid validity period
had expired. This resulted in a 55% higher cost than the lowest evaluated
bid, although this was partly because the type of trucks purchased was
different. There were other minor procurement problems and many delays in
approving contracts.
Reporting
3.18        Project progress reports for April 1980-June 1981 were not
released by the Government until mid-1981. The reports were not very detailed
and left many questions unanswered. Little information was given on the costs
of each brigade or the consumption of fuel, spare parts, etc. It is not
surprising that the reports were not more precise considering the poor state
of the accounts during the first part of the project. Progress reports
improved considerably after the Association requested full details of all
project activities on a monthly basis, instead of quarterly as before.
Project Costs
3.19        As of the end of January 1984, project costs totalled US$28.75
million. Total project costs are expected to be about US$29.47 million,
compared with US$28.73 estimated at appraisal. However, total output was
lower than projected and about US$4.0 million would be needed to complete the
rehabilitation program alone, based on 1983 output and costs. The cost of
highway equipment and spare parts was underestimated by about US$2.5 million
because of increases in unit prices, changes in the amount of equipment
purchased at the beginning of the project, higher than estimated amounts of
equipment renewal, and higher than estimated spare parts requirements.
Technical assistance costs were 69% higher than projected (US$2.12 million),
mainly because of the prolonged project period and additional staff
required. By end-1983, there had been about 350 man-months of technical



- 11 -
assistance compared to the 243 projected. Higher unit costs also accounted
for about one-third of the increased costs. The cost of expanding the soils
laboratory was also higher than estimated (estimated to be 78X higher by the
time of completion) because of the default of the first contractor and 502
increase in the price of the contract. All other project component costs were
lower - there was less technical assistance and less equipment purchased for
the soils laboratory, the cost of the feasibility study was lower than
estimated, and the workshop at Labe and DGPC offices were not constructed.
Operating costs were 252 lower than estimated because of less than projected
output (para. 3.07). Rehabilitation costs per km varied from US$9200 to
US$15100 in 1983 (including 602 of equipment and all technical assistance
costs).
3.20        Devaluation of EEC currencies against the dollar resulted in a
nominal loss of about US$0.36 million from the EEC Credit which was
denominated in EEC currencies. Project costs for the first part of the
project are not as reliable as for the second part, because of the poor state
of the accounting system from 1980 to mid-1982. Also, the extent to which
expenditures were for non-project uses is not altogether clear during that
period. Lastly, project expenditures in sylis overstate the cost of locally
procured goods and services because of the overvalued exchange rate. This is
especially the case, for example, for the spare parts purchased at syli prices
which reflected the market exchange rate rather than the official rate (para.
3.16).
Disbursements
3.21        By the end of 1981, nearly two years after the project began, only
48% of the credit proceeds had been disbursed. This situation arose because
full start-up of the project did not begin until January 1981, due to delays
in the delivery of equipment. In addition, Government was slow in procuring
spare parts. About 752 of the EEC Credit had been disbursed, compared to only
50% of the BADEA loan by end-1981. BADEA's slow procurement procedures and
related problems (para. 3.17) were the main reasons for the delay. In
September 1982, BADEA suspended disbursements without consulting the
Association because Guinea was behind in its interest payments, but
disbursements resumed by the end of the year after Government made the
necessary payments. As of end-January 1984, 87% of the IDA Credit, all of the
EEC Credit, and 832 of the BADEA Loan had been disbursed. Final disbursements
are expected to be made by September 30, 1984.
3.22        After the full extent of project equipment diversion was revealed
in early 1982, the Association seriously considered suspending
disbursements. The Association decided, however, to make disbursements
conditional on (i) issuance of progress reports (because Government had not
released consultants' progress reports during the first half of the project),
and (ii) improved output from the brigades and reconciliation of outputs with
brigade expenditures. The Government had considerable difficulties
prefinancing the externally financed portion of the project, given its
continual budgetary and foreign exchange constraints. Therefore, the



- 12 -
Association has suggested that under the proposed Third Highway Project, the
Association will make an initial deposit of US$O.530 million into the
Revolving Fund with replenishment' upon receipt of certified statements of
expenditure and Government replenishment of syli drawings.
Financing
3.23        Table 3.5 shows the external financing of the project.  While the
overall amounts remained the same, financing of individual project components
changed considerably becamse ol increases in equipment/spare parts
expenditures and consultant services, and decrease in brigade operating
costs. In addition, less equipment than envisaged was financed by EEC because
some of the lowest bids came from Brazilian manufacturers which were not
eligible for EEC financing. Cost overruns were financed by Government. At
appraisal, the Government agreed to provide US$1.5 million in foreign exchange
for the renewal of maintenance equipment in 1983, but to date these funds have
not been allocated by Government (para. 4.02).
3.24        At the end of 1982, there was still about US$0.4 million of
uncommitted BADEA funds. The Association suggested that this be reallocated
to the purchase of badly needed spare parts and technical assistance, so as to
enable the project to continue until the Third Highway Project could begin.
The Association thought that these recommendations had been agreed by BADEA,
but at the beginning of 1983, BADEA insisted that the funds be kept for
equipment or cancelled and that the financing of its 33% share of technical
assistance costs would cease by March 1983. As a result, the project had to
be reduced to the bare minimum during the last few months, until a PPF could
be approved to bridge the gap between the Second and Third Highway Projects.
The remaining BADEA funds have now been committed for the purchase of
additional trucks.
IV. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Covenants and Borrower's Performance
4.01        Details of covenants contained in the IDA and EEC Credit
Agreements and Government's compliance with them are given in Annex 1. The
covenant requiring the establishment of the Syli Revolving Fund was met
(Section 3.01 (b-d)), but Government was often slow to provide sufficient
funds for the fund, which meant that payments to suppliers were often
delayed. One of the main violations of the Credit Agreements was the use of
project equipment and funds for non-project activities (Section 3.03 (b)),
although this has now been substantially curbed (para. 3.06). In addition,
during the first half of the project, adequate records were not kept of
project activities and IDA was not given adequate information on project
implementation (e.g. reports prepared by consultants were held back for long
periods and passed on to the Bank in severely edited versions (Section 3.04
(b) and 4.01 (a)). The accounting system was such that audits of project



- 13 -
accounts (Section 4.02) were not possible until the second part of the
project.
4.02        The covenant requlring an annual provision of US$3.2 million (in
1979 prices) for recurrent road maintenance operating expenses in 1983
(Section 4.03 (b)) has not been met. However, the Government is now meeting
all the local costs of the rehabilltation and maintenance program, although
this does not amount co US$3.2 million because of the reduced slze of the
program. A conditlon of disbursement for the second tranche of equlpment
procured in 1982-83 was the opening of a special foreign exchange account
(Schedule 1, 4(b)) into which the Government was to put US$1.5 million
requlred for renewal of equipment (Sectlon 4.03 tc)). The fund was set up but
funding has not been provided by Government; hence, the provision of US$1.0
million for equipment renewal and US$0.5 million for spare parts and fuel
during the transition period between the Second and Third Highway Project was
a condition of Board presentation for the Thlrd Highway Project.
Consultants Performance
4.03        USA/Belgian consultants employed under the First Highway Project
were vetained for the Second Project. Supervision missions had noted a
deterioration in their performance at the end of the First Project and this
continued into the Second Project. They had phased out of daily project
execution and did not appear to be carrying out sufficfent field
inspections: the Association also found their work .' accounting procedures
to be unsatisfactory. The Government agreed to empAoy a short-term consultant
to help reactivate the cost accounting system set up under the First Highway
Project and set up internal -ontrols.
4.04        When the full magnitude of equipment diversion became apparent at
the beginning of 1982, supervision missions considered that the consultants'
mission chief had, at best, played a passive role, and, by not contrauicting
information given to the missions, supported the practice of 'staging' for the
missions. In view of the passive complicity of the consultants' mission
chief, the Association requested that he be replaced and a replacement was
found in mid-1982. Admittedly, the consultant is in a delicate situation when
he is told by the Government not to inform the Association of certain details,
because he is directly responsible to the Government and not to the
Association. However, a consultant has to distinguish between his
responsibility to a particular representative of the Government, i.e. the
Minister of Public Works, and to the Government and people of Guinea as a
whole. The consultant also has to consider what is the most appropriate
action from a professional point of view.
4.05        During the suspended appraisal mission in February 1982, the
Association recommended that instead of consultants taking only an advisory
role, they should be made jointly responsible for project implementation.
Consequently, DGPC, the consultants and the Association agreed on new terms of
reference for each member of the consultant team. Thereafter, the consultants
were given more responsibility along with their counterparts, although not



- 14 -
without some initial resistance from the new Minister. Their involvement has
helped to improve the output of the brigades and improve the wbole
administration and accounting of the project. Undoubtedly, the consultants
have had to work in a very difficult situation, both from the point of view of
lack of clear definition of their role within MIGAT, lack of accountability of
Guinean staff, and the difficult physical conditions in the field.
4.06        The original team of consultants included two highway engineers,
two bridge engineers, one mechanical engineer and three mechanics. By the end
of the project, additional services had been provided by one financial
analyst, one accountant, a mechanical training specialist, and an additional
mechanic. By the end of the project there had been 350 manrmonths of
technical assistance compared to the 243 envisaged at appraisal.
Significantly, most of the above consulting expertise will still be required
in the proposed Third Highway Project for the road rehabilitation and
maintenance component.
4.07        The consultant jointly with a French laboratory were selected for
assistance to MTP's soils laboratory. As the building has still not been
completed, some of the consultant services were curtailed. A French
consultant was selected to carry out the feasibility study for the Conakry-
Mamou road, which was completed by March 1982. Both consultants performed
satisfactorily.
Institutional Performance
4.08        MTP has divisions in each of the seven provinces which in turn
have 33 subdivisions whose responsibilities included the routine maintenance
of roads: the divisions were directly responsible to the Minister of Public
Works.  DGPC had overall responsibility for the administration, engineering,
construction and maintenance of the national road system. Under the First
Highway Project, the road rehabilitation and maintenance program was set up as
a separate unit with its own budget and staff within DCPC. An objective of
the Second Highway Project was to integrate the unit into DGPC's Directorate
of Road Maintenance and Equipment which would be responsible for all of road
rehabilitation and maintenance operations: day-to-day maintenance was to be
carried out by the subdivisions. The separate project unit, under the First
Highway Project, had functioned well, largely because of the autonomy of the
project unit and the Minister's commitment to the project. However, at the
beginning of the Second Project a new Minister with less commitment was
appointed and he used the centralized decisionrmaking system to divert project
equipment and materials, with project staffs' orders overruled by verbal
orders from the Minister. The deterioration of the project during the first
two years indicates the extent to which there were fundamental institutional
problems - gross interference from above which could not be prevented by
institutional means and a complete absence of control systems to monitor the
use of resources. The problem was compounded by the attempt to integrate the
project unit into the rest of the Ministry, resulting in a diffusion of
control of the project and confusion over the role of different departments.



- 15 -
4.09        In response to the deteriorating situation and to pressures from
the regional authorities, the President reorganized ?TP into a new Ministry of
Infrastructure, MIGAT, in 1982.  About one half of MTP's personnel were
assigned to MIGAT, while many of the other staff were transferred to the CGRs
(now Provinces). The role of the provincial subdivisions in road maintenance
was to be increased, but the Association convinced the Government that they
did not have sufficient expertise to handle mechanized brigades. The
responsibilities for routine maintenance have been allocated to the CGRs which
will handle labor-based routine maintenance operations and only minor
equipment-based operations, in line with the Association's recommendations.
Meanwhile, the performance of the mechanized brigades has improved under
MIGAT, although performance has not been consistent (para. 3.12).  Problems
encountered in the First Highway Project continued to plague the Second
Project: (a) emphasis on quantity rather than quality, (b) delayed repair
works in large part due to lack of spare parts which resulted from delays in
procuring spares, and (c) administrative delays in purchasing fuel and
materials, paying wages and bonuses, and processing disbursement requests to
the Association and BADEA.
4.10        To overcome the problems of diversion of equipment and materials,
low wages, and cumbersome civil service administrative procedures, Government
has set up an autonomous Road Project Office (OPR) under the Third Highway
PrLject. This will be supervised by a Road Project Management Council
comprised of representatives of several ministries with the Secretary of State
for MIGAT as Chairman. The present twe'lve force acount brigades will be
integrated into a Division of Works within the OPR and will be managed with
technical assistance from an experienced international contracting company.
OPR will operate independently from the Ministry's administration, with
particular discretion to hire and fire personnel and set wage levels and to
procure materials and spare parts.
V. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
5.01        The rehabilitation and maintenance program was smaller than the
program evaluated at appraisal, as shown in the table below:
Appraisal       Actual
Resealing of paved roads                        300                0
Rehabilitation of earth roads                  1548              975
Maintenance of unpaved roads                   3459             2421
Maintenance of paved roads                     1141               179
Traffic levels in 1980/81 were different than projected at appraisal for six
of the roads rehabilitated, but averaged out to the same level for the
rehabilitation program as a whole. However, the appraisal projected a 5Z
annual traffic growth, but the economic reevaluation projects 3.5Z in line
with Third Highway Project appraisal assumptions, in view of the sluggish
growth of the Guinean economy.



- 16 -
5.02        The economic reevaluation is complicated by: (a) an unknown amount
of project goods and services being used on non-project related activities,
especially during the first two years, (b) uncertain expenditures for the
first half of the project because of poor cost accounting, and (c) lack of
data on the costs of each brigade during the first half of the project.
Therefore, actual costs could not be allocated between the rehabilitation
program and various maintenance activities until 1983: theme costs are
probably not representative of the project because it is the only year in
which the project was performing well. Consequently, estimates of
rehabilitation costs made by the Consultants in 1980 for the Third Highway
Project have been used in the economic reevaluation, with an allowance for the
extra cost incurred because of the lower efficiency of the Second Project.
These costs do not include the cost of non-project related works. The
estimated cost of US$13500 per km (in 1980 prices) is consistent with the
US$11000 per km cost during the Second Highway Project, updated to 1980 prices
and with an allowance for the lower efficiency of the Second Project. Just
over half of the estimated cost is comprised of the actual cost of equipment
assigned to the rehabilitation brigades and technical assistance costs. A
very low rehabilitation cost os US$4500 per km was used at appraisal. All
costs are in economic prices with a shadow exchange rate of GSy 40 to one
dollar.
5.03        A separate evaluation has not been carried out for the maintenance
program because the costs are unknown.  However ! when evaluating the total
cost of the project, the benefits of the maintenance program are included.
The total costs of the project will include those for all non-project related
activities (exact amount not known), but no estimate of the benefits of these
activities have been made.
5.04        Vehicle operating cost estimates are higher than those used at
appraisal, as shown in Table 5.1. The new estimates are based on the findings
of the HDM model which was used in 1980 as part of the preparation for the
Third Highway Project. Overall, estimates are about twice as high as those at
appraisal. At appraisal, the assumption was that the roads would be
adequately maintained after rehabilitation and initial maintenance. However,
since routine maintenance of the road network has not been successfully
developed under the Second Highway Project, a lower standard of maintenance
has been assumed (in line with Third Highway Project assumptions in the
without project case). The rehabilitated roads are assumed to revert from
good to fair condition three years after completion: roads receiving
maintenance under the project are assumed to deteriorate to mid-way between
good and fair condition after three years. Patching of paved roads is
consid -ed to have had minimal impact because of the initial poor condition of
the roads and poor quality of patching work.
5.05        The reevaluated rates of return for the roads rehabilitated are
given in Table 5.2. The overall rate of return for the rehabilitation program
was 18%. One road had a negative rate of return because of a low traffic
level of 15 vpd: other roads ranged from 5X to 32%. This compares with a



- 17 -
range of 7X to 25% estimated at appraisal. Agricultural benefits included in
the economic evaluatton at appraisal for one package of roads have not been
included tn the reevaluation. The overall rate of return fer the project is
252, compared to 492 estimated at appraisal, including the benefits of the
maintenance program. However, this does not include the benefits of
expenditures on non-project activities.
VI. THE ROLE OF THE ASSOCIATION
6.01        The Association had little reason to suspect that major problems
would develop during the project, given the success of the previous one. In
addition, Appraisal of the Second Project was well under way before First
Project performance began to deteriorate. What had been underestimated was
(i) t.e degree to which the success of the First Project had been due to the
comr.itment of one key individual - the former Minister of Public Works - since
pr.Jgress with developing a road maintenance capacity within DGPC began to
falter with the succession of a new Minister, and (ii) the impact of the
change from a separate project unit to integration of the project in Ministry
operations and the withdrawal of the consultants from day-to-day supervision
of the project. This was a case of over-ambitious institution building and
the subsequent difficulties of monitoring and controlling equipment and
materials during the first two years of the project helped to make diversion
of such equipment that much easier.
6.02        The Association should have been ulore firm in insisting on the
release of the progress reports for the project, rather than waiting for
almost a year. In addition, it should have requested the consultant's head
office for a review of the project, so as to get a more objective view of the
situation. However, since the Association had no cause to be seriously
alarmed about project progress, pressure was not applied. When the
Association finally found out the extent of equipment diversion and other
problems, firm action was taken. Acting upon the Association's
recommendations, the Government put the consultants back in control of the
project after the mission chief had been replaced, and detailed reports of
project expenditures and output were subwitted on a monthly basis. The
difference in project implementation before and after mid-1982 is quite
remarkable and indicates the considerable impact the Association can have on
project implementation in Guinea.
6.03        The question arises of whether the Association was too lenient
with the Government over the diversion of project equipment during the first
two years of the project, for the situation was serious enough to warrant
suspension of disbursements. However, the Association had to take into
consideration what would happen to the roads already rehabilitated during the
First and Second Highway Projects, and also the not inconsiderable expertise
and momentum that had been built up within DGPC over the past five years. The
need for the development of a periodic and routine maintenance capability was
even more critical, if the benefits of the rehabilitation program were going



- 18 -
to be realized. Therefore, instead of suspending disbursements, the
Association chose to use the Third Highway Project as a lever to implement
essential measures and improve project performance. The one area where the
Association could have put more pressure on the Government concerned the
resurfacing of paved roads. The Association had financed two sets of
resurfacing equipment under the First and Second Highway Project without one
km of road having been resurfaced. Disbursements could have been made
conditional on resurfacing targets and additional technical assistance could
have been provided If necessary. Under the Third Highway Project, resurfacing
will be put out to contract.
6.04        The Third Highway Project aims to develop a maintenance capacity
outside of the civil service structure and has taken steps to reduce the
possibility of project goods and services being diverted to other uses.
Control of the newly established OPR (para. 4.10) will be shared by several
representatives from different ministries and disbursements will be
conditional on annual detailed external audit of cost accounting records. The
extent to which the mis-use of project funds can be avoided altogether is
difficulc to assess, given the scarcity of just about all kinds of goods in
Guinea and the increasing rehabilitation and maintenance demands of a
deteriorating infrastructure. Nevertheless, the safeguards proposed in the
Third Project should help to avoid the major problems that occurred during the
first two years of the Second Project.
6.05        The Association also found itself in a difficult position over the
Government not complying with the Credit Agreement's covenant requiring a
contribution of US$1.5 million for the foreign exchange cost of equipment
renewal. The economy of Guinea had deteriorated considerably since appraisal
of the project and the Government claimed that insufficient foreign exchange
funds were available for the project. With most of the credit funds disbursed
or committed by 1983, the only real leverage the Association had, once again,
was the Third Highway Project. Therefore, provision of US$1.5 million in
foreign exchange was made a condition of Board presentaLr.n of that project.
VII. C(NCLUSION
7.01        The Second Highway Project was a follow-up project of the First
Highway Project which had been very successful. However, Government personnel
changed and brought less commitment to the project, favoring other political
projects to the detriment of the road rehabilitation and maintenance
program. Although the Association only became aware of the problems of
diversion of project equipment and funds after nearly two years, it proved to
be not too late to pull the project together again. Most of the equipment was
returned and stricter controls were put on project materials, such as fuel and
spare parts. The last year of the project saw a marked improvement, although
still not up to the best year's output of the First Project.



- 19 -
7.02        The attempt to integrate the successful project unit established
under the First Project into MTP proved to be much too soon, for other
departments within the Ministry were not sufficiently developed to be able to
implement the project. In addition, experience has shown that the success of
the First Project and problems of the Second were very much affected by the
level of commitment to the project by key indlviduals, a very difficult impact
to assess when preparing projects. To avoid the negative impact of one
individual with complete control over the project, the Third Highway Project
attempts to curb the impact of any one individual by sharing control of the
project between several interested parties. Also, project activities are once
again to be undertaken by a separate unit. Measures will also be taken under
the Third Highway Project to ensure that many of the other problems of the
Second Project do not reoccur, such as strict accounting and disbursement
controls and contracting out of resurfacing works.



- 20 -
Annex 1
Borrowers Compliance with Maln Covenants
Development Credit Agreement 953-GUI
Section                       Covenant                        Compliance
3.01 (b)            Open Syli Revolving Fund                 Complied with
3.01 (b) (i)        Credit fund with GSy 20 million          Complied with
3.02                Employment of Consultants                Complied with
satisfactory to IDA
3.03 (b)            Project goods and services only          not complied with,
to be used for rehabilitation            particularly in
and maintenance of Borrower's            first half of
road network                             project
3.04 (b)            Keep adequate records of                 Not complied with in
4.01 (a) (b)        project progress                         first two years of
project, but
adequate records
kept by project
completion
4.03 (a)            Adequately maintain road network         Very little road
maintenance outside
of project
4.03 (b)            Allocate US$3.2 million n; 1979          Not complied with,
prices to cover recurren: road           but Govt providing
maintenance costs                        funds for reduced
1983 maintenance
program
4.03 (c) (i)        Procurement plan for equipment           Complied with
and spares, plan for establishing
foreign exchange account for
equipment renewal
4.03 (c) (ii)       Allocate foreign exchange                Not complied with.
equivalent of US$1.5 million at          Condition of Board
1979 prices for equipment                presentation for
renewal                                  Third Highway
Project
Schedule            No disbursements for equipment           Complied with
1, 4 (b)            to be purchased in 1981 until
IDA approved plan to establish
fund referred to in Section 4.03 (c)



-21-
Table 3.1
PRWJmr OMOZn RUt
QGU& SECOND HWAY PRj    (QREr  953-GUI)
Artual anx! Expected Project  ementatlon
Percent of
the works
Contractor/                                                  couplt
Cosultant         Date of                                    by expected
Project                         and             Appraisal            Actual               coiletio
Compment                      Nationality        Estiute               Date                    date
A. Road Rehbilitation
said Mainteanc~e
(i) H    rgm  eqipmnt
spare parts, materials
and suppLie:
-  preparation bing                               7/79, 1/81           7/79, 11/81
docusmts
-  award of contracts                             10/79, 5/81          5/80, 12/82
-  supply equipimnt, spares    Various            12/80, 12/81         2/81, early 1984       20,0
-  supply materials, supplies  Various            10/79, 12/82         3/80, 12/83            40,0
(ii) Construction offices      force account      9/79 - 12/80              9/80            cpmnt reduced
and p8rkshxp
(iii) TA                       LBT                1/80 - 12/82         12/79 - 12/83
(iv) Road rehabilitation
works                     force account      1/80 - 12/82         2/80 - 12/83           44
B. National Soils Laboratory
Rehbailitation
(i)  Building extension        MCSA/OGU1CD            4/80             3/81 - 12/83            0
(ii) Eqipmemt purchase
-  award contract                                     9/79
-  supply equipment                                  12/80                 4/81               33
(iii) TA                       IlB/EKJF           1/80 - 12/82            1981
C. Road Prelnwstaent Studies
Shrtlsting consultants                                6/79                 9/79
As.rd contract                 SIEC                   9/79                 4/80
Feasibility studies                               10/79 - 6/80         6/80 - 6/81             0
Review                                                8/80                 7/81
Detailed ergineering                              10/80 - 12/81        8/81 - 3/82            45
Source: Sec d Hlg y Project Appraisal Report
Supervision and Consultant Reports



- 22 -
Tab  3.2
Gm.&A SECKu  HnuIX    cDr (Ca=  953/GUI)
ow Ran   Muintome Prom
KM RehablMtated                K4Maintained
Appraisal              Actual
Roads to be R      litated          stimte    1980-Feb82 McM-Jami4 Total  1980-Fe182 Mqb2-Jam84   Total
Geoual-TeLtmle-Knfria                 256          41        210         251
Gaoual-Serlba-Koundeva-
Seel border                       154                     16          16
Labe-Seriba                            146          49         97         146
Labe-Koubia                             83                                 0
Labe-Lelo  a                            53                                 0
Labe-Torgue                             85                     81         81
Labe-Mali                              104                     45         45
Dabola-Faraanh                         113          45         68         113
Dabola-DLxpigraye                      106                     74         74
ForecariahrSierra Leone border          35                                 0       15          15
KInkaDrSiguirl-NaU border              211          28        175        203
85                     46         46
BeylaSlidbo                             56                                 0
N'Zerelore-YEou                         61                                 0
Subtotal                          1,548         163        812        975       15          15
Roads Maintaimd
Dabola-YzurouSssa-Kadn                 240                                        230                     230
Gueckedou-St eredo0-N'Zerelzore        243                                        193      372            5651-
Karo                    100                                          70                     70
Thzbrelca-Bofa-Kolabounyi              195                                        190                     190
KarSameriCcruane                       145                                         30      155            1851/
Kemoumnx-eyl- N'Zerelcove              248                                         50      374            42411
Subtotal                          1,171           0          0          0 _    763       901
TOL                                             163        812        975      778      901           1679
1/ Initial work had to be redone beamuse of poor quality
Source: Conultant'a Progress Reports



- 23 -
Table 3.3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Ghana's tra
GUINEA SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 953-GUI)
Annual Output of Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Brigades
Rehabilitation    April 1980-Feb.82   March-Dec.1982   Jan-Dec.1983   Total
-    -k---------------  km  ---------------- -
BT1                  28                  74               147         249
2                  45                  57               130         232
3                  49                  73               110         232
4                  41                  66                74         181
83                    -                  31                50          81
Subtotal                163                 301               511         975
Light Maintenance
BL1                 310                 142              384          836
2                 263                 150               222         635
3                 205                                     -         205
Subtotal                778                 292               606       1676
Grading
BN1                 211                 194              1019       1424
BN2                   -                   -               180        180
Subtotal                211                 194              1199       1604
Patching                ------2 - ----    m 
BP2                  4,600                 -                -        4,600
BP3                  4,600               5,900          30,210      40,710
BP4                  6,900               4,800           11,600     23,300
BP5                  3,200                 -                -         3,200
Subtotal                19,300              10,700           41,810     71,810
Source: Consultant's Progress Reports and Draft Project Completion Report.



- 24-
7b1. 3.4
rawwwu-
am  m Wr nc  T
Aut 0d AAinlmu  btlmum o klm  auto (As of Jinn  31. 198)
MAulW                  fe-n  -             Aul C.t               Ma   -            -  h!s. -  4Ati Cunt
- kxmtq                                    -                        F.rthg
af 4App                                                          of hii    I
project ~ainae       Zical            Ibcn   ling"   YO         Ta1   bUmbm           mcml  rm          Tata1   laud    rad     Tom1   batiin
ad muntam_ 5                                           _       MA                                      2725                      26.4_
o euIa & spas Pera  0         229    229       0       176    176        W3           0        Il3      ll3    0         8.81    8.81       i8
Opecelr  costs                        227    131       150    2l          a                            10.35  6.56       70    14.06         74
O.taue    of offICI                     5      4         6      1         50                            0.20  0.0        03       0.51       40
aduaomupm
1mdu1cmL ain tuas                     109      2        59      61       179                            5.18  0.12       2.94    3.06       169
ad finflauM
aW _nt to Soils
Labwatwy                            1.                       20                                      0.56                      O.99
kA1dhM  Utinlm                          1      1         2       4        25                            005  0.07        0.11    0.18        28
IquILat                0        4       4      0         8       U        50          0       0.20      0.200            039    0.39         51
TaducaJ ant.tam.    1           5       6      1         a       S        75          0.05    0.26      OJ1   0.01       0.41    o.2         74
ad bflU.bi.
of c ygmul              3    .20       23      3        23      26        aS          0.15    1.01      1.16  0.13      1.17      1.30       89
Sub:oul                         606    142       432    574        105                           28.75  7.10      21.63   28.73       100
from 1.b.1,1984 tm
ad afpojaet                            17                        0                                      0.72 Y                   0
Gad  Ta1                              621                      574       208                           29.47                     28.73      1m
11 1abaory: $0.27 uLUaa
upom: $0.45 ulWm
Somte: App4na1 Report. ag     *tt  Pcs   aqmu ad Deaft Project 0301dn Rq



- 25 -
Table 3.5
OmI   s       mNEA  PHEE      (CITr 95322J
Project F1naitr
Project ompo_ent                         Us$ m1iion ewiaent i/
Mk- - EEC    - BAEA   -OMT
Road Rehabilitation A Mainterim  Plamied  Artual  Plarmd  Actual  Plam1d  Actual  Plumed  Artual
EQuIplllt & spare parts           2.40      5.15   3.50     2.53    2.90      3.60    0.01      0.02
Operati costs (ilCl. materials)   6.50     3.13                     2.20     0.66    5.36      6.98
Euildirg ODsts                                     0.50        0                       0.01        0
Pfchical assistance               2.00      3.39      0     0.38    0.90      1.33    0.16      0.08
& fe    hips
Soil Laboratory                   0.90     0.50                                       0.09      0.06
Qxiakryb-r  au Feasibility Study  1.20     0.28       0      0.73                     0.10      0.01
'mmAL                            13.00    12.45   4.00      3.64    6.00      5.59    5.73      7.15
Devaluatiom currey versus US$                               0.36
Tb be disbursed before end prJ8f            0.55                              0.41              0.06
GRAND TOMAL                      13.00    13.00   4.00      4.00    6.00      6.00    5.73      7.21
1/ Disbured as of Jamuary 1984
M  - US$0.22 for laboratory, US$0.27 for asultats and US$0.06 for equiplnt.
BNEA - US$0.41 for eqtupnt
GWVT - US$0.05 for laboratory and US$0.01 for consultats.
Source: xisultant's Progress Reports and Draft Project Completion Report



- 26 -
Table 5.1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 953-GUI)
Comparisons of Vehicle Operating Coate
Road surface-paved                 Road surface-unpaved
Good    Fair    Poor    V. Poor       Good    Fair    Poor    V. Poor
1978
Car        1.6      1.7     1.9        -          1.9     2.4      2.7      3.1
Van        2.7      3.1     3.6        -          3.5     4.3      5.0      6.0
Truck      9.5    10.3    11.2         -         11.2    13.2    14.6      16.5
(10 ton)
1980
Car        3.82    4.62    5.47    8.00          5.14    6.78    9.40    12.28
Van        5.31    6.18    7.14    9.92          6.68    8.48   11.38    14.62
Truck     15.76   17.38   19.18   24.18         18.38   21.62   26.76    32.80
(8 ton)
Source: Second and Third Highway Appraisal Reports.



- 27 -
Table 5.2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUINEA SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT (CREDIT 953-GUI)
Economic Evaluation - Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Program
Traffic      Traffic       EER          EER
Road Name                      Km    Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal   Reevaluated
_(1978)    (1980/81)
Road Rehabilitation
Gaoual-Telimele-Kindia         251     33          25           8              5
Gaoual-Koundara-Senegal         16     21          25          54!            5
Labe-Seriba                    146     48          50          54a/           32
Labe-Tongue                     81     18          30          54a/           10
Labe-Mali                       45     30          30          54a/           10
Dabola-Faranah                 113     39          30          12             10
Dabola-Dinguiraye               74     31          15           7             negative
Kankan-Siguiri-Mali            203     24          50          13             32
Kankan-Mandiani                 46     18          40           9             22
Total                          975                                            19
average
Mechanized maintenance.
Spot regravelling, grading, etc.        1679 Km
Grading                                  742 km
Patching                               71,810 m2
Economic Analysis for Project
---- VOC Savings ----
Incremental
Cap.Cost b/  Maint.Cost       Rehab.     Maintenance       Total
1980     7.80            -            _              _             _
1981    10.80            -            -              -             -
1982     1.90            0.32         0.41           2.01          2.45
1983     5.90            0.56         2.38           2.31          2.69
1984                     1.19         4.12           5.30          9.42
1985                     1.19         4.29           5.49          9.78
1986                     1.19         3.86           5.68          9.54
1987                     1.19         2.75           2.94          5.69
1988                     1.19         2.82           3.04          5.86
1989                     1.19         2.92           3.15          6.07
1990                     1.19         2.07           3.26          5.33
ERR: 25%
a/ Evaluated as package of roads under the livestock project.
h/ Assuming US$1.0 milliorn in taxes and shadow exchange rate GSY 40 - US$1



814I    '  LIIIVA  Sl _@  h-                                                      E   N   E   GyA   L
FNbRIA                    ~~nlu
rWIMIrOIW5); sAO   _       _            _A
lmmeiA                                           ,~ jI 4..                                                                   >
N.'                                   KoutLdbindo  ; 
d~iNfI  OCd   0~A~"J   'AR
patPSESECNDIGHW->!-f L I- NO  T                                                                                            E R R A   L, 
MM16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I -
PROJECT                                                ','B8i ;"
-Project Road under S0oned HigI.wa Prject (Gravel rnd Ewd l           ;            To;Freetown                         The 'as. dhe bee ws.a
.   *--Pru.-imr,e,nentStudv                                                   -n    -  .          iI, PA,i Be. c                             a sd a
Pro,'ect Rord under Firnt Hl 0 way Projuct (Psudi         :                             .~i--,s: .ds eaCiIu r
_ _Projct Roads under First Hlesia Propect IGmezl)*'  -__                                                              .nlrsrl usua Thle Mat  1a
Tmpoert Corridor                                  mev.aI  Thu derausr
* MlainlDeveio lTPmxet ,tJ                                                                                         u5a~ es t badrq alL
I tini ng Projects                                                I          -                                    cnthrs n  aond b. 0
.  -. Forest                                                                     ,,', -frslas h                                Ff_.  CorpO-
Tropical Fruits                                                   -        i. ' j io  
Xv'":'\''&';' *iwestock Project                                                  C t.                                       enk.r,r '  d4 acc.lno   01
@      ProPosed Bajelte Mining 
NI    Propoted Iron Ore Mining
First Caeory floads                                                                              0      20      t0     eO      E0     100
Road under constructioJn                                                                   >                                         IzOMETERS
8            .-Railroash                                                                                            0
*  .-    Proposed Trnmu-Guimmm, Rai'road_0                                                                          0*0o
*       *nteabnatl Airajori                                                                                                           MILES
-+       Regularly terviced Airlields                                                      -..JX
*- -Intcrnationl Uoundwin 
AfIAN?IC O~~~~~~~~~~~~ffAIA
GooS,                                                          j 
c7ull%



IBRD 14070(PCR 
1      ib)t                       M         A         L       J/b
(             S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
)J .i.i                                                    1.                                I
Kour6ffc ~ ~ ~ ~~~eseouo
100  120  Ja IC                                        / \{5f1h-
E O  E t/    .1 IM
'/}/0
~~~~~~~~~~~u                ,   , 3!  - w
ko Ab.djon
'P.  (                                   ~~~~~~~~~AUGUST 1984






