Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  CUPY
Report No. 2363-GUI
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
August 20, 1979
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guinean Syli (GSy)
US$1.00         =  GSy 20
GSy 1           =  US$0.05
GSy 1,000,000  =  US$50,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                      US Equivalents
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)            2   =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km )  =  0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)             =  2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                =  0.22 Imp. gallons
= 0.26 US gallons
1 kilogram (kg)            =  2.205 pounds
I ton                      =  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
adt       average daily traffic
BADEA     Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
BGCE      Guinean Bank for External Trade
CEBTP     Centre Experimental de Recherches et d'Etudes du Batiment
et des Travaux Publics
COTRA     Road Transport Company
DGRB      Directorate General of Roads and Bridges
EDF       European Development Fund
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOT       Ministry of Transport
MPW       Ministry of Public Works
ONAH      National Fuels Office
ONCGF     Office of Guinean National Railways
ONRR      Road-Rail Office
PRL       Pouvoirs Revolutionnaires Locaux
RCG       Revolutionary Commissariat-General (Province)
TUC       Conakry Urban Transport



FOR OFFIC [AL USE ONLY
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT  SECTOR  . .........................................                             1
A.   The Land  and  the Economy  ................................                             1
B.   The Transport  Network  ...................................                              2
C.   Transport  Policy  ......             ...................... .                           3
D.   Sector Management  and Planning  Issues  ...................                             4
E.   Role of  the World Bank                     ..................................           7
II.   THE HIGHWAY  SUB-SECTOR  ......................................                                9
A.   Road  Infrastructure  ..............................................                     9
B.   Characteristics  and Growth of  Road Traffic  ........... ...                            9
C.   Road Transport  .            ..................................                         10
D.   Administration  ....................................            .............. .        il
E    Staffing  and Training  . ............ .            ...................... .            12
F.   Engineering and  Construction                      ............................         12
G.   Road Rehabilitation  and Maintenance  .....................                             13
H.   Highway  Investment Program  ..............................                             13
t.   Financing  and Revenues  from Road Users                       ..................       15
IIl.   THE PROJECT ..................................................                                18
A.   Project Objectives and Description  ......................                              18
B.   Project Cost and Financing                          ................. .. .......        22
C.   Implementation  ...................................                 .............       25
D.   Procurement  ..............................................                             27
E.   Disbursements  ...               . . . . .. . . .. . . . ......................................... .  27
F.   Project Monitoring  .......  ........................ ... .............                 29
IV.   ECONOMIC  APPRAISAL  . ............  ...... ........ ...............                          30
A.   General  .                     ....................................                     30
B.   Economic  Rate  of Return  and its  Sensitivity  .............                          31
C.   Road Rehabilitation  . ........... ..   .............. ...   ......                     31
D.  Maintenance  . .......               ...  ....... ............   .............  .        33
E.   Project  Beneficiaries                     ...................................          33
F.  Project  Risks  ......... .. ...... .     ... ..   .   .... ...  ...   .                 34
V.    RECOMMENDATIONS  ............................................................                34
This report was prepared by Messrs. P. M. Cadario (Economist) and P. Sooh
(Highway Engineer) on the basis of an appraisal mission in October 1978.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
j of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Cost Estimate
2.  Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program - Outline Terms of
Reference for Consulting Services
3. Equipment
4. Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance: Teams, `Equipment and Costs
5. Outline Terms of Reference: Conakry-Mamou Road Pre-investment Study
6. Design Standards for Classified Roads
7.  National Public Works Laboratory - Outline Terms of Reference for
Consultants' Services
8. Training
9. Economic Appraisal
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAP:   IBRD 14070



REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Land and the Economy
1.01      Guinea has an area of about 246,000 km2 and a population of about
5.0 million growing at 2.9% p.a.. Its excellent natural resources in mining,
for agriculture and for hydro-electric power make it potentially one of the
richest countries in West Africa. The broad range of eco-climatic zones
enables production of a variety of agricultural commodities. Mineral deposits
include bauxite, of which the country is estimated to possess the world's
largest known reserves (about 8 billion tons), and high grade iron ore,
estimated to be over 2 billion tons. Prospects for diamond and uranium
mining and offshore oil exploration are being actively investigated.
1.02      Despite this potential, economic growth has been slow.  After
independence (1958) the Government placed emphasis on developing infrastruc-
ture and mining at the expense of agriculture. Except mining, in which
foreign companies own shares, the Government has nationalized all activities
including commerce, trade and transport. During the period 1967-72, GNP
increased by less than 2.5% p.a. and, because population increased at a faster
rate, per capita GNP decreased slightly. After the start of operations of
two large bauxite mines in 1974, the long period of economic stagnation
ended. Since then, real per capita incomes have increased at an average
annual rate of nearly 7.5%, although they have still not yet reached pre-
independence levels in real terms. By 1977 annual per capita GNP is estimated
to have reached about US$230 but during 1978, growth stagnated because of the
severe drought in 1977-78 and the levelling off of mining output as production
reached full capacity.
1.03      Since independence, the development and the role of the transport
sector in Guinea have been affected by the overall economic stagnation.
The problems and development of the transport system in Guinea must also be
viewed in the socio-political framework where the only political party (Parti
Democratique de Guinee) plays a decisive role, and decisions are often made on
political grounds, irrespective of economic considerations. Reliable informa-
tion on the transport system and commodity flows in Guinea is very limited and
it is therefore difficult to make a comprehensive assessment of the sector.
1.04      Past investments in the transport sector have accounted for about
30% of total public and semi-public expenditure, with efforts concentrated
mainly on developing rail infrastructure to serve mining activities and the
paving of primary roads leading to Conakry, the capital and principal port.
Developing and maintaining the road network to support agricultural and rural
development have suffered. This pattern of development, coupled with an
absence of maintenance of existing infrastructure, left isolated the peri-
pheral areas and the interior from the more develàped coastal zone and
central highlands.



-2-
1.05      Since 1975 there has been an important shift in emphasis in the
country's development objectives. Faced with a sharp decline in agricultural
production for the local market and for export, the Government now places
hîgher prîority on the regeneration of agriculture activities. There is also
the desire to improve regional integration, hurt by the deterioration of the
inter-regional road network. These policies have Important implications for
transport investment strategy. In order to support them, emphasis is now
given to improving maintenance on the primary highway network, together
with the rehabilitation and development of secondary roads. Such a policy
will require a high degree of coordination among the agricultural, mining,
and transport sectors, and it will place an increasing burden upon planning
and managing capabilities.
B.   The Transport Network (Map IBRD 14070)
1.06      Guinea's transport system consists of about 14,000 km of classified
primary, secondary, and feeder roads, 1,100 km of railways distributed in four
separate lines, two deep water ports and ten airfields. The central Conakry
- Mamou - Dabola - Kankan corridor has traditionally been the main artery of
the country. It consists of a 600 km railway built 70 years ago, paralleled
by a highway which, from Mamou onwards, is a gravel road. Over the years
railway traffic has fallen; consequently, the railway's ability to maintain
and renew equipment and infrastructure has also declined. Traffic was only
12,500 tons in 1977 (about 27,000 tons was recorded in 1973), and 417,000
passengers, of which over 90 percent were commuters. The European Development
Fund (EDF) is financing a feasibility study and detailed engineering for the
improvement of the Mamou-Kankan road to paved standard, and an EDF consultant
recently reviewed the status and prospects of the railway. A secondary route
branches southeast from Mamou to Kissidougou and eventually to N'zerekore, and
a parallel northern route leads eastward from the port of Kamsar. The network
of roads and railways is adequate in relation to population distribution and
economic potential.
1.07      Of the existing classified road network, some 7,000 km are
interregional roads. Much of the primary network has been paved, the length
of paved roads having increased rapidly from 190 km in 1967 to over 1,000 kms
at present. However, the remaining network consists of extremely poor gravel
and earth roads. With a lack of adequate maintenance, the road network
deteriorates rapidly. Chapter 2 describes the highway subsector.
1.08      Reflecting the country's economic activity, major transport flows
occur on the other railway lines linking the coast with specific mining
developments.  Mineral railways include three separate lines:  (i) Conakry-
Kindia (105 kms); (ii) Kamsar-Sangaredi (136 kms), opened in August 1973 to
link the Kamsar deep water port with the Boke bauxite project; and (iii) the
145 km Fria railway inaugurated in 1959 between the FRIGUIA alumina plant and
the port of Conakry.



- 3 -
1.09       The port of Conakry handles the bulk of Guinea's foreign trade apart
from mineral traffie at Kamsar and small amounts of commercial traffic using
the Liberian ports of Buchanan and Monrovia. Port infrastructure at Conakry
is poorly maintained. It includes four bulk berths for bauxite, alumina and
petroleum products, four general cargo berths, and facilities for fishing
and banana traffic. Despite generally adequate berth facilities, traffic in
recent years has declined. General cargo traffic is currently about 280,000
tons per year.
1.10       Internal air and river transport play only a minor role in freight
movement.  However, air passenger services currently serve a very useful
purpose for a number of regional centers which are isolated from the rest
of the country because of long distances.
1.11       Although total transport demand has declined over the past ten
years, due to a decline in agricultural production and exports, a major
increase was registered in 1977/78. This was due mainly to an announced
liberalization of economic activity and the return of many Guineans living
abroad. The decline in agricultural exports has continued, however, and with
the exception of mineral traffic and small but increasing volumes of goods
handled directly by the private sector, transport demand for official goods in
1977 was about 135 million ton-km. Prospects for increases in transport
demand appear good given the importance attached to the regeneration of
agricultural production. Together with the probable continued increase in
imports of equipment and capital goods, a medium-term annual growth rate of
about 5% would appear reasonable for freight traffic. Uniform rates of 1.8
Sylis per ton-km were applied to both road and rail transport until January 1,
1977; road tariffs were increased to GSy 2.5 per ton-km (US$0.12) and rail
tariffs were not changed, reflecting a lower quality of service compared to
road transport (paras. 2.06-2.09).
C. Transport Policy
1.12       In the past, the Governnent has been preoccupied with meeting the
needs of the mining sector, a course which it regarded as having the most
significant impact on the country's economy through the creation of foreign
exchange resources and the generation of Government revenue and capital for
development. Over the past fifteen years, the Goverment has attached con-
siderable importance to upgrading the links from the coast to the interior,
with the main focus on major roads leading to the country's two principal
ports. Attention has also been given to upgrading key secondary road links
feeding into the central Conakry-Mamou axis. Insufficient attention was given
in the past to preserving the existing road network, a vital element in
efforts to better exploit the country's rich agricultural potential.
1.13       However, the Governinent has now realized that any lasting solution
to the economic problems must include better exploitation of the country's
agricultural potential, a strategy which will have more far-reaching geo-
graphic effects than the enclave impact of the mining development schemes.



- 4 -
To meet this objective, the Governnent would have to increase incentives to
producers and improve agricultural extension services, marketing, and transport
facilities to support agricultural development programs. While there has been
some progress, major changes are still required in agricultural development
policy in order to support the regeneration of food crop production for the
local market and of cash crops for export. To support such an overall policy,
individual transport projects should be identified and designed to support
specific mining and agricultural development schemes.
1.14      A road paving program (para. 2.23) as a whole must be considered
premature in view of the generally low traffic volumes on the primary road
network.  The Government's recognition of this issue marks the beginning of
a more appropriate strategy for the road sector. The change in emphasis began
in 1975 with the Government's acceptance of IDA assistance in the rehabilita-
tion and improved maintenance of some 2,500 kms of primary interregional roads
(para 2.18) i.e., towards a strategy for road improvement and maintenance.
This change reflects a combination of three important factors: (i) the
difficulty in obtaining foreign aid for road paving projects; (ii) increasing
Government acceptance of road maintenance as a crucial issue; and (iii) the
prospects for extended IDA assistance for road rehabilitation and maintenance
activities.
1.15      Although there is evidence of an improved policy in the road sector,
the Government's long term strategy and investment program for railways are
not yet clearly known. The main medium-term problem concerns the future of
the Conakry-Kankan railway, for which the Government has an on-going program
of equipment renewal, rail replacement and signalization on which about US$18
million has already been spent of a total program of US$35 million. However,
the railway currently plays an insignificant and declining role in the trans-
port sector. Despite a long-standing proposal to rehabilitate the railway
and extend it into Mali, the future of the line appears questionable given
the current low and declining traffic volumes and aging facilities.
D. Sector Management and Planning Issues
1.16      There are many ministries sharing responsibility for transport
sector planning and management. The Ministry of Transport (MOT)is charged
with coordination and regulation of the sector and planning for ports,
railways and airports, while the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) looks after
planning and execution of road construction and maintenance. The plans are
then reviewed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry of
Planning and Cooperation (MPC) which coordinates transport investments
(usually involving foreign financing) with those of other sectors of the
economy. Final approval is given by the President.



- 5 -
1.17      Weak transport planning and management capability at all levels is
the central problem in the transport sector and is responsible for the absence
of sound guidelines and well-defined programs for future investment. Neither
MOT nor the Ministry of Planning can analyze investment plans or ensure
overall coordination in the transport sector. Moreover, investment planning
by MOT is discharged through the various bodies directly responsible for
transport management including the railway and the road transport organiza-
tion, and very little arbitration takes place before the proposals reach MPC.
1.18      1973/4-1977/8 Development Plan.  The lack of qualified planning
staff, the constraints imposed by the socio-political system, and the absence
of a specific transport policy were reflected in the overly ambitious 1973/4-
1977/8 Five Year Development Plan. The plan proposed a total investment in
the transport sector of GS7,907 billion (about US$386 million), about 40% of
total public investment. Plan realization was low, with little being achieved
prior to the suspension of the Plan in 1974, when the goals became unrealistic
and the economy began to undergo substantial change. Of the seven major
paving projects, only one, the Kissidougou-Kankan road, was completed. The
main reasons for slow implementation of the plan, particularly in the trans-
port sector, are shortfalls in foreign participation, delays in project
preparation, and lengthy negotiations due to the magnitude of individual
projects, particularly mining-related infrastructure (paras. 1.25, 1.28).
The highway subsector projects are described in paras. 2.22 to 2.25.
1.19      In addition to the management problems mentioned above, there now
appears to be a lack of coordination in road/rail traffic following the aboli-
tion of the Office Nationale Rail-Route (ONRR) in November 1975. ONRR was
responsible for transport coordination and formerly allocated traffic between
road and rail according to available capacity. The railway - ONCFG - is now
an autonomous enterprise, while road transport was reorganized in 1975 under
a new trucking agency called COTRA (Cooperatives des Transporteurs), with a
fleet numbering about 500 trucks. In addition to a national COTRA, which is
charged with moving goods from Conakry to the interior, a trucker's coopera-
tive in each of the seven provinces of Guinea is responsible for intra- and
inter-regional freight movement by road. The lack of coordination between
road and rail is exacerbated by the independence of the seven regional COTRAs.
As a result of this new organization's intervention with its lack of central
coordination, and given the poor quality of service, rail traffic suffered an
even sharper decline.
1.20      Feeder Road Development.  With the neglect of the primary and second-
ary road network, even less attention has been given to the improvement and
maintenance of feeder roads, which were omitted from the five year Development
Plan. Although no inventory exists, it is estimated that in addition to the
classified road network maintained by the Directorate General of Roads and
Bridges (DGRB) in MPW, there are some 6,000 km of tracks for which maintenance
is nominally the responsibility of the Pouvoirs Revolutionnaires Locaux (PRL)
at the village level. As villagers are mainly occupied with subsistence



- 6 -
farming and occasionally with very limited commercial production and with
the limited financial resources of the PRLs, very little maintenance is
effectively carried out. Hence, the resulting problems of rural transport
have figured among the obstacles to increased agricultural production.
1.21      While strengthening maintenance of rural roads in key agricultural
areas seems to be a priority, action on feeder roads independently of a major
shift in agricultural policy would likely have little effect on expanding
rural production, and in the short term, feeder roads should be constructed
only as part of specific coordinated rural development projects.
1.22      Future Transport Investment Proposals.  The completion of the
program foreseen under the 1973/4-1977/8 plan still remains a priority for
the Governnent.  But no firm plans now exist for continued upgrading of the
road network. Among new road projects proposed by the Government is upgrad-
ing the Kankan-Mandiana - Mali border road (180 km). While the project would
serve an agricultural area east of Kankan, it is primarily of interest to Mali
in that it would ultimately provide it with an additional international access
route. The European Development Fund (EDF) is financing a feasibility study
of this road.
1.23      The Government also proposes to continue a program of investments
in the Conakry-Kankan railway and has solicited the aid of the EDF. It would
involve continued emphasis on replacement of 25 kg with 30-38 kg rail and the
reballasting of track, together with a minor program of equipment renewal and
repair. The current low traffic volumes are not sufficient to justify new
investment. It is evident that the Government has no intentions of phasing
out the railway; moreover, the future of the railway must be considered in
the light of whether new lines are to develop to serve possible mining devel-
opments in the interior and how such needs can be reconciled with the Govern-
ment's desire to create a national railway system based on the Trans-Guinean
concept.
1.24      The proposed Trans-Guinean railway project is the single most
important national transport project and has been under consideration by the
Government for many years. It lies outside of the framework of transport
investments foreseen under the Development Plan. The Trans-Guinean combines
a 1,200 km railway linking the capital with the South-East forest region and
a new deep water port at Conakry. Total investment is estimated at some US$2.5
billion. A first phase would be relatively modest, involving the construction
of a 12-18 km section linking the proposed Nimba iron ore mine in South-East
Guinea with an existing mineral railway in Liberia. The second stage would
involve a massive investment package to link Conakry with the Simandou mining
development in South-East Guinea (760 km), this latter development being the
main justification for the project. It would also involve the construction
of spur lines (250 km) to proposed bauxite mining developments at Tougue and
Dabola and the construction of a new deep water port at Conakry. Subsequent
phases call for completion of the rail link between Conakry and Bambafouga



- 7 -
(290 km). Economic and technical feasibility studies of the project were
completed in late 1975 with financial assistance from the Canadian Interna-
tional Development Agency. However, the financial and economic analyses
indicate that the Trans-Guinean is not justified.
1.25      While there is no master plan for the development of the commercial
port of Conakry, the Government is proposing a major deep water mineral port
in the existing port location and to undertake a large fishing port. The deep
water port is associated with the Trans-Guinean railway proposal and repre-
sents a very ambitious undertaking ultimately permitting access to 250,000 ton
vessels; the total cost of the project could be as much as US$500 million, and
is clearly only a long term possibility. Proposals for a new fishing port
probably are more realistic as present facilities for fishing vessels within
the port of Conakry are cramped and would be unsatisfactory for the increase
in the catch which the Government wishes to achieve. The principal problem is
the choice of a suitable site for constructing a fishing port at a reasonable
cost because of the various restrictions imposed by the existing commercial
port, naval base and mineral berths. However, the economic feasibility of
such a large catch (about 100,000 t per year) and an analysis of the related
marketing aspect still have to be done. Engineering studies will also be
required in order to find the least cost solution, which may be in the order
of US$10 to 15 million.
1.26      In addition to a need to continue renewal of cargo handling equip-
ment, the medium-term requirements of the port of Conakry, as indicated
by the Government, include the purchase of a trailing-suction dredger for
construction work and dredging of the port access and basin, and new navi-
gational aids and equipment for the installation and servicing of buoys and
off-shore navigational facilities. While there is little justification for
the acquisition of the dredger, as it is probable that major dredging works
can be effected at much lower cost by specialized firms, improved naviga-
tional aids represent a real investment need for improved operations and
safety in the port of Conakry.
1.27      Finally, relatively ambitious plans exist for the development of
coastal shipping and transport on the Niger and Milo rivers. However, present
low traffic volumes and the prospect of improved maintenance on the road net-
work in the coastal region offer little justification for investments in
coastal and river shipping, given the short transport distances involved and
the more flexible services which could be provided by improved road transport.
E.  Role of the World Bank
1.28      Past World Bank operations in the transport sector have financed
the extensive rail, port, urban and institutional infrastructure needed for
the Boke mining project and a three-year highway rehabilitation and main-
tenance program (Credit 596-GUI) (paras. 2.18-2.21).



- 8 -
1.29      OED issued Project Performance Audit Report No. 1589 on the Guinea
Boke Bauxite Project (Loans SI-GUI, 557-GUI and 766-GUI) in May 1977. The
loans provided a total of US$75.2 million to help finance the infrastructure
for a bauxite mining project, including port and railway facilities, staff
housing and general services for the town-sites. Although the first bauxite
shipment took place 13 months late, the project is considered a success given
its complexity and the many extraneous circumstances affecting project imple-
mentation.  Its retrospective economic rate of return to Guinea is 32%.  The
Government was critical of the Bank's role in limiting the extent of the
townsite and services; however, these changes would only have increased
project costs by about 17% without improving the viability of the project.
1.30      With increasing Government recognition of the problems of agricul-
tural development and recent evidence of a change in transport policy, parti-
cularly with regard to supporting objectives in the rural sector, the prospects
for defining a well-tailored transport investment program are promising. The
financial resources necessary for transport sector investments are likely to
surpass the resources available from the IDA, and other sources of external
finance will have to be found. IDA strategy in the sector aims at a better
orientation of investment and at helping the Government develop its capacity
to plan, prepare and execute sound transport sector projects suitable for
financing by external sources. Consistent with the Government's desire to
mobilize skilled Guinean personnel to execute development projects, IDA
operations in the transport sector also emphasize practical training efforts
to improve project implementation, management and planning capabilities and
data collection.
1.31      IDA's highway sector strategy, with which the Government is in basic
agreement, aims at improving and modernizing Guinea's road infrastructure
while creating in MPW a technically competent sector institution, capable of
the full spectrum of highway operations. IDA's First Highway Project (Credit
596-GUI, FY76, US$14.0 million) is nearing completion and helped rehabilitate
and begin to maintain about 2500 km of high-priority national roads. While it
attempted primarily to remove the serious physical obstacles to transport, the
project began to develop basic technical and managerial skills. The proposed
Second Highway Project continues these efforts. In addition to rehabilitating
a further 1,500 km of laterite roads, it will expand road maintenance, extend-
ing operations to the network rehabilitated under the two projects, and
provide the mechanical fleet, training and management experience required to
continue these operations efficiently after the project period. The project
also includes setting up in MPW a national soils laboratory and a studies and
programming unit, two sector institutions needed if Guineans are to acquire
and successfully apply the engineering and technical skills necessary to plan,
design and implement transport projects. For a possible Third Highway Project,
the Government and IDA are considering the reconstruction of one of Guinea's
main highways, using the planning methods to be developed under the Second
Project to choose, using economic criteria, from among several completed and
on-going highway preinvestment studies (including the one proposed for this
project). A necessary prerequisite for such construction, however, is demon-
strated commitment to and competence at road maintenance.



- 9 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECTOR
A.   Road Infrastructure
2.01      The classified road network totals some 14,000 km and conrs ts of
paved roads, about 1,087 km or 8% of the total network, and gravel alid earth
roads totalling 12,926 km or 92%. This network links the headquarters of the
Revolutionary Commissariats-General (RCG) (or provinces) to each other and
to the capital of the country, Conakry, and provides means of communication
between RCG and their respective regions.
2.02      The growth of the classified road network is given below:
km
1967        1975          1978
Paved roads                           188        1,056        1,141
Gravel and earth roads             12,438       12,207       12,926
TOTAL                     12,626       13,263        14,067
During the three-year period 1975-78, paved roads increased by 85 km,
representing the first section of the Kissidougou-Kankan road paved by a
Guineo-Cuban team. The 720 km of new gravel and earth roads represent new
links to the recently created administrative regions.
2.03      While the paved roads are constructed to design standards estab-
lished by Directorate General of Roads and Bridges (DGRB) of the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW), gravel and earth roads have varying characteristics,
usually below DGRB standards. The condition of the road system, which was
poor before the effective start of the First Highway Project, has started to
improve (para. 2.18), and the proposed project will continue these efforts.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.04      The last comprehensive inventory of the motor vehicle fleet was
carried out at the end of 1974 when the Government decided to re-register
all motor vehicles in the country. The fleet then numbered 8,080. The Road
Transport Service registers new vehicles but has only very recently begun to
collect information on the withdrawals: assuming an average life span for
each category of vehicle, the motor vehicle fleet is now estimated at about
19,000 or about one vehicle per 310 inhabitants, a lower vehicle density
than any of the neighboring coastal countries. The table below lists the
new vehicle registrations for 1975-78, the exact vehicle fleet at the end of
1974, and its estimated size for 1979.



- 10 -
VEHICLE FLEET
NEW REGISTRATIONS        Life Span    Actual Estimated
1975    1976    1977    1978'- (Years)        1974    1979
Passenger cars  2,157   1,253   1,705   2,000         8         4,747   11,600
Vans               263     105      192     200       7           855    1,800
Trucks             865     359      702     350       6         2,310    4,400
Buses               58      57       25       14      8           168      350
TOTAL          3,343   1,774   2,624   2,564                  8,080   18,200
1/   Based on six months' registration statistics, not including vehicles in
process of being registered.
2.05      The motor vehicle fleet has thus doubled in the last five years
(or 19% p.a.). This increase is due to the opening of the borders with
neighboring countries in 1977 and the subsequent return of many Guineans
resident abroad. During that period, passenger car growth was about 21%
p.a. Although there is a lack of coherent data on fuel consumption to
confirm the fleet growth, it could be reasonably assumed that the growth of
the vehicle fleet will continue at the above rate in the next few years if
borders with neighboring countries remain open, as they have recently.
C.   Road Transport
2.06      Public road transport is shared between state-owned enterprises -
the Road Transport Company (COTRA) and commercial enterprises - and numerous
individual transporters, the latter often operating under contract to the
State. The transport by road of long distance freight including all export/
import traffic, is officially the monopoly of COTRA, a new organization which
was formerly the road transport division of the Office National Rail/Route
(ONRR) (para. 1.22). The COTRA truck fleet increased in 1975 from about
150 to 350 trucks following an important program of vehicle purchases. By
mid-1977, its fleet numbered about 500 with an average capacity of about 8
tons. State-owned agencies are also gradually building up their fleet and
increasing their share of road freight. Some competition exists among private
transporters for long-distance traffic, but they appear to be increasingly
limited to rural transport and local collection/distribution traffic. On the
whole, however, the new regional organization of road transport provides a
relatively adequate system for the current volume of long distance freight.
2.07      Total transport demand suddenly increased by some 20% in 1974/75
as a result of increased imports of capital goods and equipment for the rural
sector. Much of this increase has been accounted for by COTRA which now
handles over half of total transport demand measured in ton-km. Roads now
carry about 80-85% of total ton-km transported. It is estimated that the



- il -
COTRAs directly handle about 45% of the total by road and about 60% when
account is taken of sub-contracting to private transporters.  Freig't rates
are set at a high level of GSy 2.5 per ton-km (US$0.12). As a result, the
financial results of the COTRAs are satisfactory, with net revenues after
depreciation) representing about 30% of total revenues, even though reported
fleet utilization per month is low.
2.08      The state transport enterprise Transports Urbains de Conakry (TUC)
is attempting to increase its share of passenger transport from private
transporters who still handle most of the passenger transport in the country.
Passenger tariffs are set at GSy 1.0 per kilometer in small vans on paved
roads and GSy 0.8 per kilometer in trucks on earth roads. These rates can
be undercut by competition, and penalties are strict for exceeding them.
Passenger transport is a popular business, especially among newly returned
Guineans, and passenger demand is high.
2.09      Government policy in the development of transport fleet is aimed
at increasing the share of State-owned vehicles. This policy is particularly
reflected through vehicle import restrictions and high tariffs. In late
1977, when the Government allowed expatriate Guineans to import their
vehicles owned abroad, roughly 65% of new vehicle registrations in 1978 were
to private owners, and about 80% were subsequently licensed for passenger
transport. MPW is charged with registration and technical inspection of
vehicles. Maximum loads are specified by law at 10 tons per axle, although
a 13 ton limit is envisaged for new roads. Enforcement of weight regulations
is sporadic, and highly overloaded trucks can be seen everywhere. In 1976
MPW issued a decree restricting the use of heavy vehicles on unpaved roads
during rainy periods and reducing the maximum axle load on such roads during
the rainy season to 5 tons. It has begun to take the measures necessary to
enforce these regulations.
D.   Administration
2.10      The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) has a division in each of the
seven RCGs with 33 subdivisions, one in each region. Each RCG has an
inspector who supervises the activities of the subdivisions within that
zone. All inspectors report to an Inspector General who in turn reports to
the Minister. Each subdivision is headed by an engineer with an average of
60 people under him. The main task of the subdivision is the maintenance of
roads and the construction and maintenance of small bridges and ferries.
2.11      MPW'S Directorate General of Roads and Bridges (DGRB) has overall
responsibility for the administration, engineering, construction, and
maintenance of the national road system. Instructions regarding maintenance
and rehabilitation are given by the Director-General of DGRB either to the
Director of Road Maintenance or to the inspectors of the zones or directly
to the subdivision chiefs. In practice decision-making within the Ministry
is highly centralized in the Minister's office.



- 12 -
2.12      To carry out the First Highway Project, the Minister created an
organization within DGRB. It is staffed with the qualified personnel of
DGRB and is functioning satisfactorily; its success was assured as long as
the project was confined to road rehabilitation and maintenance. However,
as the proposed project will also include strengthening of the planning
and design capacities of DGRB, rehabilitation of the National Public Works
Laboratory, and preinvestment studies for the reconstruction of the Conakry-
Mamou road, it now affects all the major areas of DGRB. MPW has decided to
create within DGRB a Directorate of Road Maintenance and Equipment (which
would be responsible for all of the road rehabilitation and maintenance
operations) and a design and planning office.
E.   Staffing and Training
2.13      DGRB has about 3000 employees, including about 95 engineers, 225
technicians, 650 mechanics, operators and drivers, and 2,000 skilled and
unskilled laborers, distributed among the head office in Conakry, seven
MRDs, and 33 subdivisions, most of whom are limited by the lack of equipment
and tools. The First Highway Project occupies 540 (or 18%) of DGRB personnel.
2.14      Most of the engineers have been trained in the Institut Poly-
technique of Conakry, and some were educated abroad. All technicians are
trained in the Ecole Nationale des Arts et Metiers of Conakry. The educa-
tion imparted to these students has been theoretical due to the lack of
training equipment and teachers with broad practical experience. Although
there are many talented mechanics in the country, they are mainly self-taught,
and their knowledge in proper equipment maintenance and repair is only
superficial. Practical training of DGRB staff, started in the First Highway
Project, will continue under the proposed project (paras. 3.12, 3.14, and
3.18) and will include fellowships for training some engineers and techni-
cians abroad.
F.   Engineering and Construction
2.15      With the help of the technical assistance provided under the First
Highway Project, DGRB developed standards for road design and the rehabili-
tation of existing roads. They are shown in Annex 6. The standards are
realistic and conform to those in neighboring countries.
2.16      The engineering group of DGRB was equipped under the First Highway
Project, but the project's emphasis on the execution of road rehabilitation
works limited the training that could be accomplished.  With increasing
works of improvement and construction, demand for more extensive engineering
is increasing, and DGRB intends to continue to strengthen its planning and
design capacity. The proposed project supports this objective (para. 3.11).
2.17      With the exception of the Kissidougou-Kankan road (190 km), which
was paved by a Guineo-Cuban team, no construction works have been carried
out since 1975. Prior to 1975, improvement and construction works were
undertaken by foreign contractors, usually under contractor-financing



- 13 -
arrangements, most recently the Kissidougou-Gueckedou road (85 km), by
Entreprise Jean Lefebvre (France). The Government sees the project's heavy
rehabilitation brigades as a possible basis for a state-owned construction
firm operating on commercial principles and practices. Consultants under
the project will examine the feasibility of such an organization.
G.   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
2.18      Maintenance of the road network has greatly improved since 1977,
when a three-year rehabilitation and maintenance program was effectively
begun under the First Highway Project (Credit 596-GUI, FY 76, US$14.0 million).
Under that project, 1,445 km of high priority gravel and earth roads were
selected for rehabilitation. The project also initiated maintenance on 2,491
km of high priority roads including 1,445 km of gravel roads to be rehabilitated
and 1,046 km of paved roads. However, the programmed resurfacing of 300 km of
paved roads was not carried out, since the degradation of the paved network
was higher than estimated at appraisal, and the maintenance effort had to
concentrate on patching operations.
2.19      Under the First Highway project, five mobile regravelling brigades
were created to carry out the rehabilitation works. The brigades are pro-
ducing good quality rehabilitation at an average of about 550 m of road
per day per brigade for a total production of about 600 km per year. The
backlog maintenance of paved roads is satisfactorily carried out by four
mobile patching brigades and one resurfacing brigade. The resurfacing brigade
also performs patching (para. 2.18). Day-to-day maintenance is carried out on
paved and gravel roads by labor gangs from DGRB's 33 subdivisions, of which 21
were also supplied with equipment. This equipment is well-adapted to the
rehabilitation and maintenance works and is being properly maintained. Four
workshops (Conakry, Mamou, Kankan, and N'zerekore) were built and equipped.
2.20      The equipment is well utilized:  the average utilization of a
bulldozer is 1,500 hours/year, a grader 1,400, and a truck runs an average
of 40,000 km a year. At this rate the equipment will need continued replace-
ment at an estimated yearly cost of about US$1.5 million, starting in 1981,
the second year of execution of the proposed project. IDA would finance
the first replacement tranche to sustain the output of the heavy rehabilita-
tion brigades (paras. 3.04-3.05). A financial mechanism to transfer this
responsibility for equipment replacement to the Government during the project
is proposed below in paras. 2.29 to 2.31.
H.   Highway Investment Program
2.21      In the 1973-75 period, highway construction expenditures averaged
GSy 370 million per year (approximately US$18 million). Upgrading works
carried out since 1973/74 included rehabilitation of the Kamsar-Gaoual road
(400 km), including paving of 52 km between Kamsar and Boke, paving of the
Kissidougou-Gueckedou road (85 km) and paving of the Kissidougou-Kankan road
(190 km) which is underway.



14 -
2.22      Of the total 2,500 km road improvement program foreseen under the
1973/74-1977/78 Development Plan, less than 600 km will have been completed
during the Plan period. The completion of the remaining program still remains
a priority for the Government. The Government has recently acknowledged
that transport sector investment should be considered in light of economic
criteria and the transport needs of other productive sectors: the proposed
project supports this goal (para. 3.19).
Status of Road Improvement Program under 1973/74-1977/78 Plan /a
Length (km)
Item               Completed /a   Deleted   Remaining   Initial Total
Kamsar-Mali                    237             -         300           537
Kissidougou-N'zerekore
Liberia Border                85 /b         -          315 /d        400
Mamou-Kankan-Siguiri            -             133 /c     400 /e        533
Kissidougou-Kankan-
N'zerekore                    85            360 /c                   445
Labe-Mali-Lebekere              -              -         154           154
Labe-Tougue-Dabola                            250 /c      -            250
Dubreka-Boke                                   -         228 /f        228
407            743      1,397         2,547
/a   As of mid-1978.
/b   Paving completed between Kissidougou and Gueckedou.
/c   Sections deleted from program:  Kankan-Siguiri (133 km);
Kankan-N'zerekore (360 km);
and Labe-Tougue-Dabola (250 km).
/d   Under study:  Gueckedou-Macenta-Nzerekore-Liberia Border (300 km).
/e   Under study:  Mamou-Dabola-Kankan (320 km) and Kankan-Mandiana-Mali
Border.
/f   Study nearing completion.
Source:   DGRB.
2.23      Possibly two projects may be justified for upgrading to paved
standard in the medium term: Dubreka-Boke (228 km) and Gueckedou-N'zerekore
(250 km). With the bauxite mining activities at Boke, the alumina plant
at Fria, and modest agricultural potential in the coastal area near Boffa,
the Dubreka-Boke road improvement might prove to be an attractive investment
proposal. The feasibility study, which has not yet been finalized, raised
questions concerning the immediate priority of the investment. Already,
after its rehabilitation under the First Highway Project, traffic has risen
on the Dubreka-Tanene-Fria section. Engineering of the road and a bridge
crossing of the Fatala River, financed by the Kuwait Fund, will be completed
in 1979.



- 15 -
2.24      The Gueckedou-N'zerekore road would complete a paved highway link
between Conakry and the rich southeastern region, an area which has important
agricultural and forestry potential, combined with the favorable medium-term
prospects of developing the Nimba iron ore deposits. The road was rehabili-
tated under the First Highway Project, and an 80% increase in traffic has
already occurred. The Saudi Fund financed a feasibility study and engineering
for its upgrading to paved standard, and is considering helping finance the
project.
2.25      Pre-investment studies for the Mamou-Dabola-Kankan and Kankan-
Mandiana-Mali border roads began in early 1979, financed by the European
Development Fund (para. 1.22). The proposed project includes pre-investment
studies for the Conakry-Mamou road, as well, (paras. 3.16-3.18) so that by
early 1981, then, the Government would have in hand five feasibility studies
which could form the basis for a medium-term highway investment program.
I.   Financing and Revenues from Road Users
2.26      Total highway expenditures from 1970 to 1975 averaged about GSy 440
million per year (US$22 million) of which 85% was for new construction.
Road construction was financed by the public investment budget, usually
through suppliers' credits provided by foreign contractors.
2.27      Road users contribute substantially to Government revenues through
annual vehicle registration and inspection fees, transport licenses and
import duties and taxes on vehicles and fuel. Estimates indicate that total
revenue from these sources totalled about GSy 500 million (US$25.0 million)
in 1977, a portion of which might be devoted to highway maintenance needs
(para. 2.31), and to complement the external resources needed to finance new
highway investment to support Guinea's considerable economic potential.
Road User Revenues (GSy million)
1973/74       1975       1976       1977
Registration and road licenses       5.0          5.0       3.6        6.1
Tax on Fuel /a                     120.0        453.2     454.4      488.6
Import taxes on vehicles             8.9        n.a.       15.0       20.0
Total                  133.9        458.2     473.0      514.7
/a   Estimates based on petroleum product imports used in road transport
and unit customs and excise duties.
Source:   Ministry of Finance, ONAH, Customs Service and mission estimates.
2.28      From the revenues, it is clear that there is considerable scope for
increasing funds devoted to highway maintenance. But with the State owning
a large proportion of the vehicle fleet, the State would carry the bulk of
road user taxes itself should a conventional earmarking scheme be adopted.
These questions will be discussed during implementation of the Second



- 16 -
Highway Project as part of IDA's on-going dialogue with the Government over
fiscal and monetary policy. Attention will be foeussed first on the alloca-
tion of funds for road maintenance and equipment replacement, and at negotia-
tions, the Government agreed to the financial mechanism outlined below.
2.29      An estimate of the funds required to set up and continue road
rehabilitation and maintenance operations in the context of the proposed
project, and the proposed financing plan, are given in the table below:
US$ millioL/-
Project Period
1980    1981    1982    1983
Costs
Wages                              1.0      1.0      1.1     1.3
Equipment and spare parts          5.2      2.1      1.5     1.5
Consulting services                0.9      1.0      1.2      --
Materials and supplies /2          4.3      4.7      5.3     2.6 /3
Workshops                          0.4      0.1       --    __
11.8/4   8.9/4   9.1/4   5.4/4
Financing
Government                         2.0      3.0      4.0     5.4
Donors                             9.8      5.9      5.1      --
11.8     8.9      9.1     5.4
/1   Current prices and 1979 exchange rate, all figures rounded.
/2   Including taxes on non-exempt items.
/3   To continue operating MPW's fleet to maintain about 5000 km of roads
rehabilitated under First and Second Highway Projects.
/4   Excluding civil service salaries, about US$2.0 million annually.
The Government will continue to pay wages for routine maintenance, civil
service salaries, all local costs for materials and supplies, and all taxes
on non-exempt items. Gradually, over the project period, they would take
over donor-financed items:  the remainder of the operating costs for routine
maintenance, the cost of spare parts and equipment replacement, and finally
all capital costs for rehabilitation and periodic maintenance. At the end



- 17 -
of the project, the rehabilitation of Guinea's high-priority network would
largely be completed. Resources would then be turned to routine and periodic
maintenance, redeploying the DGRB equipment fleet. A report, to be prepared
by DGRB with the help of consultants (Annex 2), will describe the continua-
tion of the operations begun under the two IDA projects, including a schedule
of annual acquisitions of equipment and spare parts.
2.30      To help expand routine maintenance over Guinea's priority road net-
work, and to continue and reinforce the institution-building efforts begun
under the First Highway Project, IDA would help finance, on a declining basis,
the recurrent costs of routine maintenance. The Government will expand its
funding each year, so that by 1983 (the year following project completion), it
will be financing all wages and operating costs. An estimated US$5.4 million
in 1979 dollars will be needed annually to continue operating MPW's fleet to
maintain the roads rehabilitated under IDA's two highway projects. This
amount includes US$3.9 million equivalent for materials and supplies and for
wages, and US$1.5 million in foreign exchange for the replacement of equipment
and for maintaining adequate stocks of spare parts (para. 2.31). At negotia-
tions, the Government agreed to provide, annually beginning at completion of
the project in 1983, the equivalent of US$3.2 million for operating expenses
and to adjust this amount (which is expressed in 1979 dollars) as appropriate
to reflect changes in the cost of equipment, fuel, materials, and wages. The
disbursement mechanism under the proposed project (para. 3.28) moves gradually
to this increased level of support, since IDA's contribution to routine
maintenance will be gradually reduced during the project and transferred to
the Government. In project year one, (PY1) (1980), IDA would finance the
entire foreign cost of the greatly expanded routine maintenance program,
reducing its share to two-thirds in PY2 (1981) and one-third in PY3 (1982).
2.31      In 1982 (the third year of the project) the Government should
begin to allocate about US$1.5 million annually in foreign exchange for
maintaining adequate stocks of spare parts and replacing highway maintenance
equipment. Guinea's scarcity of foreign exchange and the often cumbersome
administrative controls over imports, even of essential goods, require that
a special mechanism be set up to ensure the timely availability of foreign
exchange for these purchases. Under IDA's First Power Engineering (Credit
S22-GUI) and Water Supply and Sanitation (Credit 870-GUI) Projects the
Government created special foreign exchange accounts for this purpose in the
Guinean Bank for External Trade (BGCE). As it is not certain that the
identical import licensing mechanism would be appropriate for a Ministry,
the Government agreed at negotiations that, on the basis of its experience
under these first two projects, it would propose a suitable mechanism for
the Ministry of Public Works, submitting its proposal to IDA by December 31,
1980. Submission of the procurement plan for equipment and spare parts,
agreement with IDA on a workable foreign exchange allocation mechanism, and
actions to make it operational, will be conditions for disbursement for the
US$1.5 million tranche of equipment to be ordered in mid-1981 to replace
equipment purchased under the First Highway Project, which by that time
would have reached the end of its useful life (para. 2.20).



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives and Description
3.01      The project is conceived as the second step of a long-term program,
begun in 1976 with IDA's help, to provide an adequate and properly maintained
road infrastructure to support Guinea's economic development. Specifically,
the project continues and virtually completes the rehabilitation of the high-
priority primary and secondary roads, extends and reinforces highway mainte-
nance over this network, and prepares the way for further road development
by improving the sectoral planning and execution capacity of the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW).
3.02      The project consists of:
(a)  a second three-year program of road rehabilitation (1,548 km)
and maintenance (4,622 km) including:
(i)  purchase of additional highway and workshop equipment
and spare parts, materials and supplies for the opera-
tions included in the project, and rehabilitation of
offices and workshops; and
(ii)  continuation of technical assistance to the Ministry of
Public Works for implementation of the proposed rehabili-
tation and maintenance program, training of mechanics
and equipment operators, and preparation of a third
phase program to be executed beginning in 1983/84.
(b) renovation of the soils laboratory including:
(i)  rehabilitation and extension of the existing building;
(ii)  purchase of additional equipment and parts for repair
of existing equipment; and
(iii)  technical assistance for training of laboratory techni-
cians and fellowships for training of a soils engineer;
(c) preinvestment studies including:
(i)  a feasibility study and detailed engineering for recon-
struction of some sections of the Conakry-Mamou road
(250 km); and
(ii)  strengthening of the preinvestment studies capability
within the Ministry of Public Works.
3.03      The project includes a wide range of practical training for profes-
sional and technical staff, continuing the institution-building efforts begun
in MPW under the First Highway Project. Training activities are incorporated
in the road rehabilitation and maintenance program, the soils laboratory, and



- 19 -
the preinvestment studies and are detailed below (paras. 3.12, 3.14, and 3.18),
but the most significant institutional impact is the practical experience
imparted to Guinean-trained engineers and technicians working on the project,
in the field brigades and workshops, using the sound but largely theoretical
skills acquired during their formal education.
(a) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
(i) Program
3.04      The proposed project continues efforts to rehabilitate and maintain
high priority roads and to strengthen the management and technical capability
of MPW. Under this proposed second phase of the road program, 1,548 km of
high priority gravel and earth roads will be rehabilitated. These roads are
listed in the table below (Map IBRD 14070).
Roads to be Rehabilitated
Gravel and Earth Roads              Length        Traffic in 1978
(km)               (ADT)
Gaoual-Telimele-Kindia               256                  33
Gaoual-Seriba -
Koundara-Senegal Border            154                  21
Labe-Seriba                          146                  48
Labe-Koubia                           83                  15
Labe-Lelouma                          53                  21
Labe-Tougue                           85                  18
Labe-Mali                            104                  29
Dabola-Faranah                       113                  39
Dabola-Dinguiraye                    106                  21
Forecariah-Sierra Leone Border        35                  52
Kankan-Siguiri-Mali Border           211                  24
Kankan-Mandiana                       85                  18
Beyla-Sinko                           56                  22
N'zerekore-Yomou                      61                  27
Total               1,548
3.05      These roads were selected on the basis of traffic, the road's
administrative importance and its role in the Government's development plans,
and the economic potential in the road's influence area. The rehabilitation
works will include: (i) minor improvement of the alignment of some of the
roads for better visibility and drainage; (ii) rebuilding sub-grade
and wearing courses; (iii) rebuilding of drainage structures; and (iv)
rehabilitation of bridges. The program specifically excludes improvements
which would involve extensive design and heavy earthworks. At negotiations,
the Government agreed that such works will not be undertaken and that, in
general, equipment and materials will not be used for any work outside the
range of the understanding of the project unless specifically agreed in
advance with IDA.



- 20 -
3.06      Under the proposed project, an expanded program of maintenance
will be established on about 4,600 km of high priority roads. This program
includes the entire network (1,141 km) of paved roads, the maintenance of most
of which was started under the First Highway Project.  The remainder, 3,459
km, are gravel and earth roads, of which 1,445 km will have been rehabilitated
under the First Highway Project and 1,548 km under the proposed project.  The
remainder, 466 km, need only routine maintenance. Periodic maintenance opera-
tions for paved roads will include resurfacing of about 300 km with extensive
repairs of the base course. Backlog maintenance on the remaining paved roads
will include surface treatment and patching operations. Mechanized routine
maintenance operations for gravel and earth roads will include grading,
reshaping and compacting of wearing courses. Manual routine maintenance
(cantonnage) will be carried out on the entire high priority road network and
will include maintenance of shoulders (cutting grass and reshaping), filling
of potholes and cleaning of ditches and drainage structures.
(ii) Road Equipment, Materials and Supplies
3.07      The existing brigades are provided with equipment bought under the
First Highway Project. Under the proposed project, additional highway
equipment will be provided for replacing equipment, for increasing the
efficiency of the existing brigades and improving their operations, for
three maintenance brigades which will be created in the RGCs, for 12 manual
brigades in 12 subdivisions which were not equipped under the First Highway
Project and for 9 bridge rehabilitation crews. Spare parts will be bought
for the existing and proposed equipment (15% and 10% of their value, respec-
tively). Additional equipment (with estimated costs excluding renewal
equipment) and its deployment by brigades are shown in Annexes 3 and 4 and
agreed at negotiations.
3.08      The existing equipment is well maintained in the four workshops
(Conakry, Mamou, Kankan and N'zerekore) built and equipped under the First
Highway Project (para 2.18). The proposed project will increase equipment
maintenance capacity by building and equipping one additional workshop in
Labe and extending the central workshop in Conakry.
3.09      The proposed project will also help finance fuel, materials and
supplies for road rehabilitation and, on a decreasing basis, for maintenance
operations (para. 2.30), the construction of an office and the purchase of
some furniture and equipment for DGRB in Conakry.
(iii) Technical Assistance for Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
3.10      The successful programming, engineering and execution of the
rehabilitation works and maintenance operations, as well as the training of
mechanics and equipment operators, require continuation of technical assis-
tance started under the First Highway Project. The Government will secure
the services of consultants to provide technical assistance to DGRB. The
consultants' terms of reference, given in Annex 2, will be agreed upon.



- 21 -
3.11      The following qualified experts will provide 243 man-months of
technical assistance to DGRB:
(a)  a civil engineer and mission leader (for 31 man-months),
experienced in the administration and management of
highway projects, who will advise and assist the project
manager;
(b)  a civil engineer (for 30 man-months), with experience in road
maintenance and construction, who will advise and assist the
heads of regravelling brigades in planning and execution of
road rehabilitation works including perforiuit-il -tcoLi -ng,
and who will conduct on-the-job training of newly graduated
road engineers assigned to the project;
(c)  a civil engineer (20 man-months), experienced in bridge design,
who will advise and assist the project staff on design and
construction of bridges;
(d)  a construction engineer (for 30 man-months), with field
experience in bridge construction, who will advise and
assist bridge maintenance and construction teams on repair,
maintenance and construction of bridges;
(e)  a senior mechanical engineer (for 30 man-months) and two
highly-qualified mechanics (for 60 man-months) who will
advise and assist workshop heads on workshop management,
stock accounting and execution of maintenance of equipment;
(f)  a mechanical engineer (for 30 man-months), with training
experience, who will train mechanics and equipment operators
in the Conakry training center; and
(g)  an accountant (12 man-months) who will consolidate and refine
the accounting system for the project and conduct on-the-job
training of accountants.
3.12      Training of mechanics and equipment operators will continue in
Conakry, where a training center was improved and equipped under the First
Highway Project.  The proposed project will provide short courses during a
three-year period for equipment operators and mechanics. It is estimated that
24 mechanics and operators can be trained per year with a probable output of
60 men for the three-year program. To fulfill the project's needs in skilled
technicians, on-the-job training of semi-skilled laborers within the regravel-
ling and maintenance brigades will continue. The project also provides for 10
fellowships for DGRB engineers and technicians for further training abroad for
six- to twelve-month periods.



- 22 -
(b) National Public Works Laboratory
3.13      DGRB intends to rehabilitate its soils laboratory, which is now
in a run-down office building. Its equipment is mostly obsolete, broken-down
and of disparate origins. Its staff numbers one engineer, trained in the
Ecole Polytechnique in Conakry, and four technicians.
3.14      The proposed project will provide:  improvement and extension of
the building; new equipment and spare parts for some still-useful, existing
equipment; one expert for three years for the training of technicians, and
fellowships for training abroad two engineers and eight other technicians.
A detailed description of the laboratory component is in the project file,
and the consultants' Terms of Reference are given in Annex 7.
3.15      The laboratory will be set up as a self-supporting, autonomous
agency with the help of consultants (para. 3.25). For training purposes the
laboratory will support the road rehabilitation program and preinvestment
studies under the proposed project.
(c) Preinvestment Studies
3.16      The proposed project includes a feasibility study and detailed
engineering for the reconstruction of sections of the two-lane, paved Conakry-
Mamou road (250 km), the most important and heavily-trafficked section of the
country's main transport corridor: Conakry-Mamou-Dabola-Kankan. The Conakry-
Mamou road was built in the late 1950's and paved between 1965 and 1968. In
some sections, sharp curves and steep grades reduce speed to 30 km/hr and
render circulation hazardous. In others, the pavement and drainage structures
have deteriorated to a point where they require total reconstruction. Traffic
would vary from 2,500 (Conakry-Kindia) to 800 adt (Kindia-Mamou).
3.17      The feasibility study will, in a first stage, identify road sections
that technically need to be reconstructed and examine their economic feasibility.
The Government and IDA will then review the first stage studies to decide
together the detailed engineering studies of some sections to be undertaken in
the second stage. Outline terms of reference (Annex 5) have been agreed.
3.18      DGRB intends to strengthen its planning and design capabilities.
In addition to feasibility and detailed engineering studies, the consultants'
terms of reference include training of Guinea engineers and economists as
counterparts to the consultants' team, including training abroad at the
firm's head office.
B.   Project Cost and Financing
3.19      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$31.9 million
equivalent, of which taxes on non-exempt items are estimated at GSy64 mil-
lion (US$3.2 million). The foreign exchange cost is US$21.6 million (75%
of the cost net of taxes). The local cost is US$7.1 million (GSy 142 mil-
lion). Project costs net of taxes include US$24.1 million for the capital
costs of road rehabilitation, the National Public Works Laboratory and the
pre-investment study, and the recurrent costs of routine maintenance, about
US$4.6 million, of which IDA would finance US$1.0 million of foreign costs.
Tl  cost estimate, detailed in Annex 1, is summarized below:



- 23 -
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
(Net of Taxes /1)
Foreign
US$'000           as Z
Local  Foreign    Total   of total
I. COST ESTTMATE
A. Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance            6,882   19,562   26,444       74
Equipment and Spare Parts /2                    0    8,811    8,811       100
Operating costs for road rehabilitation /3 3,492    5,977    9,469        63
Recurrent costs for routine maintenance /3 3,068    1,527    4,595        33
Construction of Offices and Workshops         202       304      506      60
Technical Assistance and Fellowships          120    2,943    3,063       96
B. Improvements to Public Works Laboratory           89      904      993       91
Building Extension                             74       110      184      60
Equipment, Materials, and Supplies              O       387      387     100
Technical Assistance and Fellowships           15       407      422      96
C. Preinvestment Studies of Conakry-Mamou Road    130    1,166    1,296         90
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     7,101   21,632   28,732       75
(Rounded)                        (7,100) (21,600) (28,700)    (75)
Of Which:
Base Cost                       6,480   18,726   25,206       74
Physical Contingencies            249      639       888      72
Price Contingencies               372    2,267    2,639       86
II. FINANCING PLAN
A.  Capital Costs                                 4,000   20,100   24,100       83
IDA                                         1,700   10,300   12,000
EEC Special Action Fund                       200    3,800    4,000
BADEA                                                 6,000    6,000
Government                                  2,100              2,100
B.  Recurrent Costs                              3,100    1,500    4,600        33
IDA                                                   1,000    1,000
Government                                  3,100       500    3,600
/1   Taxes on non-exempt items are estimated at US$3.2 million.
/2   Includes US$1.5 million for first tranche renewal of equipment procured
under the First Highway Project.
/3   The Government will also pay: (i) over the three-year project period, about
US$6.0 million equivalent for the salaries of civil service staff working
on the project, and (ii) in 1982, US$1.5 million in foreign exchange for
equipment renewal.



- 24 -
3.20      The estimated quantities and costs for building construction are
based on preliminary plans drafted by the Government with the consultants'
assistance; 10% physical contingencies are allowed for this item during
execution. The estimated costs of supplies are based on the performance of
the existing brigades, which include relatively new equipment uniform in
age and types. As the equipment will be mixed in age and type during the
execution of the proposed project, output will be more variable; hence, 10%
physical contingencies have been allowed for operating costs.
3.21      The cost estimates for consultant services and technical assistance
are based on similar services in Guinea and other West African countries. The
billing rate for consultant services is estimated to average US$6,500 per
man-month, including salaries, overheads, and fees. Reimbursable expenses
payable to consultants are estimated at US$3,500 per field man-month including
housing, internal and overseas travel, telecommunications, report preparation,
etc. The cost of road pre-investment studies is estimated at US$4,000 per km
on the basis of similar studies recently carried out in West Africa. Cost
estimates are based on expected July 1979 prices, and price contingencies have
been included on the following basis:
1979   1980-82
Equipment, Materials and Supplies              6.5%    6.0%
Civil Works and Consultants Services           7.5%    7.0%
3.22      The foreign exchange component of the project, estimated at US$21.6
million, will be financed as follows: US$11.3 million by IDA, US$3.8 million
from the EEC Special Action Fund, US$6.0 million from the Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (BADEA) and US$500,000 from the Government.
This last item represents-the part of the recurrent cost of routine mainte-
nance, which the Government will assume on an increasing basis under the
project (para. 2.30). The table below represents the foreign cost sharing
of the project.
US$' million Equivalent-
IDA      EEC      BADEA      Government
Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Equipment and spare parts          2.4       2.9       2.9
Workshop equipment and tools                  .6
Operating costs, road
rehabilitation                3.8                 2.2
Incremental Recurrent costs,
routine maintenance           1.0                              .5
Buildings                                     .3
Technical assistance and
fellowships                   2.0                 0.9
National Public Works Laboratory          .9
Conakry-Mamou Road Preinvestment
Study                                   1.2
11.3     3.8       6.0        .5
1/   All figures rounded.



- 25 -
IDA would finance, on a declining basis, US$1.0 million of the foreign
recurrent cost of routine maintenance (para. 2.30) and, US$1.7 million in
local costs for (i) labor for the road rehabilitation program (US$1.36
million), (ii) the technical assistance for road rehabilitation (US$120,000),
(iii) the laboratory (US$89,000) and (iv) the feasibility study (US$130,000).
The EEC Special Action Credit would finance the local costs for the buildings
(US$202,000). The Government would finance GSy 10 million (US$500,000
equivalent) for local currency expenditures representing part of the direct
foreign exchange cost of routine maintenance (1/3 in 1981 and 2/3 in 1982,
corresponding to the US$1.0 million IDA contribution), all other local costs
of the project (US$5.2 million), and all taxes on non-exempt items (estimated
at US$3.2 million). Its local currency expenditures would be channeled
through a Revolving Fund of GSy 20 million (paras. 3.28, 3.29). It would
also continue to pay about US$6.0 million in civil service salaries for MPW
staff working on the project.
C.   Implementation
3.23      The MPW through its DGRB will be responsible for implementation of
the project. DGRB will be assisted by consultants.
3.24      The road rehabilitation works will be carried out by force account
using the existing mobile regravelling brigades (para 2.19). The backlog
maintenance operations on paved roads will also be executed by the existing
brigades: one for resurfacing, one for surface treatment and three for
patching works. Gravel for resurfacing and patching will be supplied by the
existing gravel treatment plant. Routine maintenance operations on gravel
and earth roads will be carried out by subdivisions in the Conakry, Boke,
Labe and Kindia Provinces, with support from the regravelling brigades.
Three new light brigades will be created to carry out these operations in
the Faranah, Kankan, and N'zerekore Provinces. "Cantonnage" or manual
routine maintenance (filling potholes, cutting grass, reshaping shoulders,
and cleaning ditches and drainage structures) will be executed by the 33
subdivisions of DGRB, 21 of which were equipped with a truck and tools
under the First Highway Project. Rehabilitation of bridges will be carried
out by nine crews, one for steel structures, three for wood structures, and
five for concrete structures.
3.25      The expected implementation schedule for the major activities of
each project element is shown on the bar chart on page 27. The project will
take about three years to complete, from September 1979 (expected date
of Credit Agreement signature) to December 1982. Both road rehabilitation
and maintenance works will start by January 1980 and last approximately 36
months. Road, workshop and soils laboratory equipment will be delivered
starting in late 1979 and should all have arrived by December 1980. Materials
and supplies for road rehabilitation and maintenance works will be delivered
as the works progress.- Construction of DGRB's office and workshops, and
renovation of the soils laboratory building will start in September 1979 and
last approximately 15 and 6 months, respectively. Technical assistance for
road rehabilitation and maintenance under the First Highway Project, ending
December 1979, will be continued until December 1982. Technical assistance
for the soils laboratory will be provided for three years, from January 1980
to December 1982. Road preinvestment studies will be carried out from late
1979 to December 1981, with a review of feasibility studies by the Government
and IDA in late 1980.



GUINEA
SECOND IICHGWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - C          A L E N D A R .   Y  E A R S - - -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-_ _- 
1979                  1980                   1981                   1982
TTEM              ITEM COMPONENTS          ACTIVITY                              ACTION BY           lat  2nd  3rd  4th   1st  2nd  3rd  4th   lut  2nd  3rd  4th   tst  2nd  3rd  4th
Credit                                       Signing
Effectiveness
Road Pehabilitation      Road Rehabilitation
& Maintenance            Works                                  Government
Highway equipment        Preparation of Bidding Documents   Government                                                         nu
RCADS              and                       Preparation of Bide                   Suppliers
Spare parts              Evaluation and Award                  Government/IDA                                                          _
qEFAEILITATICN    Purchase                   Supplies                             Suppliers
(1548 km)          Materials                 Preparation of Bidding Documents   Government
and                       Preparation of Bide                  Suppliera                     _
Supplies                 Evaluation and Award                  Government/IDA                   -
MAITENANCE         Purchase                  Supplies 1/                           Suppliers
'500 km)          Construction of           Civil                                                                                                                                                      C%
Offices and Workshops       Works                              Governnent
Technical Assistance    Consultants 2/
`;AIICGAL          Building Extension        Civil Works                           Government
SCilS              Equipment                 Evaluation/Award of Contract 3/    Government/IDA                                                                _  _
Purchase                 Supplies                              CEBTP                                -
LABC:?JTORY
Technical Assistance    Soils Laboratory Technics
R£MABILITATICN                               and Studies                           CEBTP
RCAD               Feasibility               Short Listing of Consultants          Covernment/IDA            _
Final Engineering         Preparation of Proposals             Consultants
FREINVEST`ENT      Studies of                Evaluation, Selection, and            Governr.ent/I
Conakry-Mamou Road       Award of Contract                                 IDA_
STUDIES            (270 km)                  Feasibility Studies                   Consultants
i                           Review                                Government/IDA                                        _
Detailed Engineering                  Consultants
I/ Y.aterials and supplies will be provided as road rehabilitation and maintenance works progress
2/ Consultants Louis Berger International, Inc./Tractionel continue technical assistance begun under the Fi-et Highway Project
3/ CEBTP: single source for 8oil laboratory equipment and technical assistance



- 27 -
D.   Procurement
3.26      Items to be financed by IDA will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank
guidelines. New highway and workshop equipment and spare parts for existing
MPW equipment to be financed by the EEC Special Action Credit will be
procured from the original suppliers or from other eligible sources, accord-
ing to the procurement rules applying to the EEC Special Action Account.
Equipment and materials to be financed in parallel by BADEA will be procured
according to its procurement rules. Equipment or groups of the same items
of equipment with a value of less than US$50,000 but in the aggregate not
exceeding US$300,000 may be procured on the basis of quotations from local
suppliers or, where appropriate, by limited international tendering. Fuel
and lubricants will be bought from ONAH, the state-owned sole supplier
(about US$9.3 million), and cement (to be financed by BADEA) from BATIPORT
(about US$1.4 million). Fuel and lubricants are part of the Government's
bulk procurement arrangements for the country. Supplies come from IDA
member countries and prices are reasonable. The possibility of procuring
cement through limited international tendering will be explored. In
evaluating bids for equipment purchase, MPW will give due consideration to
the availability of after-sales service and spare parts and the possibility
of matching the equipment to be purchased with the equipment purchased under
1CB during the First Highway Project in order to simplify equipment mainten-
ance. Construction of DGRB's office and workshops and the laboratory
building (about US$700,000) will be executed by DGRB and contractors selected
after local advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with procure-
ment procedures of the Government, acceptable to IDA.
3.27      The Government wants consultants Louis Berger International
Tractionel (USA/Belgium) to continue providing technical assistance for the
road rehabilitation and maintenance program begun under the First Highway
Project. Their performance has been satisfactory, and BADEA has agreed to
joint financing of this technical assistance (para. 3.28). The Government
also wants to select CEBTP (France) to provide equipment and technical
assistance to the soils laboratory. CEBTP prepared the project's laboratory
component, already manages or assists several state-owned road soils labora-
tories in French-speaking Africa, and set up the original laboratory in
Conakry before Guinea's independence in 1958. The preinvestment studies of
the Conakry-Mamou road will be carried out by qualified and experienced
consultants assisted by MPW staff counterparts. The employment of these
consultants and CEBTP, to be financed by IDA, would conform to IDA Policy.
E.   Disbursements
3.28      The proposed IDA credit of US$13.0 million would be disbursed on the
following basis:
(i) 100% of the cif cost of equipment and spare parts or
95% of the cost of imported items purchased locally;



- 28 -
(ii) for bituminous paving materials for road rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance, 100% of the cif cost;
(iii) for expenditures incurred under the Revolving Fund for road
rehabilitation and maintenance, 46% of total costs to a maximum
of US$1,900,000, 42% to a maximum of US$1,800,000 and 37% to a
maximum of US$1,700,000, reflecting anticipated expenditures
for imported materials and supplies (except cement, culverts
and metal products) procured locally and for wages for road
rehabilitation, in project years 1, 2 and 3 respectively (paras.
2.31 and 3.29);
(iv) 100% of the local costs and 67% of foreign costs for consultants'
services for road rehabilitation and maintenance; and
(v) 100% of total expenditures for the National Public Works
Laboratory, for the Conakry-Mamou road preinvestment study,
and for auditing of project accounts.
The EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent would be
disbursed on the following basis:
(i) for highway equipment and spare parts, for spare parts for
existing MPW equipment, and for workshop and laboratory
equipment and tools, 100% of the cif cost, or 95% of the cost
of such items locally procured; and
(ii) 100% of total expenditures for construction of DGRB's office
and workshops.
These disbursement percentages have been calculated on the basis of the
c.i.f. prices, taxes, and local markups on imported goods, and in view of
the Government's policy to exempt all goods directly imported for develop-
ment projects from all taxes and duties, and to require that such taxes be
paid on locally-purchased goods. The proposed BADEA loan would be disbursed
on a pari passu basis with the IDA Credit, for 33% of the foreign costs of
consultants' services for road rehabilitation and maintenance (US$971,000).
BADEA would also finance 100% of the foreign cost of about US$2.8 million
of road maintenance equipment and spare parts and about US$2.2 million for
metal products, culverts and cement for the road rehabilitation program.
The disbursement schedules for the IDA Credit and the EEC Special Action
Credit are shown on page 30.



- 29 -
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'000)
IDA Fiscal Year and                       Cumulative Disbursements
Quarter Ending                             at End of Quarter
IDA           EEC Special
Credit    Action Fund Allocation
1980
December 1979                       500             1,000
March 1980                        1,900             2,300
June 1980                         3,000             3,000
1981
September 1980                    3,500             3,500
December 1980                     4,100             3,750
March 1981                        5,450             4,000
June 1981                         6,800
1982
September 1981                    8,200
December 1981                     9,500
March 1982                       10,300
June 1982                        11,000
1983
September 1982                   11,800
December 1982                    12,600
March 1983                       12,800
June 1983                        13,000
US$650,000 million of the proposed IDA Credit and US$250,000 of EEC Special
Action Credit would remain unallocated.
3.29      Requests for disbursements against the elements of the project
will be fully documented and detailed documentation will be retained by the
borrower and available for inspection by IDA. At negotiations the Government
agreed to establish a Revolving Fund of GSy 20 million to pay local currency
expenditures, including those for wages, imported materials and supplies
eligible for reimbursement by IDA. Establishment of this fund and payment
of the first GSy 20 million contribution would be conditions for Credit
effectiveness. IDA's disbursement percentages for expenditures under this
Fund for rehabilitation and maintenance decline each year, reflecting IDA's
reducing participation in routine maintenance costs. The Fund would be
replenished monthly on submission of satisfactory project accounts, documenta-
tion for all purchases, and statements of expenditure for wages, which will
be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA.
F. Project Monitoring
3.30      At negotiations, the Government agreed that it would submit
to IDA quarterly, within 45 days of the end of the reporting period, the
progress reports of its consultants for road rehabilitation and maintenance,
together with MPW's comments. As during the First Highway Project, these
reports will detail the progress of the project during the reporting period,
noting problems encountered and solutions thereto, and set out the program



- 30 -
for the next six months. These reports will contain detailed reports on the
project's financial status and updated cost estimates. The Government also
agreed that at the end of the project, it will prepare a project comple-
tion report and submit it to IDA within three months of the final disbursement.
IV. ECONOMIC APPRAISAL
A.   General
4.01      The proposed project is the second phase of a road rehabilitation
and maintenance program which the Government began in 1977 with IDA's help.
It will rehabilitate to all-weather standard a further 1,548 km of regional
and interregional laterite roads. It will also regularize routine mainte-
nance on the 2,500 km of roads rehabilitated under the First Highway Project
(paras. 2.18-2.20), the roads to be rehabilitated under this project, and
about 540 km of other roads of national importance. The proposed project
will complement the road network rehabilitation already undertaken, thus
supporting the Government's efforts to improve the exchange and transport of
goods between regional markets and to connect all 33 regional headquarters
with Conakry.
4.02      As the Government is now reviewing its overall policy of rural
development, including the questions of farm organization and producer prices,
it was not possible to quantify rigorously the development impact of these
rehabilitation works. In the Foutah-Djallon region, about 600 km of road
rehabilitation will connect the important livestock-raising centers of Tougue,
Koubia, Mali, Seriba and Lelouma with regional collection points at Labe and
Gaoual, and then to markets in Boke and Conakry (via Mamou and Telimele). A
US$15.7 million IDA livestock project is planned in this area (para. 4.09).
Major rice-growing regions in the valleys of the Niger and Kinkasso Rivers
will be served (by the Dinguiraye-Dabola-Faranah and Kankan-Siguiri-Kouremali
roads) as well as the plain between Gaoual and the Senegalese border, a
potentially important groundnut and food-crop production zone. In the forest
region, Yomou and the Sinko region will be linked to Beyla and N'zerekore for
the commercialization of their agricultural products.
4.03      Vehicle operating costs were calculated by MPW and the appraisal
mission.
Vehicle operating costs, 1978
(GSy/veh-km, net of taxes)
Paved road                Laterite road
good   fair   poor    good   fair  poor  very poor
car                    1.6    1.7    1.9       1.9    2.4   2.7       3.1
van                    2.7    3.1    3.6       3.5    4.3   5.0       6.0
10 t truck             9.5   10.3   11.2    11.1   13.2  14.6        16.5
Source:  MPW, mission estimates, using the Highway Design Model.



- 31 -
4.04      All costs and benefits in the economic appraisal have been expressed
net of taxes and duties, where applicable. Local costs, which have been con-
verted to foreign exchange using a shadow exchange rate of US$1=GSy40 rather
than the official rate of US$1=GSy2O, include only the local component for
materials and supplies, and incremental expenditures totalling about US$3.8
million for incentive payments and for manual brushcutting and ditch clearing
by casual laborers. Their daily wage, GSy 100, has been converted using the
overall shadow exchange rate indicated above.
B.   Economic Rate of Return and Its Sensitivity
4.05      The project's rehabilitation and road maintenance component and
supporting technical assistance (together amounting to 91 percent of total
project cost) would yield an ERR of 49 percent. While the specific benefits
of the technical assistance cannot be quantified, their cost is included in
the benefit-cost calculation. Excluding the cost of technic-1 assistance,
the ERR is 56%. With a 15% increase in equipment capital costs, and a 15%
increase in non-wage operating costs, the ERR falls to 37%, which is still
satisfactory. The benefits from rehabilitating the National Public Works
Laboratory and from the study of the Conakry-Mamou road cannot be quantified
(9% of total project cost) and therefore these components have not been
included in the overall ERR calculation. Both, however, are expected
to have a substantial institutional impact and help prepare the way for
future highway development in Guinea.
C.   Road Rehabilitation
4.06      The ERR calculation for individual links is based on an economic
cost of US$4500 per km of rehabilitation, which includes the cost of equip-
ment (60% depreciated over the 3-season life of the project), fuel, materials
and spare parts, incremental labor costs (para. 4.04) and equipment servicing
in the project workshops. Routine maintenance and grading are assumed to
continue over the life of the rehabilitation works, which is assumed to be
eight years, at an economic cost ranging from US$350 per km per year (adt 20)
to US$650 per km per year (adt 50). Since a 550 m daily output per rehabilita-
tion brigade was achieved during the First Highway Project, the same output
has been assumed. The proposed rehabilitation works have been grouped in
three categories. The first group (para. 4.07), includes roads feeding to
the central Conakry-Mamou axis, with existing traffic established above 30
vpd, on which a 5% annual growth has been assumed. The second (para. 4.08)
are in the eastern Kankan and N'zerekore provinces, areas of economic poten-
tial, where past rehabilitation works resulted in large generation of traffic
and similar results are likely for the project roads in the area. The third
category includes roads in the Foutah-Djallon area around Labe, an area of
great livestock potential, where substantial complementary investment is
envisaged (para. 4.09). Although the ERR of some roads is below 10% based on
current traffic levels and construction in the first year of the project, they
have been included to use the brigades' equipment to its capacity and on the
good likelihood that traffic will increase prior to rehabilitation later in
the project. The ERR for each group of roads has been calculated on the basis
of rehabilitating the most heavily trafficked roads at the beginning of the
project.



- 32 -
4.07      Savings in vehicle operating costs alone justify the proposed
rehabilitation of the laterite roads listed below, with an ERR of about 14%.
Road                                    Length (km)        1978 adt
Gaoual-Telimele-Kindia                       256              33
Dabola-Faranah                               113              39
Dabola-Dinguiraye                            106              31
Forecariah-Sierra Leone border                35              52
510     average 35
The ERR for rehabilitation on individual roads varies from 7% (1978 adt 31)
to 25% (1978 adt 52), assuming a traffic growth of 5% per year.
4.08      Under the First Highway Project, about 720 km of roads in the
Kankan and N'zerekore provinces were rehabilitated. Once these roadworks
were completed, traffic on all of them increased on average by 50% in the
following dry season. For the roads listed below, in these two provinces,
the same generated traffic has been assumed, followed by a 5% annual traffic
growth in both normal and generated traffic:
Road                                    Length (km)        1978 adt
Kankan-Siguiri-Mali Border                   211              24
Kankan-Mandiana                               85              18
Beyla-Sinko                                   56              22
N'zerekore-Yomou                              61              27
413     Average 23
The ERR for the rehabilitation of these roads is 11%, ranging from 9% to 15%,
with generated traffic accounting for 20% of the benefits. The areas have
important potential for irrigated rice in the north, livestock in the central
areas, and rice, vegetables and wood in the south.
4.09      The roads listed below serve the important Foutah-Djallon area,
an area, centered around Labe, of excellent potential for increasing live-
stock production:
Roads                                   Length (km)        1978 adt
Labe-Seriba                                  146              48
Labe-Mali                                    104              30
Labe-Koubia                                   83              15
Labe-Lebouma                                  53              21
Labe-Tongue                                   85              18
Gaoual-Seriba-Koundara-Senegal border        154              21
625     average 28



- 33 -
These roads support a FY80 livestock project which IDA is planning for
implementation over the 1981-85 period. With a net-of-tax cost of US$15.7
million, it would finance animal health, planning studies and training. As
a result of the project, total incremental beef production at full project
development would be around 12,000 tons/year, an increase of about 50% over
present production levels. Participating livestock owners would experience
on average an increase in yearly income of about GSy 2600 (US$130). Including
the roads in the proposed second highway project yields an ERR for the develop-
ment package of 54%. This ERR is not highly sensitive to the cost of the
rehabilitation of the roads: even with a 20% cost increase, the ERR of the
package is an acceptable 49%. Benefits from the livestock development package,
which the roads support, would have to drop by 68% to yield a 10% ERR.
D.   Maintenance
4.10      As is typically the case, the maintenance component has a high
economic rate of return, since without regular routine maintenance, the sunk
investment in roads deteriorates rapidly due to traffic and the harsh rainy
season conditions. For the purposes of the calculation, a six-year period has
been used, roughly corresponding to the life of the equipment. With routine
maintenance (grading frequency varying according to traffic, and regular
brush-cutting and ditch-clearing by hand methods), a reasonably smooth surface
has been assumed. Annual maintenance costs for gravel roads vary from about
US$350/km at 20 adt, US$500/km at 30 adt to US$650 at 50 adt, and for paved
roads, about US$1300/km. The maintenance of paved roads, which accounts for
7% of total project costs, has an overall ERR of 78%, and is not highly
sensitive to increases in costs (a 20% increase yielding a 63% ERR). The
benefit cost ratio (BCR), discounted at 12%, is 2.0:1. The maintenance of
gravel roads under the project has an overall ERR of well over 100%, taking
into account only savings in vehicle operating costs. Its BCR is 1.8:1. The
ERR is not highly sensitive to increases in costs, and benefits would have
to drop by 46% to produce a 12% ERR. This latter result would occur only if
operations were grossly inefficient or if there were substantial diversion of
equipment. In light of IDA's experience with MPW during the First Highway
Project, both situations are considered unlikely.
E.   Project Beneficiaries
4.11      By improving mobility and facilitating the movement of goods and
people, the project is likely to have a substantial impact on the Guinean
economy as a whole. To the extent that generated traffic is a proxy for
increased production in the areas of influence of the roads, the rural
population living in the regions served by the roads should also benefit from
easier access to national markets, which ceteris paribus should allow them
to market their surplus production. Specifically, farmers in the Labe area
would achieve a higher yearly income, partly as a result of the roads (para.
4.09). The project's direct benefits accrue to the operators of motor vehicles,
mainly the state-owned transport organizations and the Government. They
account for most of the truck traffic, and about half the other traffic
(or about 60% of total traffic) and will receive about 70% of the benefits.
The remaining 30% accrues to private drivers and operators generally engaged
in passenger transport.



- 34 -
F.   Project Risks
4.12      In view of the Association's experience under the First Highway
Project, this project presents no special technical or managerial risks.
The standard of rehabilitation achieved in the 1977-79 operating seasons was
good, with careful attention being paid to materials selection, drainage and
proper compaction. Efficient use was made of the equipment, materials and
personnel mobilized in a coordinated rehabilitation and maintenance program.
Guinean staff of satisfactory number and caliber worked effectively under
the first project, and the continued assistance of technical advisors is
envisaged. The financial mechanisms incorporated in the project (paras. 2.30
and 2.31) and the Revolving Fund should help resolve the problem in the past
of insufficient resources being devoted to financing road maintenance. To
continue the effective dialogue on sector issues begun under the on-going
project, close supervision by frequent IDA missions is planned.
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations for the proposed Credit, the following prin-
cipal issues were discussed, and agreements reached with the Government and
specified as conditions in the Credit Agreement:
(i)  that the Government will establish a special fund, and
allocate to it, annually beginning in 1982, US$1.5 million
in foreign exchange for equipment replacement and spare
parts: submission to IDA of a procurement plan for equipment
and spare parts and agreement with IDA by December 31, 1980,
on the operational details of this fund and actions to make
it operational would be a condition for disbursement for a
US$1.5 million tranche of replacement equipment (para. 2.31);
(ii)  that the Government will also provide, annually beginning
in 1983, the equivalent of US$3.9 million for operating
expenses for road maintenance, and that it will adjust
this amount (expressed in 1979 dollars) as appropriate
to reflect changes in the cost of fuel, materials and
wages (para. 2.30);
(iii)  that, except as IDA shall otherwise agree, the rehabilita-
tion program to be undertaken shall comprise the roads
listed in para. 3.04;
(iv)  that the equipment and materials financed by the project
will not be used for any work outside its scope or objec-
tives, without the prior agreement of IDA (para. 3.05);
(v) that the Government will prepare, and submit to IDA within
three months of the final disbursement, a completion
report (para. 3.30).



- 35 -
5.02      The conditions for effectiveness of the proposed Credit are:
(i) cross-effectiveness with the proposed US$6.0 million loan from
BADEA; and
(ii)  establishment of the Revolving Fund and payment into it by
the Government of GSy 20 million (para. 3.29).
5.03      During negotiations, the following were confirmed:
(i) the list of equipment to be purchased (para. 3.07);
(ii)  terms of reference for the technical assistance (paras. 3.10,
3.27 and Annexes 2 and 7);
(iii) terms of reference for the pre-investment study of the
Conakry-Mamou road (para. 3.17 and Annex 5);
(iv)  the outline and timing of the quarterly progress reports
(para. 3.30); and
(v) the proposed arrangements for consultants' services (para. 3.27).
5.04      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit of US$13.0 million
to the Government of the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea on
standard IDA terms, and an allocation equivalent to about US$4.0 million
from the EEC Special Action Fund.



-36-                                                    ANNEX 1
GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HTCIIWAY PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates
(Net of Taxes)
(As of July 1979)
Foreign
Sylis Million 1"                  US$'000                 as %
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    of Total
A.  Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance            137.64    391.24   528.88    6,882    19,562   26,444             74
uipment                        °.                 °° 1176.22    76.22 0                8 811                   1U
Highway Equipment                             0.00      94.64    94.64        0        4,732    4,732         100
Equipment renewal _/                          0.00      27.28    27.28        0        1,364    1,364         100
Spare parts 3/                                0.00      27.48    27.48        0        1,374    1,374         100
Workshop equipment and tools                  0.00      10.80    10.80        0          540       540        100
Price contingencies (10%)                     0.00      16.02    16.02        0          801       801        100
Operating Costs for Road Rehabilitation        69.84    119.54   189.38    3,492         5,977    9,469          63
a)  Materials and Supplies                   34.32      96.16   130.48    1,716        4,808    6,524          74
Physical contingencies (10%)            3.44       9.62    13.06        172       481       653         74
Price contingencies (13%)               4.90      13.76    18.66        245        688      933         74
b)  Labor 4/                                 27.18          0    27.18    1,359            0    1,359           0
Recurrent Costs of Road Maintenance            61.36      30.54    91.90    3.068        1,527    4,595          33
a)  Materials and Supplies                   10.90      24.56    35.46        545      1,228    1,773          69
Physical contingencies (10%)            1.08       2.46      3.54        54        123      177         69
Price contingencies (13%)               1.56       3.52      5.08        78        176      254         69
b)  Labor 4/                                 47.82          O     47.82    2,391         °       2,391          °
Buildings                                        4.04       6.08    10.12       202        304       506         60
Workshop in Labé                               0.56      0.84      1.40        28         42        70         60
Conakry (Extension)                           0.30       0.46      0.76        15         23        38         60
DGRB's office                                  2.58       3.86     6.44       129        193       322         60
Physical contingencies (10%)                   0.34      0.52      0.86        17         26        43         60
Price contingencies (7%)                       0.26      0.40      0.66        13         20        33         61
Technical Assistance & Fellowships               2.40     58.86    61.26        120      2,943    3,063          96
Consultants                                    2.08     50.32    52.40        104      2,516    2,620          96
Price contingencies (15%)                      0.32      7.54      7.86        16        377       393         96
Fellowships                                   0.00       1.00      1.00         °         50        50        100
B.  Improvement of Soils Laboratory                  1.78      18.08    19.86         89        904       993        91
Extension Building                               1.48       2.20     3.68        74        110       184         60
Civil works                                    1.26      1.86      3.12        63         93       156         60
Physical contingencies (10%)                   0.12      0.18      0.30         6          9        15         60
Price contingencies (7%)                       0.10      0.16      0.26         5          8        13         58
Equipment                                        0.00       7.74     7.74          °       387       387        100
Equipment, Materials, and Supplies             0.00      7.04      7.04          °       352       352        100
Price contingencies (10%)                      0.00      0.70      0.70          °        35        35        100
Technical Assistance & Fellowships               0.30      8.14      8.44        15        407       422         96
Consultants                                    0.26      6.20      6.46        13        310       323         96
Price contingencies (15%)                      0.04      0.94      0.98          2        47        49         96
Fellowships                                    0.00      1.00      1.00          °        50        50        100
C.  Study of Conakry-Mamou Road (270 km)             2.60      23.32    25.92        130      1,166    1,296          90
Study                                          2.34     21.02    23.36        117      1,051    1,168          90
Price contingencies (11%)                      0.26       2.30     2.56        13        115       128         90
TOTAL                                  142.02    432.64   574.66  7,1105/  21,632 2ji1  5 75
Base Cost                              129.60    374.52   504.12    6,480    18,726   25,206             74
Physical contingencies                   4.98      12.78    17.76        249        639       888         72          Z
Price contingencies                      7.44      45.34    52.78        372      2,267    2,639         86
1/  At an exchange rate of US$1 = Sylis 20.
?/ To be procured in mid-1981
3/ 10% and 15% of value of new and existing equipment, respectively, existing equipment valued at US$6 million.
4/. Excluding the cost of civil servants involved in the project estimated at US$6 million.
s/  Taxes on non-exempt items arc estinmated at US$3.2 million.



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works Directorate General
of Roads and Bridges
Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
Outline Draft Terms of Reference
for Consulting Services
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Guinea, with the assistance of the Interna-
tional Development Association (IDA), is carrying out a rehabilitation and
maintenance program, the second phase of which will extend over a period of
three years. The consulting services required to assist the Government in
executing the program are outlined below.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of the services, which will cover the 36-month period
1980-1982, is generally to assist the Directorate General of Roads and
Bridges (DGRB) to implement a second-phase three-year plan for rehabilita-
tion and maintenance. The objective of this plan is to:
(i) carry out needed rehabilitation on a second tranche
1,548 km of roads and carry out proper maintenance
operations on 4,622 km of roads;
(ii) maintain existing equipment and plant and workshops;
(iii) purchase (1) highway equipment and spare parts, (2)
workshop equipment and tools;
(iv) purchase materials and supplies for all operations
included in the project;
(v) continue a training program for mechanics and
equipment operators; and
(vi) enable DGRB to continue these operations once the second
phase has been completed.



-38 -                        MANNEX 2
Page 2
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A.   General
3.        The Consultants shall advise and assist DGRB in the performance of
all engineering and administrative work, organizational and financial analyses,
field investigations, rehabilitation and maintenance operations, training
personnel, and all related work herein described, as required to obtain the
objectives given in Section II above. In the conduct of this work the Consul-
tants shall cooperate fully with DGRB, which in turn will provide the data and
services outlined in Section VI below; the Consultants shall be responsible,
however, for the analysis and interpretation of all data received, and for the
conclusions and recommendations contained in their reports.
B.   Maintenance Organization
4.        The Consultants shall advise and assist in the organizational
changes needed to increase the efficiency of all functions of the DGRB and
to implement the program as outlined below.
C.   Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
5.        The attached list and Map specify the 4,622 km of high priority
roads which form part of the second phase, three-year rehabilitation and
maintenance program, all as developed by DGRB with the explicit understanding
that the rehabilitation program includes only such works which are required to
reconstruct the selected roads as originally designed or as subsequently
improved. Improvements involving heavy earthworks are not to be included in
the scope of the project.
6.        The Consultants shall advise and assist in the review and analysis
of all existing plans concerning rehabilitation work on the selected roads,
and in their recommendations shall indicate:
a)   which road sections are in suitable condition for
routine and periodic maintenance by departmental
forces; and
b)   which road sections are in need of rehabilitation
and minor improvement works suited for execution by
departmental forces.
7.        During the implementation of the project, the Consultants shall make
detailed studies of maintenance operations, equipment and administration, and
shall advise and assist DGRB in the recording of cost data. The consultants
shall then assist DGRB in the determination of the minimum level of maintenance
operations required to keep the selected roads at a suitable level of traffic
serviceability, determine the prospective costs of maintenance, and advise and
assist in the program and budgets for future maintenance of the selected roads.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
D.   Equipment and Plant
8.        The consultants shall advise and assist DGRB in reviewing and
updating the inventory of existing equipment, spare parts and tools.
9.        This review and updating shall be accompanied by detailed and
documented cost estimates for the proposed acquisitions.
10.       The Consultants shall assist DGRB in the preparation of bidding
documents, the evaluation of bids, and in contract awards.
E.   Operations
11.       The Consultants shall advise and assist DGRB in the implementation
of the second three-year rehabilitation and maintenance plan with particular
view to improving operations and procedures for routine and periodic maintenance
of the roads concerned, that will result in optimum utilization of departmental
equipment, facilities, manpower and materials, and in efficient control of
costs, accounting and records.
12.       The Consultants shall advise and assist DGRB in the repair of bridges
on the selected roads, and introduce a system of regular inspections by quali-
fied personnel as the fundamental basis of competent bridge maintenance. If
complete plans of bridges as constructed are not available, the Consultants
shall advise and assist in field surveys of such bridges and in the resulting
preparations of plans.
13.       The Consultants shall advise and assist DGRB in the rehabilitation
of the workshop in Boke and the extension of the workshop in Conakry.
14.       The Consultants shall advise and assist DGRB in the acquisition of
all materials and supplies needed for the performance of operations under
the three-year project, and shall assist DGRB in the preparation of bidding
documents, the evaluation of bids, and in contract awards for such materials
and supplies during the three-year period.
F.   Training of Skilled Labor
15.       In conjunction with the technical assistance described above, the
Consultants shall advise and assist DGRB in the training of mechanics and
equipment operators in the Conakry training center. The Consultants shall
direct alternate six-month courses for mechanics and equipment operators.
G.   Continuation of the 1976-1982 Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Operations
16.       The Consultants shall prepare a detailed program for the continua-
tion of the 1976-1982 Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation operations and shall
provide the economic justification for the on-going program based on a com-
parison of costs and benefits. The proposal shall include estimates of



- 40 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 4
additional manpower, equipment, spare parts and materials required for its
implementation, and the consultants shall identify the items obtainable
locally and those to be imported.
17.       The Consultants shall prepare cost estimates (separated into capital
and recurrent costs) and outline specifications for all major items in the
program. For the equipment items suitable for international competitive
bidding, the consultants shall prepare appropriate contract documents.
18.       On the basis of the experience and results of the 1976-1982 opera-
tions, and in cooperation with DGRB, the Consultants shall also make detailed
recommendations on:
(i)  suggested organizational and financial measures for
further improving Highway Administration and Maintenance;
(ii) measures to reinforce management procedures which will
enable the DGRB to exercise adequate control over all
types of road maintenance, rehabilitation and construction;
(iii) the feasibility of setting up a state-owned construction
operating under commercial principles;
(iv) a detailed training program for DGRB managerial and tech-
nical staff, skilled trades, and semi-skilled workforce,
including a timetable for meeting DGRB's "steady-state"
manpower needs; and
(v) a schedule of annual acquisitions for the equipment
and spare parts needed to pursue this program.
19.       These recommendations shall be accompanied by a detailed time
schedule of implementation.
IV. STAFFING
20.       The following qualifications are considered as a minimum requirement
for your staff:
(a) a civil engineer and mission leader (for 31 man-months),
experienced in the administration and management of highway
projects, who will advise and assist the project manager;
(b) a civil engineer (for 30 man-months), with experience in
road maintenance and construction, who will advise and assist
the heads of regravelling brigades in planning and execution
of road rehabilitation works including performance accounting,
and who will conduct on-the-job training of newly graduated
road engineers assigned to the project;



-41 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 5
(c) Equipment and Workshop Specialist - should be experienced
in the inspection, repair and operation of maintenance
equipment in the field and in the shops; should be capable
of training equipment operators and mechanics.
(d) Bridge Enginee- - should have broad experience in design,
construction and maintenance of 'ridges and in the training
and organizing of bridge inspection personne-- who are able
to ji-dge the importance of any damage and to devise the
proper method of repair.
(e) Maintenance Specialist - shIould be experienced in the direction
of general maintenance operations, and the reporting of findings
which would serve as principal means for the introduction of
new methods for maintenance operations throughout the country.
(f) Master Mechanic - should have broad experience in all matters
pertaining to equipment repairs and maintenance; in the
direct supervision of all shop activities; in the training
and instruction of mechanics; and in the stocking of repair
parts. He should be experienced in the general care of all
highway equipment, including preventive maintenance and the
procedures which are employed by equipment operators to
prevent excessive wear and damage to the equipment.
(g) Mechanic - should have experience in all matters concerning
equipment repairs and maintenance, and should be capable
of adapting his work in the repair shops to apprentice-type,
under-study training, in which partially trained mechanics
will work under his direct supervision.
(h) Operator Instructor - should be experienced in the operation
of several types of equipment, and should be capable of
teaching trainees in the operation of tractors, graders,
wheel loaders, asphalt distributors and finishers, and
stone spreaders, all under actual conditions. He should
also be capable of teaching equipment maintenance as an
important part of the work.
V. REPORTING
21.       The Consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports
within the period indicated:
(i) Progress Reports, at three month intervals giving a state-
ment of all work performed during the reporting period, a
summary of interim findings, and an outline of the work
program for the next two reporting periods (10 copies in
French to the Government, 5 copies in French to the
Association).



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6
(ii) Draft Final Report, within thirty-three months of the
Starting Date, summarizing (a) all works performed,
(b) major findings and conclusions, and (c) recommenda-
tions for further assistance in Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation (10 copies in French to the Government,
5 copies in French to the Association).
(iii)  Final Report, within thirty-six months of the Starting
Date, incorporating (a) all revisions deemed appropriate
by the consultants after receipt of comments on the Draft
Final Report from the Government and the Association; and
(b) an annex listing all comments which have not resulted
in revisions of the report (number of copies to be
determined by the Government and the Association).
22.       The reports mentioned in (i) to (iii) above shall contain a concise
first chapter summarizing all important results, findings, problems, and
recommendations of the Consultants. The Draft Final Report shall be edited
and complete, so that the production of the Final Report can proceed without
delay.
VI. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY DGRB
A.   Technical and Economic Data
23.       The Government is to provide the Consultants with all available
data on:
(i) maps of the country and its transport networks,
including existing inventory data;
(ii)  inventory of existing DGRB personnel, including information
on training, past experience and present responsibilities;
(iii)  traffic on the road network and the economic development
plans of Guinea, necessary to forecast future transport
demand;
(iv)  operations and accounting systems of the DGRB and local
authorities responsible for road maintenance and
rehabilitation;
B.   Cooperation of Governmental Agencies
24.       In connection with work by the Consultants that requires the coopera-
tion of local authorities or other Government agencies, the DGRB is to provide
liaison and to ensure that Consultants have access to all information required
focr the completion of the Action Plan.



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7
25.       The Government is to issue local travel permits to the Consultants
and take all other necessary steps to enable the Consultants' travel without
hindrance in all parts of the country, as required for the performance of
their services.
26.       The DGRB will assign qualified counterpart staff on a full-time basis
to work with the key personnel of the Consultants.
C.   Facilities and Supporting Staff for the Consultants
27.       The Government is to provide the following facilities and staff to
help the Consultants perform their services in Guinea:
(i) office space and furniture including desks, chairs, tables
and filing cabinets; and office equipment including type-
writers, drafting tables, calculating machines and photocopier;
alternatively, Government may request Consultants to purchase
above-mentioned furniture and equipment to be financed out of
the Credit from the International Development Association;
(ii) administrative, secretarial and clerical staff in amounts
to be agreed during contract negotiations;
(iii) supporting staff including surveyors, draftsmen and
field assistants in numbers as required;
(iv) surveying equipment as required, including theodolites,
levels, steel tapes, chains, levelling staffs;
(v) transportation within Guinea including local air transport
and drivers for vehicles to be purchased by the Consultants.
28.       The Government is to assist the Consultants in locating satisfactory
and appropriate hotel and other living accommodations for the personnel of
the Consultants, and in obtaining utilities, telephones, postage, telegraph
and telex services.



-44-
GUINEA
SECOND HIGH'WAY PROJECT                            ANNEX 3
HIGHWAY EQUIPMENT FOR ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
(As of August 1979)
Unit Price
of             Costs
Quantity      New Equipment   (CIF Conakry)   Financed
Equipment                      Existing  New       (US$'000)         (US$'000)         by
Bulldozer (200 hp)                  5       2        114                228           EEC
Bulldozer (150 hp)                  O       3         80                240           EEC
Motor Grader (100 hp)               7      12         66                792           IDA
Wheel Loader (100 hp)               6        5        47                235           EEC
Hydraulie Excavator
(Backhoe 80 hp)                   4        2         84                168           EEC
Vibratory Steel Roller
(8t, 80 hp)                        5        1         67                 67           EEC
Tandem Steel Roller
(8-lOt)                            3        O         43                  O
Pneumatic Tire Rolier
(30t)                             O        4         45                180           EEC
Vibratory Hand Compactor
(160 kg)                          6        3          5                 15           EEC
Dump Truck (8.5t, 7m3)             55      40          31              1240           BADEA
Water Tank Truck
W/pump (10,000 1)                  4        6        41                246           BADEA
Fuel Tank Truck
(8,000 1)                         2        6         41                246           BADEA
Towed Fuel Tank
(10,000 1)                        O        3         30                 90           BADEA
Stationary Fuel Tank
(10,000 1)                        1        5         25                125           EEC
Service Truck                       3       O         60                  O
Maintenance Truck                   3        2         72               144           BADEA
Workshop Truck                      3        O         95                 O
Repair Truck                        2       O        196                  O
Workshop Mobile Crane               O        1        100               100            EEC
Low Bed Trailer
W/Truck                            5        3        35                105           BADEA
Low Bed Trailer                     4        O        33                  O
Road Tractor                        3        O        82                  O
Road Patching Truck                 1        O        48                  O
Bitumen Melting Furnace             1        O        60                  O
Concrete Mixer (500 1)              8        O         9                  O
Air Conipressor (80 hp)             7        8        18                144           EEC
Motor Pump (50m /hr)                3      '12          2.5              30            EEC
Chain Saw                           4        4         0.6                2.4         EEC
Welding Unit                        3        O         10                 O
Four-Wheel Drive
Vehicle                           il      14         12                168           BADEA
Light Vehicle                      16        4          6.3              25.2          BADEA
Fork Lift                           O        2        20                 40           EEC
Mechanical Broom                    O        1         15                15           BADEA
Gravel Plant                        1       O        240                  O
Asphalt Distributor Truck           1        1         75                75            BADEA
Mechanical Aggregate
Spreader                           3            L                       il           BADEA
__    __              ___    _ Si__                                   ____                       _
TOT,.                                                                  4731.6
ROUNDlU TO:                                                            4732



AFrONO HTGIWAOY PROJECT
Road lcl,ahtlltacics and Malcîscacce
(Ja.nury 1980  t D-cceber 1982)
Terms, ECuipTfnt and Costs
Road Rehabilitation                                    Routic    ntenance                       Backlog Maintenance of Paved Ronds .uEiDMent Maintenance
Rearnveilinc                - Brid&es                     Cravel and Earth Rond        "Cantonna e"'                        OP-__ti.._
Steel        Wood       Concrete                                                      Asphal       t            A,nphalt    Gravel Plant
Structures  Structures   Structures                                                     Patchhng   Trleament  Renurfacing_
5 Brigades  1/  I Brigade   3 Brigades  5 Brigades              3 Brigades 21        31 Subdivisions  3 Brigades  I brigade    1 Brigade           I Brigade           5 Workshop         _
Equipment
(including reserves)
Bulldozer (200 hs)                             63___
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  r  in~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ll0(xuig
Yitrrder ( 100 hP)                                                        10 _1                                                         
Wheel loader (100 hp)                           6                                                               3                                                                                2
Hydraulic excavator (8û_hp)                    6_                                                             -___
Vibratory steel roller (8 t)                   6_                                                                                                                               _
Tandem steel roller ( 8 -1O t)                                                                                                                         3
Pneumatie  tire  roller 15a20  t               _        3                                                       3 7
Vibratra   hand cSuppactor (160 k)             5                                                                                                       3              1
DUDP~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                3 truc  (8,  t, 743  3
Dump truck (5 t, 4.5 m3?                                                                                                              33
Water tank tru )k w/pumP (lO,000 L)__ 7_.
Fuel tank truck (8,00i) L)                                                                                                                                                                                            8
Towed fuel tank (10,000 L)5
Statio rya fuel tank (10,000 L)   e                                                                                       _ t   r   r                                                                                 8
Service truck        t      t
Maintenance truckB
Wokhptruck                                                                                                                                                                                                       3
Reartruck                                                                                                                                                                                                         1
Workshor mobile  -rne 
Low bed trailer w/truck                                                      35
Low bed trailer3
Road tractor                                                                                                                                                                           _3
Asphalt distributor_- 
SPreader truck                                                                                                                                                                   2
Road DatchinR truckI
Bitumen meltiny furnace1
CorXcrete mixer (500 L)                                                                   5-                                                                                                                              __
Air compressor (80 hP)                          7                                         5                                _3
Moter DumP (50 m3/hr)                           7                                          5                    3
Chain saw                                       5       _3
Lhtvehicle                                  53                                                                                                                                13
Liechanical broom1
_Crevel plantI
Cost Estimtate   Nto  Taxes)
(U$'000)
1,102(Existing)
Equipment (I]S$1000)on January 1980                  2,837 (Existing); 2,728 (Ne.)                       1,497 (xsig,1,795 (New)                            1,483 (Existing), 79 (New)                           977(New)
Materiais and Supplie, (USS'OOO)                                 3,935                                                   I,Sl                                           1,294                                     1,906
Labor 3/ (US$'000)                                                 882                                                2,702                                               222                             _4_
I/Duri.g t.. ...th.  f thc y-n, one..t b.f.r.r  -d one Just after the rainy season, these brigades are reorganized into light brigad.s to maintain the roads where they are operating.                                 r
î/lncludes additional equipmnent in th. regions (Conak~ry, Bokeb, Labe, and Kindia) -ber. regravelling brigades operate.                                                                                                r
-3/Excluding the cost of civil servante involved in the project, estimated at US$6.0 million. 



- 46 -                       ANNEX 5
Page 1
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Reconstruction of the Conakry-Mamou Road
Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
Outline Terms of Reference
I. OBJECTIVES
1.        The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) intends to undertake the
reinforcement and/or reconstruction of sections of the Conakry-Kindia-Mamou
road (270 km). The economic and technical studies necessary to define these
works are described in these terms of reference.
The objectives of these studies are:
(i) to define on the basis of technical and economic criteria
the optimum characteristics for the reinforcement and/or
reconstruction of the road sections; and
(ii) to prepare the final engineering and bidding documents
for the works defined on the basis of the studies under
(i) above.
In addition, the MPW wishes that its staff (specifically one economist,
one road engineer, and a team of field technicians) become familiar with the
techniques of highway feasibility studies and the project preparation, includ-
ing analysis of transport demand and economic feasibility, and basic highway
design.
2.        The Conakry-Kindia-Mamou road was constructed in the late 1950's/
early 1960's and paved around 1970. The road has had some spotty maintenance
along its entire length. However, this maintenance has not been able to halt
the deterioration of the pavement and the base course on certain sections.
Recently, the deterioration of the pavement has accelerated, and maintenance
is becoming increasingly expensive. In some sections these conditions are
aggravated as a combination of sharp curves and steep, long grades reduces
speed to 30 km/hr and makes circulation hazardous. As this road is carrying
substantial traffic now: 2000 vpd (Conakry-Kindia) and 400 vpd (Kindia-Mamou),
it is necessary to reinforce and/or reconstruct some sections.
II. THE STUDY
3.        For the purpose of this study, the Conakry-Mamou road (250 km)
shsuld be divided into three sections: (i) Conakry Airport-Koubia (40 km) -
for partial realignment and construction; (ii) Koubia-Kindia (60 km) - for
pa- zment strengthening; and (iii) Kindia-Mamou (135 km) - for minor improve-
mei- of the alignment, pavement widening and strengthening.



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The study will be executed in two phases by a team
composed of consultant experts and staff of MPW.
(a) Phase I: Feasibility Study and Preliminary Engineering
Phase I includes all the economic and technical studies
necessary to define the nature, importance, and characteristics
for the reinforcement and/or reconstruction works to be
undertaken.
To the extent possible, the work will be organized so that
all fieldwork will be completed during Phase I.
Phase I will be executed by a team composed of consultant
experts and staff of MPW.
On the basis of the Phase I studies, the Government will
decide the type of improvement to be undertaken on each
section.
(b) Phase II: Detailed Engineering
Phase II will include the detailed engineering and
bidding documents for the execution of the works to be
undertaken.
Phase I
5.        Feasibility Study.  The objective of the feasibility study is to
define the optimum economic solution for the improvement of the Conakry-Mamou
road. The choice will be based on a comparison of alternatives and the
optimum solution will be based principally on:
(i) determining the scope of the reinforcement and/or
reconstruction to be undertaken;
(ii) the technical characteristics to be given to the sections
to be reconstructed and/or reinforced; and
(iii)  the cost for the execution of the works.
6.        The feasibility st-.udy will include:
(1) Traffic studies
Forecasts of traffic will be made for the Conakry-Mamou
road. They should take into account local, regional, and
international traffic.



- 48 -                      ANNEX 5
Page 3
The following vehicle types should be used:
- heavy trucks (greater than 5t load) and buses
- light trucks
- vans and land rovers
- cars
For each section of road studies, forecasts of traffic
shall be established for each five year period during the
economic life of the proposed investments.  The forecasts
should be established with the help of origin-destination
surveys of typical users of the existing corridor (for example,
COTRA, truck operators, agricultural cooperatives).
The following points should receive special attention:
(i)  the modal split of traffic (both freight and
passengers) between the road and the. railway;
(ii) seasonal variations in traffic;
(iii) international traffic Conakry-Freetown and
Conakry-Kankan-Bamako;
(iv) traffic generated by agricultural development,
especially livestock and rice;
(v)  eventual congestion problems on the section
Conakry Airport-Coyah.
(2)  Study of road transport costs
For each technical solution considered, the operating costs for
each type of vehicle as well as their evolution during the economic
life of the investment will be studied. The costs of routine and
periodic maintenance will be included, as well as the costs of
reinforcement and reconstruction. The interrelationship between
traffic, the vehicle operating costs, maintenance costs and the cost
of reconstruction will be considered.
7.        Economic comparison of the solutions examined.  To define the
economically most advantageous solution, a comparison will be made of the
total transport costs on the road (including all vehicle operating costs),
for the economic life of the proposed investment, as well as the costs of
investments and maintenance associated with the different solutions consid-
ered. The comparison is to determine the optimum technical characteristics as
well as the timing of the investment. Normal, generated and diverted 1/
traffic will be separately identified. Other benefits to be quantified are:
the economic savings due to time-savings for the transport of high-value
1/   From the railway



- 49 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
goods, and in reduction in spoilage of perishable goods; the development
benefits in the zone of influence of the road (avoiding double-counting of
generated traffic); the net advantages (or losses) due to the diversion of
traffic from rail or air of passengers or freight. The effects of the align-
ment on the environment shall be examined, and the consultants shall recommend
appropriate measures to minimize any adverse effects.
8.        The various solutions will be compared to a reference solution, which
is defined as the continued use of the existing road, on its present alignment,
without major investments and with maintenance as required (including patching
and resurfacing). Proposed railway investments foreseen before 1985 should
also be taken into account. The economic rate of return and the net present
value using a 12% discount rate will be determined for each solution, as well
as the first year return (comparison of costs to benefits the first year after
completion). A sensitivity analysis will be performed to account for un-
certainty in any of the cost and benefit parameters entering in the calcula-
tion. Any possible interdependence among the variables should be considered.
9.        The costs to be taken into account are economic costs, i.e., net of
taxes and subsidies and adjusted to reflect the scarcity or surplus of the
resource. To convert all local resources into foreign currency, the analysis
shall use both the official exchange rate (US$1 = GSy 20) and a shadow rate
(US$1 = GSy 40).
10.       Technical Investigations.  Consultants should undertake all pertinent
topographic, soils, and hydrological surveys to determine a new alignment or
partial realignment for the reconstruction of the Conakry-Koubia (45 km) road
section; on the Koubia-Kindia section (70 km), they should undertake the
testing of the performance of the existing pavement for the purpose of its
reinforcement; and on the Kindia-Mamou section (135 km), they should undertake
topographic surveys for minor improvement of the alignment and pavement widen-
ing, and test the performance of the existing pavement for the purpose of its
reinforcement.
11.       All bridges and drainage structures to be repaired or reconstructed
will also be examined and the necessary works defined. The documents necessary
for the execution of these works will be prepared, including investigations
for foundation studies and hydrological surveys for drainage works.
12.       The Consultants should also study with special attention the mate-
rials best adapted for the construction of the subgrade, sub-base, the base and
wearing courses. They should identify and carefully evaluate the quality and
quantity of materials of the borrow pits and rock quarries within economical
hauling distance to the road.
13.       The Phase I studies will be defined with the accuracy of preliminary
engineering.



- 50 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
Phase II
14.       Detailed engineering and bidding documents.  The second phase will
include the preparation of detailed engineering costs estimates and bidding
documents for the works selected by the Government on the basis of the Phase I
recommendations. It will include the final detailed topographic surveys, and
geotechnical studies to complement the work done during Phase I, as well as
the staking of the road center line and structures with permanent references.
15.       The bidding documents will be prepared for international competitive
bidding with prequalification of contractors, in accordance with the Guidelines
Concerning Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits. The Consultants
will recommend the grouping of the contract works according to the directives
of the Government.
16.       As soon as the necessary elements for the detailed definition of the
works are known, the consultants will prepare a prequalification dossier. It
will include an invitation to apply for prequalification as well as a brief
descriptive notice on the nature of the works. The consultants will also
prepare the newspaper publicity and the circulars for informing the embassies
of IDA member countries and Switzerland.
17.       The bidding documents shall include:
(a) all plans necessary for staking the road centerline, cross-
sections and grades and for construction of sub-grades, base course,
ditches, shoulders and the pavement, as well as for all drainage
structures and bridges and the associated equipment fittings;
(b) the general conditions of contract, especially concerning the
rules about performance bond, price adjustment, insurance to
be provided and advance payments;
(c) the special conditions of contract, including the technical
specifications of the construction methods and materials and
the control and measurements procedures;
(d) schedule of unit prices; and
(e) the quantity estimate.
18.       The confidential report shall comprise the detailed cost estimate,
broken down into foreign costs, local cost and taxes. The foreign cost will
include, in particular, the following: depreciation of imported equipment,
imported materials and supplies, salaries and benefits for expatriate personnel
(but excluding any payments or expenses in local currency), overheads and
profits of the contractor, as well as the main foreign exchange cost of goods
produced in Guinea which are used in the project.
19.       The Government will supply the formats and other details necessary
for the preparation of written documents.



ANNEX 6
-51-
GUINEA
SECOND HIGHIWAY PROJECT
Road Design Standards
Design Speed (km/hr)
100         80         60         40
ROAD WIDTH
Pavement (m)                                    7          7         6          6
Shoulders (m)                                 1.5       1.5        1.0       1.0
HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT
Horizontal Curves Minimum Radii
Normal (m)                                 665       425        240        120
Absolute (m)                               425       240        120         40
Maximum Superelevation
Normal %                                     4         5          5          5
Absolute %                                   7          7         7          7
VERTICAL ALIGNMENT
Crest Curves Minimum Radii
Normal (m)                             12,000      6,000      3,000     1,500
Absolute (m)                             6,000     3,000      1,500        500
Sag Curves Minimum Radii
Normal (m)                               4,200     3,000      2,200     1,500
Absolute (m)                             3,000     2,200      1,500        700
Maximum Grades %                                5          6         7          8
Source
Consultants' Studies
Design Axle Load: 13t



- 52 -                       ANNEX 7
Page 1
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Public Works Laboratory
Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants' Services
Introduction
1.        The Guinean Directorate General of Roads and Bridges intends to
rehabilitate its National Laboratory, established before Guinean independence
(1958).  To do so, DGRB is seeking the assistance of a consulting engineering
firm experienced in soils, materials and foundation engineering and in soils
laboratory management.
Objectives:
2.        The objectives of the National Soils Laboratory are to:
(i) participate in, and in the long run, carry out all soils and
foundations studies involved in the design and construction
of civil works;
(ii)  participate in, and in the long run, carry out studies and
tests of construction materials; and
(iii)  be able to run as an autonomous government state entreprise.
Scope of Consulting Services
3.         The consulting firm will:
(i) assist the Government in the construction and installation of
the laboratory;
(ii)  assist the Government in the procurement of laboratory
equipment;
(iii) in its headquarters, provide a full year's training in the
management of a laboratory to the Guinean engineer who will
head the laboratory;
(iv)  train geo-technicians and laboratory workers in Guinea;
(v) assist the Government in the control of the execution of road
rehabilitation and maintenance, including on-the-job training
of soils technicians;
(vi)  set up an organization capable of running the laboratory tech-
nically and financially; and



- 53 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
(vii) help the Government to set up a library for studies of soils,
construction materials and foundations.
Qualifications of the Consulting Firm's Field Expert (30 man-months)
4.        The expert should hold a graduate degree in civil engineering with
a specialty in soils and foundation engineering, and should have at least
five years' experience in the field including management experience of soils
laboratories. He should have worked in a developing country, preferably in
Africa, and should be fluent in French.



- 54 -
ANNEX 8
GUINEA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training of DGRB Personnel
The First Highway Project provided for the training of personnel
for road rehabilitation and maintenance. The proposed project should expand
this effort to other sections of DGRB such as design, construction and soils
studies.
As the professional training of the engineers and technicians in
Guinea is mostly theoretical, the training should be geared to acquiring of
practical skills. For this purpose, the training of technicians and engineers
is included in each individual component of the project.
(i) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance (paras. 3.11, 3.12, and Annex 2)
Consultants will conduct on-the-job training of newly graduated road
engineers assigned to the project and train mechanics and equipment operators
in Conakry training center (at the central workshop). It is estimated that
24 mechanics and operators can be trained per year with a probable output of 60
men for the three-year program. The instruction in the training center will be
followed by on-the-job training within the regravelling and maintenance brigades.
The project also provides for ten fellowships abroad for further training of
engineers and technicians.
(ii) Soils and Materials Studies (para. 3.14 and Annex 7)
For three years, consultants will undertake on-the-job training of
four teams of technicians and laborers in soils explorations, soils and material
testing, and supervision of road rehabilitation and maintenance works. The
project also provides for ten fellowships in the consulting firms' headquarters
for further training of engineers and technicians in soils laboratory techniques
and management.
(iii) Preinvestment Studies (para. 3.18 and Annex 5)
The project will utilize the engineering group of DGRB. The group was
equipped under the First Highway Project, but its personnel was not sufficiently
trained, as the emphasis was put on the execution of road rehabilitation and
maintenance. While carrying out the preinvestment studies of Conakry-Kindia-
Mamou road, the consultants will train on-the-job an economist, an engineer,
and a team of Guinean technicians in the methods of road preinvestment studies,
including highway design, data collection and analysis, and economic appraisal.



GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND IlliWAY PROJECT
Economic Appraisal of Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program 1/2/
(US$'000)
Maintenance                                                                            Road Rehabilitation
Paved Roads       Gravel Roade _               North (Foutah-Diallon) (625 1km)               Kankan-Nzerekore Provinces (413 km)    Feeding to Conakry-Kankan Axis  51;1  k-)
(1087 km)            (1981 km)               Agricultural                  Agricultural  Capital Coets  Maintenance  Voc Savinge Capital Co.ts  Ma6itenance  Vc, ba'inga
Consultants 2/  Cost  Voc Savings  Cost  Voc Savingo  Roade  Expenditures  Voc Savinga              Output
1980       1000         1300                 1292       1123        940        782            250             175           619                            95             764                           140
1981        1005        1300        657      1292       1683       1043       3840            537            1336           619              69           278             764            100            213
1982        1005        1300       3220      1292       2271       1146       2434            756            2126           619             138           447             764            200           604
IQ83                    1300       4000      1292       2839        310       2072            794            3450                           207           536                            299          I7 l
1984                    1300       5037      1292       3414        310       1702           834             4562                           207           564                            299           799
1985                    1300       5037      1292       3990        310       1591            875            6570                           207           592                            299           840
1986                                                                310       1591            919           10067                           207           622                            299           882
1987                                                                310       1591            960            9216                           207           651                            299           925
1988                                                                          1591                           9710
1989-99                                                                           1591                          9802
EMR=             78%  ERR=        over 100%             ERR- 54%                                                  ERR  11%                                     ERR. 147
% drop in benefits   X drop in benefite                 % Drop in benefits
to yield 12% ERIR:51  to yield 12X ERR:46               to yield 127 ERR:  68
BCR(12%)-    2.0:1   BCR(12%)=         1.8:1
ERR Summary
Overail program                        49%
Excluding consultants                  56%
15X increase in equipment conts        477
15% increase in operating coste        44%
IZ  All costs and benefits expressed in July 1979 pricen, shadow prices and excbange rate per para. 4.04, using voc's derived from the Nighway Destgn Model and shown in para. 4.03 of text.
2/ Includes *hared equipment and vorkshops. Excludes National Laboratory and pre-investment *tudy (9% of project costs), whose specific benefits are not quantifiable.
3 O Cn roado Ciot rebabilitated under the project.  Average 50 adt



-56-
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PROPOSED SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
B.   Reports Relating to Project
Ministere des Travaux Publics, Urbanisme et Habitat/Louis Berger
International, Inc.,/Tractionel. PREMIER PROJET ROUTIER, RAPPORT
INTERIMAIRE, Mai 1978
B1. Annexes I et II
Deuxieme Programme de Remise en Etat et d'Entretien Routier
B2. Annex III (Laboratoire)
C.   Selected Working Papers
CI. Calculation of Allocations by Category
C2. Miscellaneous Working Papers
,



nowo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~P1w~lP~al~- 
'v                OjP      lfi ta  Wi t N  't.t                                                                                                                                                                      Pst-J   1l - *tE    
>'    -,'                                                                 ;m-    r-T  diVt, PsI-
c--                                   ' L9'N| ; W1-=1fi;    5                 -w :   g;.#- Ol: 't    b:l 0    L                    o O       t;, o. dOt                                                         sp~Ptui etierto itoa-
<-2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-m
<3 DlAaç3<} 0 2 ................... j; < A sS9 w                                                                                                                                  I,e
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fo    DZ    `i   ne  ç09   av    t    0  :   lro
"e- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ P~
-  /   tUDnOJ3       ;_.<u                   t    J /:°.: --.q38N O0 S 1                                                                                     HI  a    H C\< HONAO»   GSLOdOUd
r 4 _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                                                                                                                         t TX0UUS    a°>3
*..tttlQ                                   S
l     ;   - ;L d 3f li   t    w 1"d~j-u    !:   3  4 %Bl  q i
*g r 1  0>                                                                                                                                                                                                                ; ,   g   :>Ji   :Q.:   r vr Arr g ' « 3; ~ ~- . 0   ,J
y   !   ., H Erflt.;. DrSe    -.LAlrnBrHlt: ,.;' ir:! -fi-. >,r al; a-Xe .WLJ:I' e 5çR  :  aL  8   r     liroxoroFr-,,   v          .                 ,    ,    5            -JX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v
_f  ,:,  d  .1,.,.  ,."o  r,nilr ,! -  " r  ,n,  !  :r3 Sl s - fJ  R: 5 -L u jI 1 r = 2 E * r L 2_ t" -  ` t Vll- V " k es
- . ]8 al ' ] F: * S ! rr;!,L i *: - **ar f f W i i 0 ! { X 



