Document of
The World Bank  FuLE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2514a-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND
AN EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 28, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =       Syli
US$1.00            =      20 Sylis
Syli 1.00          =      US$0.05
Syli 1 million     =      US$50,000
M1ASURES
I m2                       3.28 ft.
1 m                =      10.76 sq. ft
1 km2              =       0.62 mile
1 km               =       0.38 sq. mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            African Development Bank
BADEA          Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CCUMECON       Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
COTRA          Road Transport Company
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DGRB           Directorate General of Roads and Bridges
FED            European Development Fund
EEC            European Economic Community
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOT            Ministry of Transport
MPC            Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
MPW            Ministry of Public Works
OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
ONRR           Office National Rail-Route
OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Amount:            US$13.0 million (IDA)
US$4.0 million (EEC Special Action Credit)
Terms:             Standard
Co-lender:         BADEA - US$6.0 million; terms - 16 years including 4 years
grace at 4 percent interest
Project            The project constitutes the second phase of a long-term
Description:      program begun in 1976 with IDA's help to provide an
adequate and properly maintained road infrastructure
to support Guinea's economic development. It consists
of (i) a three-year phase of road rehabilitation (1500 km)
and maintenance (4600 km), including purchase of highway
and workshop equipment, spare parts, fuel, materials and
supplies, fellowships and 243 man-months of technical
assistance to the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for
project implementation and training; (ii) renovation of
the existing National Public Works (Soils) Laboratory and
its equipment and 36 man-months of technical assistance for
training its staff; and (iii) consultant services for
preparing a feasibility study and detailed engineering for
reconstruction of sections of the Conakry-Mamou road, and
training of MPW staff to be the nucleus of a new Studies
and Programming Division. About seventy percent of direct
project benefits from vehicle operating cost savings would
accrue to the state-owned transport organizations and the
Government; private drivers and operators generally engaged
in passenger transport would receive the remainder. By
improving mobility and the transport of goods and people,
the project will also benefit the Guinean economy as a
whole. The project builds on the experience acquired under
the First Highway Project and presents no special technical
risks. Included in it are measures to help the Government
overcome past difficulties in management and in mobilizing
adequate financial resources for road maintenance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Foreign
------(US$'000) ------      as Z
Foreign  Local    Total  of Total
Category of Expenditure
A.   Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance         19,562   6,882   26,444    74
Equipment and Spare Parts                 8,811        0    8,811   100
Operating costs for road
rehabilitation                         5,977   3,492    9,469    63
Incremental recurrent costs for
road maintenance                       1,527   3,068    4,595    33
Construction of Offices and Workshops       304      202       506    60
Technical Assistance and Fellowships    2,943        120    3,063    96
B.   Improvements to Soils Laboratory               904       89      993    91
Building Extension                           110      74       184    60
Equipment, Materials, and Supplies           387       0       387   100
Technical Assistance and Fellowships         407      15       422    96
C.   Preinvestment Studies of Conakry-Mamou
Road                                      1.166      130    1,296    90
TOTAL PROJECT COST (net of tax)    21.632   7,101   28,732    75
(21,600) (7,100) (28,700)  (75)
Of which:
Base Cost                 18,726   6,480   25,206    74
Physical Contingencies        639     249       888    72
Price Contingencies        2,267      372    2,639    86
Taxes on Fuel and
Lubricants 1/                      0   3,200    3,200       0
TOTAL PROJECT COST (including tax) 21,600  10,300   31,900    67
1/   The Government has agreed to exempt the project from taxes and duties,
apart from those on fuel and lubricants. Taxes estimated at US$3.2
million have therefore been included in the local cost of these items.



- iii -
Rate of Return:    49 percent
Financing Plan:
(Including Taxes)                                 ------- US$ million----…
Foreign   Local   Taxes   Total
IDA                                    11.3       1.7      -      13.0
EEC Special Action Fund                 3.8       0.2       -      4.0
BADEA                                   6.0        -        -      6.0
Government                              0.5       5.2      3.2     8.9
TOTAL                  21.6       7.1     3.2    31.9
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY              80       81        82        83
…-   S$ million…------…---
IDA
Annual              3.0       3.8      4.2       2.0
Cumulative          3.0       6.8     11.0      13.0
EEC
Annual              3.0       1.0       0         0
Cumulative          3.0       4.0       0         0
Staff Appraisal
Report:            2363-GUI, dated August 20, 1979
Map:                IBRD 14076.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECCMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AND AN EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
credits to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for the equivalent
of US$17.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Second Highway
Project. One credit of US$13.0 million would be made from IDA resources. A
second credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent would be made from the EEC
Special Action Account, administered by the Association in accordance with
the terms of the agreement of May 2, 1978 between the Association and the
European Economic Community. The Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(BADEA) has agreed to provide a loan to Guinea for the equivalent of US$6.0
million to help finance specific project components. This loan would have a
term of 16 years including 4 years grace with interest at 4 percent per annum
plus a service charge of 0.5 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report (No. Af-63b, dated September 1, 1967)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 22, 1968. From 1970
to 1977 a number of economic missions visited the country which identified the
major structural constraints on the expansion of output and incomes and
provided the basis for an increasingly active dialogue on development policy
issues. Our last economic mission took place in March 1979, and its findings
and those of earlier missions are reflected in the following assessment of the
state of the economy and its prospects.
Background Conditions
3.        Guinea is potentially one of the richest countries in West Africa
with substantial natural resources in the rural sector, mining, and to a
lesser extent hydroelectric power. Its broad range of eco-climatic zones,
from the sub-Saharan north to sub-tropical mountain areas in the center and
tropical forest in the south, allows the production of a variety of agricul-
tural commodities. At the time of Independence in 1958, Guinea was the
leading African exporter of bananas and also exported considerable quan-
tities of coffee, pineapple and palm oil; it was also able to meet most of its
basic foodstuff requirements. In particular, the natural conditions for rice
and livestock are suitable for expanded production. Guinea's mining potential
includes bauxite reserves tentatively estimated at 8 billion tons, the largest



-2-
in the world, while readily exportable high-grade iron ore deposits are
estimated at about two billion tons. Diamond and gold deposits have been
identified and prospects for uranium mining and offshore oil exploration
are being actively investigated.
Past Performance
4.        Notwithstanding Guinea's promising resource endowment, economic
performance from the time of Independence until 1972 was disappointing.
While lack of adequate data prevents a detailed assessment, estimated real
growth of GNP during this period was less than 2.5 percent annually, lower
than the annual estimated population growth rate of 2.9 percent. Agricultural
exports practically vanished and Guinea became a net food importer, including
of rice, its staple food. The years following Independence were characterized
by a comprehensive reorganization of all economic and social activities in
Guinea with a view to building a socialist economy. This entailed (a) a sharp
curtailment of the private sector and the establishment of Government trading
companies operating at controlled prices, (b) the creation of numerous other
public enterprises, and (c) extensive State investment in industrial and
social infrastructure. Returns on many projects were limited by managerial
inexperience and planning inadequacies, and public enterprises absorbed high
and rising amounts of Government resources. The capital costs and recurrent
deficits of public investment soon exceeded budgetary savings and the Govern-
ment resorted to heavy foreign borrowing and Central Bank advances to finance
them. Foreign borrowing from Western and centrally planned economies was
carried out on an ad hoc basis and soon resulted in unmanageable debt obliga-
tions that could not be met by declining export proceeds. At the same time
the liberal advances of the Central Bank led to a huge increase in money
supply, galloping inflation and an overvalued exchange rate for the Syli.
Consequently the public trading enterprises could neither obtain adequate
supplies of local goods at official prices nor distribute them widely enough,
and an active parallel market developed with prices substantially higher than
official levels. Furthermore, the lack of foreign exchange caused sharp
reductions in imports of raw materials and intermediate inputs, which con-
strained production in manufacturing, agriculture and consumer goods. The
economy thus stagnated in a vicious circle of foreign exchange shortages, poor
incentives, and declining investments, output and exports.
5.        While lack of foreign exchange sharply limited the supply of im-
ported goods, and indirectly of local products as well, excess money supply
strongly stimulated local demand, contributing from that side to the growing
imbalance between supply and demand at official prices. As a result of 15
years of deficit financing, money supply reached a high level of nearly 70
percent of GDP in 1972 or over three times the level attained in most other
West African countries. Most of this money overhang was concentrated in
the urban areas where it aggravated the severe excess demand situation and
absorbed much of the limited supply of goods that would otherwise have been
available to the rural areas.



- 3 -
6.         These trends created considerable difficulties for the people.
The rural population, about 80 percent of the total, operated principally
at a subsistence level, selling as little as possible on the official mar-
ket, and was largely excluded from the official distribution of imported
consumer goods. On the other hand, the urban population had to compete for
the limited supply of goods it could buy through official channels with
rationing cards and supplement its needs in the unofficial market at very
high prices. Large segments of the urban population were thus affected by
the system as much as the average farmer.
7.        With the start of two large bauxite mining operations, there was an
abrupt rise in economic output. GNP increased by 33 percent between 1973 and
1977 in real terms, but stagnated in 1978 mainly because of the severe drought
in 1977-78 and a levelling off of mining output as production approached full
capacity. By 1978 per capita GDP reached about US$230. The rural sector
continues to dominate the economy, although its share in GDP fell from 50% in
1963-64 to around 40% in 1976-78, while the mining sector contribution
doubled, from 11% to 23% over the last 15 years. With the exception of the
mining sector, characterized by mixed ownership since Independence, the modern
sector continues to be State-owned while agricultural policies and public
investment have encouraged collectivization and large-scale mechanized opera-
tions.
Recent Policy Trends
8.         The productive and financial bases for a more dynamic economy have
been strengthened over the last five years, although the country's economic
development is still hampered by structural problems. This improvement in
underlying conditions, brought about initially by the new mining operations,
was further encouraged by the gradual adoption of more outward-oriented
policies, particularly over the last three years vis-a-vis western coun-
tries, and neighboring countries notably the Ivory Coast and Senegal in
1978.
9.         Increased gross domestic output, especially for exports, and a
stricter control of aggregate demand allowed Guinea to achieve a balance of
trade surplus in 1977 and 1978, although the overall balance of payments
has remained in deficit at about US$90 million per annum over the last three
years. This deficit has been financed through accumulation of debt arrears
and by a further decrease of gross official reserves, barely covering one
month of imports at the end of 1978, as compared to almost three months at the
end of 1975. While nearly half of gross export earnings has been used to pay
for both direct foreign exchange costs of mining operations and mining related
debt service, the remainder has gone mainly to increase imports of essential
raw materials, foodstuffs and consumer goods, with a view to providing more
current inputs for manufacturing and agriculture, and more incentives to
producers. In the agricultural sector these measures have been comple-
mented by a number of actions intended to increase production, such as more
rural public investment, and more deliberate efforts to improve distribution



-4-
of consumer goods in the hinterland. Investment, however, has been concen-
trated on mechanized and ox traction brigades whose output has been dis-
appointing. Furthermore, inadequate producer prices and poor distribution of
goods to rural producers through official trade channels remain serious
obstacles.
10.       Higher bauxite exports and favorable world market conditions have
greatly increased Government revenue through taxation and sharing of profits.
Thus, since 1975 Government current revenues and in particular tax revenue
have increased markedly faster (23-24% p.a.) than GDP (about 9.4% p.a.), while
public recurrent expenditures have increased at a moderate 12% per year, half
as fast as revenues. Part of this additional revenue has been turned over to
the Central Bank for amortization of accumulated Central Bank advances, and
has served to sterilize some of the money overhang. Government expenditures
have increased only moderately. These deflationary measures have led to a
marked reduction of the money supply in relation to the GDP, an estimated 50%
fall in prices on the parallel market over the last three years, and some
improvement in the real purchasing power of most of Guinea's poorest popula-
tion. Also, the Government has demonstrated a desire to better maintain and
fully exploit existing capital assets, and has begun to allocate a larger
proportion of its recurrent budget for much needed maintenance expenses and
the purchase of spare parts. Importantly, the Government is also undertaking
an examination of the viability of public enterprises; a few of the least
successful have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation
programs, sometimes with external assistance. The Government's objective is
to make these enterprises self-sufficient and it has therefore recognized the
need to revise pricing policies to enhance cash flows, ensure adequate credit
to maintain working capital and stocks, and call upon foreign technical
assistance (including post-rehabilitation management assistance) to strengthen
operational efficiency. Finally, the Government, which has de facto tolerated
private trading since 1977, recently legalized it as part of a move towards
lessening restrictions on the circulation of goods and people internally and
across national borders.
11.       Outside the mining sector on the one hand, and the subsistence
economy on the other, private investment is practically nil. The third
and most recent development plan covered the period October 1973 to December
1978. Its original forecasts called for an investment outlay of US$2.9
billion, of which US$1.8 billion, or 64.6 percent of total investment, was to
be in semipublic joint ventures with foreign investors (mainly in the mining
sector). The plan was later scaled down to US$1.7 billion, to take into
account delays in the implementation of iron ore projects at Mount Nimba
and Simandou, and of bauxite mines at Dabola and Tougue; actual investment
expenditure was finally estimated at US$1.3 billion, or 72.3 percent of the
revised projections, of which 43% was financed by foreign capital inflows.
Foreign borrowing was particularly heavy between 1973-1975, when it covered
almost three-quarters of investment financing, as compared to less than
one-fifth during the 1976-78 period. Large outlays in connection with pur-
chase of equipment for rural production brigades, as well as for the transport



-5-
sector, were the main components in the high investment levels in the 1973-76
period, to the tune of about US$270 million per annum. In 1977-78, partly
because of reduced availability of foreign financing, investment outlays fell
to less than US$200 million per annum.
Prospects
12.       Guinea's long-run development prospects are good.  However, the
Government has not yet defined its development priorities for the next Plan
period, other than the customary major projects whose financing is sought
abroad. Based on Bank Group economic analysis and projections, it appears
that Guinea's short and mediun term economic development prospects will
hinge critically on the rate of growth in the mining sector, while long term
prospects will be affected by rural development. Mining exports increased
from US$61 million in 1973 to about US$300 million in 1977-78. They are
likely to reach about US$410 million in 1980, if all operations produce and
export at full capacity, or some US$370 million if production levels do not
increase. Despite this favorable evolution, the foreign exchange situation
will remain tight and will become particularly critical if no new major
sources of foreign exchange are identified in the near future. This situation
is determined by (a) the high foreign exchange content of the operating costs
in mining projects (up to half of gross export receipts); (b) increasingly
high debt service obligations, including substantial arrears; and (c) import
requirements for operation of the manufacturing, transport and other sectors,
as well as for imports of foodstuff and consumer goods. Guinea will therefore
need substantial amounts of external assistance to support its balance of
payments until at least 1985.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
13.       Over the past few years, Guinea has been diversifying its sources
of foreign assistance. Renewed ties with the Western industrialized coun-
tries, expanded relations with such OPEC countries as Algeria, Iraq, Libya,
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and with multilateral sources have altered the past
situation. Both the Bank Group and IMF have maintained a dialogue with the
Government on a wide range of policy matters, and Guinea has qualified for
drawings under the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund facilities.
14.       However over the years the accumulation of foreign debt to finance
investments in public infrastructure and public enterprises, as well as public
consumption, have resulted in a burden of foreign obligations which is and
will remain for years a major problem. Guinea's external public debt reached
US$1.2 billion as of December 31, 1978, of which US$906 million was disbursed
and outstanding. This represents about three-quarters of GDP. Loans denomi-
nated in convertible currency amounted to somewhat less than half the total
debt, and loans under bilateral clearing accounts to a little over half.
Limited foreign exchange earnings have hindered the payment of debt service,
and notwithstanding the negotiation of several rescheduling agreements,
outstanding arrears on loans due in convertible currency totalled US$115



-6-
million at the end of 1978. During 1978 debt service due to all foreign
creditors amounted to US$116 million of which only US$64 million was actually
paid. In that year the ratio of debt service payments due to gross export
earnings was about 33 percent, and 48 percent when debt service on private
borrowings, i.e. that owed by the two mixed bauxite companies, is included.
15.       Service for debt outstanding at December 31, 1978 will average
US$136 million p.a. over the 1979-81 period. Even if foreign capital
inflows cover the entire foreign exchange costs of new investments, arrears
between 1979-81 are likely to rise further, at a pace provisionally esti-
mated at US$60 million per annum, of which two-thirds in convertible cur-
rency. Service on new commitments would of course further increase this
amount. With limited scope to maneuver, the Government has addressed the
problem through debt rescheduling programs negotiated bilaterally with some
creditors, and measures to improve debt management through the newly estab-
lished External Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank has
provided technical advice as part of its economic work. The Government has
also undertaken a stricter control of investments financed by external
credits, and a more judicious import program. During the next few years,
Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of foreign assistance on
concessionary terms not only for investment purposes but also to provide
foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer goods imports, which are vital
to stimulate economic activity and relieve supply constraints particularly in
the rural sector. Furthermore, despite the Government's achievements in
keeping the growth of current consumption expenditures below the growth of
revenue, net public savings after debt service will be negligible and local
cost financing by external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
16.       To date, the Bank Group has financed seven operations in Guinea.
Two loans totalling US$73.5 million in 1968 and 1971 financed infrastructure
for the Boke bauxite mining project. IDA credits of US$7.0 million, US$14
million, and US$8.0 million respectively were granted in June 1975 for a
pineapple development project, in December 1975 for a first road maintenance
project, and in September 1978 for a first education project. In January 1979
two credits were signed, one of US$12.5 million for a first water supply and
sanitation project; the second, US$1.1 million for a power engineering and
repair project. Annex II contains a sunmary of Bank loans and IDA credits
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of July 31, 1979.
17.       In view of the general shortage of foreign exchange and the poor
state of infrastructure in Guinea, the Bank Group's first projects aimed at
promoting mining and agricultural exports and rehabilitating the road system.



-7-
The Boke project was completed satisfactorily and bauxite output has increased
steadily. Despite some delays in execution, the Daboya project is now export-
ing fresh fruit to Europe and a second pineapple project based on expanded
smallholder development is under consideration. The First Highway project
followed shortly after the Daboya credit and has been largely successful in
rehabilitating and maintaining a major part of the road infrastructure network
vital for agricultural development.
18.       Government priorities, which include (i) upgrading and maintaining
basic infrastructure, (ii) development of human resources, (iii) expansion of
mining, and (iv) rural development, generally coincide with Bank Group objec-
tives. Encouraged by our experience in the execution of earlier projects, we
are preparing follow-up or new operations in each of these four sectors, with
particular emphasis on sectoral planning, institution building and training.
The Water Supply and Power Engineering Projects, the latter initially concen-
trating on the deteriorated system in Conakry, and a more comprehensive First
Power Project to be appraised in late 1979, concentrate on the first objec-
tive. The proposed Second Highway Project further supports this strategy and
would expand the road rehabilitation and maintenance work begun under the
First Highway Project. It would also strengthen certain sector institutions
to help Guineans acquire and successfully apply the engineering and technical
skills necessary to plan, design, and implement road transport projects. The
Association's First Education Project arose out of the clear need for more
trained technical manpower and aims to assist the Government in improving and
expanding training programs for industrial technicians and skilled workers
with emphasis on institution building. Because of the vital importance of
mining in helping alleviate the country's foreign exchange shortage, the Bank
Group is also considering further intervention in this sector. Feasibility
studies are being reviewed for the Nimba Iron Ore Mining project.
19.       The Government of Guinea gives a high priority to development of
its agricultural and livestock potential. It is in the rural sector, however,
that the country is experiencing the greatest difficulty in harnessing its
development potential. The Bank Group has attempted to support this Govern-
ment priority but has found it difficult to find non-enclave projects suitable
for financing. Basic institutional support for the rural sector, economic
incentives to farmers and herdsmen, the use of modern technology, as well
as applied agricultural research activity are virtually non-existent in the
country. This affects the willingness of Guinean farmers to respond to rural
development efforts. To come to grips with these fundamental issues we
have been working with Government to prepare a first series of projects which
entail direct intervention in the livestock and rice sectors. The proposed
Rice Development Project being presented simultaneously stresses institution
building at the national level; in addition, it would introduce on a pilot
basis low cost improved rice production methods to test farmer response in a
remote but potentially highly productive part of the country. A livestock
project, now in its final stages of preparation, would aim at institutional
strengthening of the Ministry's livestock development capacity, improvements
through veterinary measures of animal health and productivity, and selective



-8-
training of livestock extension staff. In order to get the full benefit from
the technical and institutional strengthening anticipated under these and
future rural development projects, the agricultural extension service must be
strengthened throughout. Such improvements may be undertaken as part of a
second education project now under consideration.
20.       The Bank Group's share in Guinea's external debt outstanding and
disbursed and of total public debt service amounted to 8.4 percent and 14.2
percent respectively in 1978 with IDA representing one-fifth of Bank Group
commitments and a negligible proportion of service payments. By 1985 the Bank
Group's share in debt outstanding will be about 7 percent but with a larger
proportion of it IDA; because most of the debt presently owed the Bank will be
amortized by the mid-eighties and payments on new IDA borrowings will not yet
be due, IBRD's share of debt service will drop to 2 percent, while that of IDA
will remain insignificant.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
21.       Guinea's transport system consists of about 14,000 km of classified
primary, secondary, and feeder roads, 1,100 km of railways, two deep water
ports and ten airfields. The central Conakry - Mamou - Dabola - Kankan
corridor (see Map) has traditionally been the main artery of the country. It
consists of a 600 km railway built 70 years ago, paralleled by a highway which
is gravel from Mamou onwards. A secondary route branches southeast from Mamou
to Kissidougou and eventually to N'zerekore, and a northern route leads
eastward from the port of Kamsar. Over the years railway traffic has fallen.
In 1977 it consisted of only 12,500 tons of goods compared to 27,000 tons in
1973, and 417,000 passengers, of which over 90 percent were commuters. The
railway's ability to maintain and renew equipment and infrastructure has also
declined. A FED consultant recently reviewed the status and prospects of the
railway. The network of roads and railways is adequate in relation to popula-
tion distribution and economic potential.
Organization
22.       There are many ministries sharing responsibility for transport
sector planning and management. The Ministry of Transport (MOT) is respon-
sible for regulation of the sector and investment planning for ports, railways
and airports. The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) looks after planning and
execution of road construction and maintenance. The plans for the transport
sector are reviewed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Ministry
of Planning and Cooperation which coordinates the Government's overall invest-
ment program and seeks foreign financing.



-9-
23.       Poor coordination, compounded by weak planning and management
capability at all levels, is the central problem in the transport sector.
Sound guidelines and well-defined programs for future investment are lacking
and neither MOT nor the Ministry of Planning has the capacity to effectively
analyze investment plans or ensure overall transport coordination. Moreover,
investment planning by MOT is discharged through the various bodies directly
responsible for transport management (the railway, port authorities, and the
Conakry airport), and very little arbitration takes place before the proposals
reach the Ministry of Planning.
24.       In addition to the management problems mentioned above, coordination
of road/rail traffic has been poor since the abolition in November 1975 of
the Office National Rail-Route, which formerly was responsible for transport
coordination. Road transport was reorganized under a new trucking agency
called COTRA (Road Transport Company) with a fleet numbering about 500 trucks,
whereas the railway became an autonomous enterprise. COTRA, with a truckers'
cooperative in each of the seven provinces of Guinea, is responsible for
intra- and inter-regional freight movement by road and provides a reasonable
level of freight service. As a start toward helping ameliorate the planning
and coordination problems in the road sector, the proposed project would in-
troduce within MPW a capability for investment planning and project prepara-
tion.
Plans and Investments
25.       Reliable information on the transport system and commodity flows in
Guinea is very limited and it is therefore difficult to make a comprehensive
assessment of the sector and its needs. The lack of qualified planning staff
and the absence of a specific transport policy were reflected in the overly
ambitious 1973/74-1977/78 Five Year Development Plan.  The plan proposed a
total investment in the transport sector of about US$386 million, approxi-
mately 40 percent of total public investment. It placed major emphasis on:
construction of selected primary roads and bridges; improvement of road
maintenance; and improvement of ports, airports, and rail and road transport.
The Plan was suspended in 1974 when the Government realized that the goals
were unrealistic. Of the seven major paving projects, only one, the
Kissidougou-Kankan road, was completed. The Government's recognition that a
large paving program was premature in view of the relatively low traffic
volumes on the primary road network marked the beginning of a more appropriate
strategy for the road sector. The change in emphasis was illustrated by the
Government's acceptance in 1975 of IDA assistance in the rehabilitation and
improved maintenance of some 2,500 kms of primary interregional roads.
The Road Sector
26.       Of the existing classified road network, some 7,000 km are inter-
regional roads. Much of the primary network has been paved, the length of
paved roads having increased from 190 km in 1967 to over 1,000 km at present.
However, the remaining network consists of extremely poor gravel and earth
roads. With a lack of adequate maintenance, Guinea's roads have been deteri-
orating rapidly.



- 10 -
27.       Over the past fifteen years, the Government has attached consider-
able importance to upgrading the links from the coast to the interior. The
main focus has been on major roads from the country's two principal ports
including (i) the paving of the central Conakry-Mamou route paralleling the
main railw- line and leading eastwards to Kankan; (ii) the paving of a
southern route leading from Mamou south-eastwards to Kissidougou and ulti-
mately to the forest region; and (iii) the rehabilitation of a northern route
running eastwards from the new port of Kamsar to Boke and the Foutah-Djallon
area around Labe. Attention has also been given to upgrading key secondary
road links feeding into the central Conakry-Mamou axis. While recognizing
the need for an all-weather road between Conakry and Kankan, the Government
appears to have opted to delay upgrading the Mamou-Kankan road, possibly in
order to protect declining rail traffic within the corridor, and instead,
has just completed paving the road from Kissidougou to Kankan which thus
provides a through paved road (although a circuitous one) from Kankan to
the capital, outside the zone of influence of the railway.
28.       Road users contribute substantially to Government revenues through
annual vehicle registration and inspection fees, transport licenses and
import duties and taxes on vehicles and fuel. Estimates indicate that total
revenue from these sources totalled about US$25.0 million equivalent in 1977.
There is a clear need for allocation of increased proportions of these funds
to highway maintenance as past funding has been inadequate. Under the First
Project the Government has already budgeted more revenues for this purpose.
For the proposed second, it has agreed to gradually increase funding so that
by project completion it would be financing the full cost of maintaining the
roads upgraded under IDA's two projects.
Bank Group Role
29.       IDA's highway sector strategy, with which the Government is in
agreement, aims at improving Guinea's road infrastructure while creating
in MPW a capable and technically competent sector institution. IDA's First
Highway Project (Credit 596-GUI, FY76, US$14.0 million) is nearly completed
and helped rehabilitate about 2,500 km of high priority national roads. While
it attempted primarily to remove the serious physical obstacles to transport,
the project began to develop basic technical and managerial skills. The
proposed Second Highway Project would continue these efforts, with special
emphasis on road sector planning and project preparation and on effective
financial arrangements for sector operations. A possible Third Project could
involve reconstruction of one of Guinea's main highways.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       The project was conceived as the second step of a long-term program
begun in 1976 with IDA's help to provide an adequate and properly maintained
road infrastructure to support Guinea's economic development. Specifically,



- 11 -
the project continues and virtually completes the backlog rehabilitation of
the high-priority primary and secondary roads, extends and reinforces highway
maintenance over this network, and prepares the way for further road develop-
ment by improving the sectoral planning and execution capacity of the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW).
31.       The project was prepared by the Government and consultants under
the First Highway Project, and a preparation report was submitted to IDA in
August 1978, with appraisal following in October 1978. Negotiations were
held in Washington from July 23 to 30, 1979. The Guinean delegation was
led by His Excellency, Mr. Abraham Kabassan Keita, Minister of Public Works.
The Staff Appraisal Report No. 2363-GUI, dated August 20, 1979, has been
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data
appear in Annex III. The attached Map (IBRD 14070) shows the roads to be
rehabilitated and maintained under the project.
Project Description
32.       The proposed project would consist of a three-year program of road
rehabilitation (1,548 km) and maintenance (4,622 km including the 1,548 km),
strengthening of the National Public Works (Soils) Laboratory, and preinvest-
ment studies for reconstruction of some sections of the 250-km Conakry-Mamou
road.  The project would provide for:
(i) purchase of highway and workshop equipment and spare parts;
fuel, materials and supplies for the operating costs of
road rehabilitation and incremental recurrent costs of
highway maintenance; and fellowships and the continuation
of technical assistance to MPW for project implementation
and training (243 man-months);
(ii) renovation of the existing soils laboratory and its
equipment, and technical assistance for training its
staff (36 field man-months); and
(iii) consultant services for preparing a feasibility study and
detailed engineering for reconstruction of the Conakry-
Mamou road; in carrying out this study, consultants
would train MFW staff counterparts who would form the
nucleus of a new Studies and Programming Division.
Project Implementation
33.       The MPW through its Directorate General of Roads and Bridges (DGRB)
will be responsible for implementation of the project. DGRB will be assisted
by consultants to be selected in agreement with and under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02 of draft DCA and draft EEC Special Action
Credit Agreement). Training, with the help of consultants, of equipment
operators and mechanics will continue at the training center in Conakry,
built and equipped under the First Highway Project. On-the-job training of



- 12 _
semi-skilled laborers will continue within the regravelling and maintenance
brigades, and special attention will be given to training of accountants and
store-keepers. As DGRB intends to strengthen its planning and design capabil-
ities, the consultants' terms of reference for the feasibility study include
training of Guinean engineers and economists as counterparts co the consul-
tants team. This small group, having been trained and having acquired some
experience in the techniques of economic analysis, would become the basis of a
Studies and Programming Unit in MPW, whose responsibilities would include
planning and budgeting. The project will take about three and a half years to
complete. Agreement was obtained from the Government at negotiations that it
would submit a project completion report to IDA within three months of the
final disbursement (Section 3.04(c) draft DCA and draft EEC Special Action
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost
34.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$31.9 million
equivalent of which taxes on non-exempt items (fuel and lubricants) are
estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent. The foreign exchange cost is US$21.6
million (75% of the cost net of taxes) and the local cost US$7.1 million
equivalent. The project cost includes the capital costs of US$24.1 million
for road rehabilitation, the National Public Works Laboratory and the pre-
investment study, and incremental recurrent costs of about US$4.6 million
to expand road maintenance on Guinea's priority road network. Cost estimates
are based on July 1979 prices and include physical contingencies of 10
percent and price contingencies ranging from 6 to 7.5 percent per annum.
Costs of consultant services are estimated to average US$6,500 per month plus
reimbursable expenses of US$3,500 per month.
Financing Plan
35.       The foreign exchange cost of the project, estimated at US$21.6 mil-
lion, would be financed as follows: US$11.3 million from IDA, about US$3.8
million from the EEC Special Action Account, US$6.0 million from BADEA, and
US$500,000 from the Government, the latter item representing part of the
direct foreign cost of recurrent expenditures for routine maintenance. Local
costs would be borne by the Government (US$5.2 million), IDA (US$1.7 million),
and the EEC Special Action Account (US$0.2 million). The Government would
pay for all taxes on non-exempt items, which would amount to about US$3.2
million. The following table shows the breakdown of the financing plan (net
of taxes) by component and sources of financing:



- 13 -
(US$ thousands)
IDA               EEC             BADEA           Government
Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local
Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance
Equipment and spare parts   2,460         -    2,900        -    2,850
Workshop equipment and
tools                           -       -       600      -         -
Operating costs, road
rehabilitation              3,750  1,400          -      -    2,180    -          -  2,230
Incremental recurrent
costs, road maintenance   1,000         -         -      -         -    -       500  2,970
Buildings                         -       -       300    200            -            -      -
Technical assistance
and fellowships             1,970    120          -      -       970
National Public Works
(Soils) Laboratory              900    100                           -
Conakry-Mamou Road
Preinvestment Study           1,170    130          -      -         -               -      -
11,250  1,750    3,800       200   6,000    -        500  5,200
TOTAL (rounded)               13,000             4,000        6,000               5,700
Continuation of Financing of Road Maintenance
36.       Inadequate attention to routine maintenance in the past has been
the basic cause for the deterioration of Guinea's road network; this inatten-
tion was reflected in the absence of appropriate mechanisms for the timely
provision of foreign exchange and local currency to cover capital and operat-
ing costs of road maintenance. In the First Highway Project, whose physical
execution has resulted in the rehabilitation of 2500 km of the country's main
road network, the Government financed all of the local costs of the program
and thereby helped assure its successful completion, in close collaboration
with the Association, For the proposed project, Government agreed to continue
providing local financial support for a second phase of road rehabilitation;
the project moreover envisages expansion of routine maintenance operations
throughout the country to safeguard investments in construction and rehabili-
tation of roads. The financing plan proposed includes a US$1.0 million
contribution from IDA towards the recurrent foreign exchange costs of the
routine maintenance to be carried out during the project period. Government
will cover 100% of the local recurrent costs of routine maintenance and will
contribute US$0.5 million toward its recurrent foreign exchange costs as well.
IDA's US$1.0 million contribution will cover 100% of the foreign exchange
requirements of routine maintenance in the first year of the project, 2/3 of
the requirements in the second year, and 1/3 in the third. Government's



- 14 -
foreign exchange contributions will be progressively increased, beginning in
the second year, and will be used to cover the costs of imported fuel, lubri-
cants, and road construction materials.
37.           objective of the project is to have Government regularly budget-
ing adequate funds, in foreign exchange and local currency, to assure the
continuation of a coherent maintenance program after the end of the project.
A second objective is to have Government regularly allocating additional funds
to cover, on its own account, the foreign and local costs of further road
rehabilitation and other essential repairs to road infrastructure. By the end
of the project, Government would be expected to budget a minimum of US$5.4
million annually of which about $1.5 million should be in foreign exchange for
equipment replacement, spare parts, and other imported goods. If the experi-
ence of the ongoing project continues, equipment provided for road maintenance
under the first operation and that to be purchased under this one will have a
very high rate of utilization; it is probable, therefore, that replacement of
some major items would be required before the end of the project. Accord-
ingly, Government agreed during negotiations to make, after project comple-
tion, the annual minimum budgetary allocations mentioned above (to be adjusted
for inflation) and, in addition, to accept a concomitant obligation to budget,
in the last project year, a special tranche of about $1.5 million in foreign
exchange for replacing worn-out equipment and maintaining adequate stocks of
spare parts (Section 4.03(b) and (c) of draft DCA and Special Action Credit
Agreement).
38.       During execution of the First Project, it became obvious that
MPW would benefit greatly from the establishment of a revolving fund to
guarantee the timely availability of budgeted funds to MPW for the project's
local expenditures. Government therefore agreed at negotiations to establish
such a revolving fund and to regularly replenish it to a level of 20 million
Sylis; the operations of this fund would be regularly audited and its creation
would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA and Special Action Credits
(Section 3.01(b) of draft DCA and Special Action Credit Agreement). To
overcome the effects of Guinea's persistent scarcity of foreign exchange and
the cumbersome administrative controls over imports, the Government agreed
during negotiations to also set up a special foreign exchange mechanism for
MPW which would assure the timely availability to MPW of foreign currency for
imports of replacement equipment, spare parts and materials. It would not be
needed until 1982 (the third year of the project), but passing appropriate
legislation for its creation would be a precondition for disbursement by the
Association of US$1.5 million for equipment for the rehabilitation component
in late 1981 (Section 4.03(c)(i) of draft DCA and Special Action Credit
Agreement).
Procurement
39.       Items to be financed by IDA will be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. New
highway and workshop equipment and spare parts for existing MPW equipment
to be financed by the EEC Special Action Credit will be procured from the



- 15 -
original suppliers or from other eligible sources, according to the procure-
ment rules applying to the EEC Special Action Account. Equipment and mate-
rials to be financed in parallel by BADEA will be procured according to its
procurement rules. Equipment or groups of the same items of equipment with a
value of less than US$50,000 but in the aggregate not exceeding US$300,000 may
be procured on the basis of quotations from local suppliers or, where appro-
priate, by limited international tendering. Fuel and lubricants will be
bought from ONAH (about US$9.3 million including taxes) and cement (to be
financed by BADEA) from BATIPORT (about US$1.4 million). Both are the State-
owned sole suppliers of these items. Fuel and lubricants are part of the
Government's bulk procurement arrangements for the country. Supplies come
from IDA member countries and prices are reasonable. The possibility of
procuring cement through limited international tendering will be explored.
Construction of DGRB's office and workshops and the laboratory building (about
US$700,000) will be executed by DGRB and contractors selected after local
advertising and competitive bidding in accordance with procurement procedures
of the Government, acceptable to IDA.
40.       The Government intends to retain the services of consultants Louis
Berger International, Inc./Tractionel (USA/Belgium) to continue providing
technical assistance for the road' rehabilitation and maintenance program
begun under the First Highway Project. The consultants performance has been
satisfactory and BADEA has agreed to joint financing of this technical assis-
tance. The Government also intends to select CEBTP (France), who prepared
the project's soils laboratory component, to provide equipment and technical
assistance to the National Public Works Laboratory. CEBTP manages or
assists several state-owned road soils laboratories in French-speaking Africa,
and set up the original laboratory in Conakry before Guinea's independence in
1958. The preinvestment studies of the Conakry-Mamou road will be carried
out by qualifed and experienced consultants assisted by MPW staff counter-
parts.
Disbursement
41.       The proposed IDA credit of US$13.0 million would be disbursed on the
following basis:
(i)  100 percent of the cif cost of equipment and spare parts or
95 percent of the cost of imported items purchased locally;
(ii)  100 percent of the cif cost of bituminous paving materials and
supplies for road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance;
(iii)  for expenditures incurred under the Revolving Fund for road
rehabilitation and maintenance in project years 1, 2 and 3 respec-
tively: 46% of total costs to a maximum of US$1,900,000, 42% of
total costs to a maximum of US$1,800,000, and 37% of total costs to
a maximum of US$1,700,000, reflecting anticipated expenditures for
imported materials and supplies (except cement, culverts, and metal
products) procured locally and for wages for road rehabilitation;



- 16 -
(iv) 100% of the local costs and 67% of foreign costs for
consultants' services for road rehabilitation and main-
tenance; and
(v) 100% of total expenditures for the National Public Works
Laboratory, for the Conakry-Mamou road preinvestmei,L study,
and for auditing of project accounts.
The EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent would be
disbursed on the following basis:
(i)  100% of the cif cost, or 95% of the cost of items locally
procured for: highway equipment and spare parts, spare parts
for existing MPW equipment, and workshop and laboratory
equipment and tools;
(ii) 100% of total expenditures for construction of DGRB's
office and workshops.
These disbursement percentages have been calculated on the basis of c.i.f.
prices, taxes, and local markups on imported goods, and in view of the Govern-
ment's policy to exempt all goods directly imported for development projects
from all taxes and duties, and to require that such taxes be paid on locally-
purchased goods. The proposed BADEA loan would be disbursed on a pari passu
basis with the IDA Credit, for 33% of the foreign costs of consultants' ser-
vices for road rehabilitation and maintenance (US$970,000). BADEA would also
finance 100% of the foreign cost of about US$2.8 million of road maintenance
equipment and spare parts and about US$2.2 million for metal products, cul-
verts and cement for the road rehabilitation program.
Benefits and Risks
42.       The road rehabilitation and maintenance program and supporting
technical assistance (together amounting to 91 percent of total project cost)
would yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of 49 percent. The ERR for the
road rehabilitation component varies from 11 to 54 percent while the road
maintenance operations would yield ERR's of 78 percent on paved roads and over
100 percent on gravel roads. While the specific benefits of the technical
assistance cannot be quantified, their cost is included in the benefit-cost
calculation. With a 15 percent increase in equipment capital costs, the ERR
falls to 37 percent, which is still satisfactory. The benefits from reha-
bilitating the National Public Works Laboratory and from the study of the
Conakry-Mamou road cannot be quantified (9 percent of total project cost) and
therefore these components have not been included in calculating the overall
economic rate of return. The training components within each, however, are
expected to have a substantial institutional impact and to help prepare the
way for future highway development in Guinea.
43.       By improving mobility and the transport of goods and people, the
project would have a substantial impact on the Guinean economy as a whole.
To the extent that generated traffic is a proxy for increased production
in the areas of influence of the roads, the rural population living in the



regions served by the roads should benefit from easier access to national
markets. The project's direct benefits accrue to the operators of motor
vehicles, mainly the state-owned transport organizations and the Government.
They account for most of the truck traffic and about half the other traffic
(or about 60 percent of total traffic) and will receive about 70% of the
benefits. The remaining 30 percent accrues to private driver.. ad operators
generally engaged in passenger transport.
44.       Performance under the previous project indicates that there are
no special technical risks. The standard of rehabilitation achieved in the
1977-79 operating seasons was good, with careful attention being paid to
materials selection, drainage and proper compaction.  Within MPW efficient
use was made of the equipment, material and personnel mobilized in a coordi-
nated rehabilitation and maintenance program, and Guinean staff of satisfactory
number and caliber worked effectively under the first project; continued
collaboration from technical assistance adAisors is en.vi.aged.  Close and
frequent supervision is planned to continue the productire dialogue estab-
lished during execution of the on-going project. Overall sector planning
and management will be improved through the creation of the new Studies and
Programming Unit in MPW. Though all of these factors minimize technical and
managerial risks, the project does face the risk that the Guineans would not
allocate sufficient resources to support an adequate road maintenance program.
The special arrangements noted in para. 37 and 38 should help overcome this
problem.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
45.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, the draft EEC Special Action
Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea and
the Association as Administrator of the EEC Special Action Account established
with funds contributed by the member states of the EEC, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V Section I (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
46.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Action Credit Agreement of special interest are referred to in
paragraphs 33-40 and in Section III Annex III of this report. Conditions
of effectiveness of the proposed Credits are cross-effecti-veness with the
proposed US$6.0 million loan from BADEA, and the Government's making a
20 million Syli deposit in the project's local currency reiolving fund.
47.       I am satisfied that the proposed Deelopment Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the proposed
EEC Special Action Credit would comply with the criteria established by the
Agreement between the Association, the EEC and its member states dated May 2,
1978.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
48.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit and EEC Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
August 28, 1979



-19 -
Page 1
TABLE 3A
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LANDWAREA  THOUSANDUINE -A  REPERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AvRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. tM.)                   (~INEAM- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL             25. 9                                                    SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       71.7                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Ie
CGP PER CAPITA (USS)                   110.0       140.0      220.0            261.4      181.9        430.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       65.0         98.0       93.0             80.6       83.9        262.1
POPU.ATi0N AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        3.1         4.1        5.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 10.0          14.0       16.0             17.1       16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION LN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           23.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        13.0         17.0      20.0             18.4        49.4         45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      45.0         58.0       70.0            50.8       252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          42.1         42.5      43.1             44.1        43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                          55.1         54.7      54.0             52.9        53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.8          2.8        2.9             2.8         3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.2          2.9       2.9               2.7        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               9.0          6.2        6.Z              5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.0        47.3       46.0             46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       28.0        24.0       21.0             17.2       15.9         11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.51g       3.1        3.1              3.1        2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)    :.            ..         ..              ..        12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          102.2        100.0      86.0             94.3        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    83.0/h       90.0      84.0             89.5        93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           41.0/h       44.0      42.7             55.8        52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PUtSE          ..         29.0/i       ..            17.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      45.0         36.0       30.0            2Z.3        18.5         11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.0          40.0       44.0            47.0        49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..            ..         ..              ..       I05.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..       10.0             20.3       26.3         34.4
URBAN,                                ..          ..       27.0            53.9        58.5         57.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..        3.0            10.1        15.8         21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        L3.0         ..            22.5        16.0         40.8
URBAN                                *-         70.0         *-            62.5        65.1         71.3
RURAL                                 ..         2.0         ..             13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          48000.0      31090.0   15500.0/          17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      3890.0       5000.0    2330.0f1         2506.6      5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
WOTAL                            1110.0        980.0/k       ..            502.3     1417.1        726.5
URBAN                             240.0        280.0        ..            201.4       197.3        272.7
RURAL                            2640.0       1020.0         ..          1403.6      2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         16.0         ..             23.4       24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..              4.9        5.3          5.4
L'RBAN                               ..           ..         ..              4.9        4.9          5.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..              5.5        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 *-          '-
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..              ..        22.5         28.1
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..              ..        17.8         45.1
RLTRAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..          ..          9.9



- 20 -
Pass 2
GUINg^- sIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                    nitRZZNcE 011ours   XuST1DTIO 1AG
- MOST RECINT  AS,I1S) 
SAWE        SWES     N    HINERH
MOST RECENT     GIOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOMI
1960 Lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb      R15CION L/   GROUP /d    GOUP 
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                30.0        33.0         ..            59.0       63.3        S2.7
MALE                 44.0        45.0        ..             64.2       79.1        87.3
FEMALE               16.0        21.0        ..             44.2       48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  2.0         13.0        ..             9.0       16.7        21.4
MALE  -               3.0        21.0         ..            12.0       22.1        33.0
FEMALE                0.4         5.0         ..             4.4       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..          3.2        ..             7.0        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           66.0        36.0        ..             42.2       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         26.0        23.0        ..             22.9       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENr)        7.0          9.0/f      ..            20.8       31.2         54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         2.0        2.0             4.0        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        13.0        23.0      25.0             44.3       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..              2.9        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  0.2         1.0        1.0             5.6        5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..         ..             0.4        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1400.0      1900.0    2100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.3        40.3      40.1             31.9       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             88.2        84.7       83.0            77.6       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.1         8.5       10.0             7.9       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               49.6        47.7      46.1             40.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                                59.5         57.4      55.8            53.9       52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              39.9        38.1       36.6            25.6       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2          1.0       1.1             1.2        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..               ..         ,,        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..         ..         6.3
L4WEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               t. .,                16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            187.6       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             96.8       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..       52.0           138.4       91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             71.0       54.8       103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             34.5       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             48.7       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless other.ise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita. 1976);  le  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);  7f  1965;  Ig  African population only;   /h  1961-65 average;
/i  1964-66;   L[ WHO preliminary/estimated data;   /k  Government hospitals only.
May, 1979



-21. -
~ft l: ieog    k  dote ors :ndm.srI msor. *ns~  yjudgodt che met abrlittiv  e md reliable, it thWUl  also be mead thee Oey ..y Met be latin..
sivfy   oprhl  ha...ofte ac .     of otonierdla.J dtfinitiog   s.A conSpgts* useel by differ:otwcountries lii  otlectiog  Oh. die..  The die .r*, Nonetheless.
.s.NIss  to d"eSrIbe or4or. of samottod,  si.. W     t. nsdarM.  an   heatr4t          certtain  ")OW  digfferecof beit4MR tontrt"a
ThemdfOta  ars,  vonenforaec  loicaor  :Spopulattn-v.Lshted Iemeotto moo., seoctdlng the vatrm  vaI. af che todi.st,,. cd rho oat popoetoad
covt.!liiOiff  roo.  Ie  o lcleofda.*ops overas,  o f all tadic.tors for Capital S.rplas Oil Exporters and of todlicaters of Massee to wtler oed :scorta
disposal, sosig,         M*ee  d.otoTbstion esd Poverty for other -waotry ggeapa ore popataios.-eightod  amnstric uoao citko%t aselsi 1,0  of the esowr  vola*. NW
LhIL.ilh  (soumed eq   e)                                                            C m                        ml,.arbm,'    tuo¶  meve abmITrSIelS.-
sU.       o . Isrface are.  moprimitu  Ieed at"e md intend "etera.                            ongl  I0~(e. or  tA           Pa  .5 CtM                             Id.t  .
Nl iu     ost reoteo  estimate of sergufoltiwl ate"  ueed tamuoMrlly                 Peed  mu psromotgope of their respective pepulatlono.  Exegete diopeesi
at perenasetLy for trops, p.stsvem, markt med blOrhse Sstdeo  or to                        may lOOludO  thecltentimaned dlmpeeal. with or  ithout troempt.,o.f
lit fellow.                                                                                hima  woere   aS  oaot-t.er by ..tor-bor.w  myotm   o  the a." of pit
priviA. mod 015L1cr Installations.
1311 fll.A "'       alPI, p..cpit. aetiocte at corrmt methot priom.,                   p olea, eyoiIco,  - Ipsiakttin dinid.4 by n,.ber of procftiotr  phyot-
Eaolcd b   m   em riot muthod a eo f014 3vIk Atla  (1975-77 b"ooto);                                   , "liiTdfrmu     md al  chool at smiversly l10.01
1960. 1970, ond 1077 date.                                                              PmuletIoego F_fWtls   Moo           PoplutAfti  divided by so&Mr of proottelasq
aot   nd  spermalgudtasi   -creem   precotrel sro.  d pooelmtoe  noe
tIOCY CtON   PrtsP PT   CAPITAl  - Wonwet .OMPetim  of ooIMe't Pontearg  (emel                 "a"ceo  or hoeocn  hod * tols. wft           ,r. md tarot - PoWine.m   (t£00..
cd ti'os  "oore       ,-o.Is Sea mod hydr-, vhxolear 004 emothawo£                   sebe,  d0  eeldivdodb   hi                      irsetv   o.-ber of hospitAl bode
olo-tricity)  Ls biLooresof coal oqa-itoaan  pOt Opttai 1960, 1970                        oa-tleblo  to poblto cod priv-te otoral med speotelfmd hosepital end -
sand 1976 data.                                                                          bhbilitetios omtono.  Moepit.lS aft  a.t.blighmaseo   pepomamtly staffele  by
POIAT9  110VTAL STATTST[                                                              me lIm.t omon phyotoiea.  Utatblisbomto  providiog prin.ipeLly twattdilat
Ioost o    soatto  nid-.oo  fsLlIttml - A. of MeY 1; 1960, 1970, mud                      C." are not iogloledd.  Coral bompit.is, hc-o, tootod. health  uod -di-
1977 dat.                                                                               cml enCor" ot pe""'oatly staffed hoehysit.mo  thbet by a medical  .e
Orbi Ocutotosfoetootf totall -  tetlo  of urbin to total PopIoteian;                  latent, aeree.  tdidf.,  tOs.) othcb.offer in-pett*rt c.oommdite, to
difNoodtetoeo    hseseoyefr   oorhlt   fde                                             prftide aUniited raugo of -edil.t futllttto.
diofsts  oc ftrs  1900  190cod, 19   dat. ff-uliot.bi                                               setofbdatetet bed   Toral osohr of adin.otoo   to or det..Meme
Powi.t!ffPr       f09O                                                                        re hmupitnl  divided by the  W",~   of bedo.
iuiiioiWi.r200- Cisrr.ot popl.tattas   pr.ets            are beasd ch
1970 totalpoaoto  byameo               ced,,. Lhot   -t.rtalt1  oud fertility
rae.    rJ.ctiooP p etara  foi     -raI ty 0000   tmpeof   leI.t.                 incte  lo   .'f hoshold feeragge  Mr hot,Oht.dl -ttL  Vte.  o  ruril 
estte0hI   ooeccnI abiticr.iwihonry pe   .la                                       A hemcel   onlte of a troop .s ..dodi,            ts  h. sare livIng qoartart
toco-  lav-, mud fmaglo OIs  uptooy              biti.Ito  tc 77.5 yasre.                 sod their omi. m-l..  A hoardor or loder nay or ety not he LoeIded Is the
Thopamotretoof-tiltty rat. elmo hat-  3 level. seiig45.110                          household for statistical pLarpoese.
tofrility ocrd'o  tor 1500  le-t mu4 pat fatily PI.-neo   par                          rrn   nui o    ust   o   o   - ttl   rto., cod r-r   - A-vera. neebr
foe,cm 'tc  cocor  to then ...4osd ona of those 9'nciOations                       of p.orei  por  re_  to mIl. ar .oad rarel ottopi.d  covetiomla dttolins.,
of mrtalt I    od fnrtllty  trends for ptoJ.etii  p-rpos,.rospo.toivly. Ohoeliog.  -nlod. nosp.n.oot tructor    'nd  saotpd  "at".
ototi=ar  popalot'o"   to e SOtattcar   fplco, chore te 00 greuth                        Acemoto el-ootttv fotro-st of dwellirm"'  total. griealarrorlaj 
si-cethe birth rate Coae  totod..th oate, mtd .lco the5                                   Covotcaldsligo .ottl  elttritity  La livtg qaertmr. mu poromiese Of
structre  rso.t  con t..t.  Thi. io acbhev-d only aftr fertility r.t.e                   total, Orben. eod rural dweolling  repepotiroly.
decin  tothe roi=vt Levol of siti net eepn.dtttic'  rete, deco  -.b
1orteoo  c-o   rop aoen  itestf ooatly.  The StOtionary Popelitio
elseoes*ceettd  O  th  hele   f the p-ro5tcntd h- .... riseice  at the        .j .          arrolt "'t rai_
poysItltlot is the ye.r 2000.  d01  the  at  of deetto   Of fnrtility rate               pr.o s chool - total.       utcddb -io.ttl   eeedtnt   esI
to osplsomest I.t.t.                                               mut~~~~~~~~~~-t ot .11 con  at the  rmr  Level` a1.; peente   of. rowolv p-oior
fa  r ttio`    v  on=   sio  is tafed - Th. yeer .Ini Otsttvcy Popls.-                     ehol-eas  populatisse; tOrnoatly IMetdes ohildrmo sesd 0-11 ymes bost
tie sins h.. boon toched.                                                                 sdjsstod for differenit taegtbo  of primury td.sstion; f   or te rine With
P......ic  den,'-                                                                           cherot aweeio  nrellmo    ay oM.ed 100 perost  Li-. mine  "I.al  ste
Per s. he. -id-oacr pop.l.tto. par eq-ar  kilovat-  (100 h.cterenl                         bolos to abv  the officIlM  school ego.
of total area                                                                           li.A.-r aehoaI - col,_male 4ad finae    Computed a. above: eoedao   dit
peu. h. ooric.kurl..I leod - Copot.d an above for aericaLta...t Loand                  tia  rmO.Oa  let -ov  leers of eppre-   pr, r  otsto;poe.
coly.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g-mr.l vtcalpool, or coacher treistse  Leacroti-o  for  "uIt. nenelv of
Psolatot  costrcr (,I,?l. -. Childrmu (0.14 yeasr),  -orhtn-.Be                      12 to 17 YLar   e     tag; trrepeoodso crsose' ero eatrLly :Metsded.
(1144yoro.  n  osriod  61ar I             nd over  ona paroenteoSe of nid-              hootola:lnsften   fs~g                                  oetsLN   Imus,it.etico   intsdo1
rerporsltt.o; 1960. 1970  -nd 197? dst.                                                techotoal. iodatria1,  r, other progrne- which oper           tewladpeadeisn2  or 
~fjjtoocrosoirta f1murcosti1  - totaL -"".511 growth rates of total                    depeomments of s.eomdar  toetitatias..
e:Id-yr p,plaIos fr190-60. UPOO-fil. .od 19f-71.                                         Pco      -h-eolr roots -1.  so -.nd o.vode.Z  - Tot.1 ettisot  mo Lsdi
f.t)iciet(oot fcc usc-of. .yl~~~~~~~~-7fY, and 1970-70.                                                  o, of t.d  lrosL.lt.
dob-tt, rote (s- thou-od) -....ua  lIf- birtbo par thosacd ofAdult lttsroer rate imurcati -Literatc sd.ttt   able tc reed cd writ.) me
vi-orPoputriOr   0960.11  19) cod tOt' det.-                                          petcsosttg  of total odolt popatatio, &pPa 10 Iesr. andl oor.
Crd   eth rs tt 'set thousand -".-Isa  dsathe Per thotusn  of o1d-
ye:rar p pe,1tlgi 190, 1,970rivd 1977 date.
.rs   ord,L otto. rat. -  v_eo B.s_hr of d.ught .n  a .mc  out.il  bote              Potouo  c         (nar   .M .!iuadsnltol-psccrcr  cenpris  moor tsr.
to her Ocooct roprod" ttvm  period If  h.  oprose   presant ea-                          sting, I., this eight parense;hacte    ubsacm                   .....e  od isllitaly
opotifit fer ti lity rate: u-alt  fiv--ear .veregLe oedisg in 1960.                      vehitter.
1970, stod I91                                                                         Radio  - oivos t-nt tbouad EMaLtciZ1   A I typesof racei-ver   for redi.
fouly51ais-       Pt..or.  --oIc (th-eetSda-  veta  somber of                         br...dcat-     oosrlpbi  prtoao!fpilcio    rld.ctces
actptre  of hirth-scootr-   deIssder  -,uapicat of  ctional fantly                     receivers 10 tsoitrtoa  and L. year   d.huougitrto  of rdio 000  ui  i
ptaosi-% Preora-                                                                          affect; data for raerost y-.r  my hot be eomperebte otsim  met bowirIe
F   tlY eltI.A      -  ter  oson   of errLodwm            f- Pecnta. ofabolished lcrig
-acrtd cnn. o 1t c diO-hairtse  as  (15-.4 Va."e)  h.i ..s birth-smrtos                 Tor            I"vre(t  thosAin  soueto)-  Vrce               for broadcast to 5amura
d-1ttee to alt earote  ammoL is e seae cTOOP.                                             pblic per thitad plets11t=dumioosd TVPrcevr  L.0 o
tisodsyerolo etririlu*fT  et  tet   ffeot.
FOOt MOO tItTOtTIOt                                               Omusnamu~           ~~r raetc fe   thtosodo    Latoo   - Sh-v  tho cver.B. ci-t.-
lsdoo of foo',dTpord..tio  P., -astro  fl969-71 e '101 -' I0400 of per capita               ti.o  of "dilly oSoor.1 i.tteoot eaipaper'. dofiend as apridtl.cI pbhlt-
ensoel prodssttio  of elI food todl'tis.  Prduotim   os"lsd"m  0000 ans                   tatto   deated prinarIly  to roordling gtooora  ooo.  I      tonselsrod ta
fecd nod Ls -r calord.  year heoi..  Co-dtirSe  covr prtney jSdW.                         he "daily" if it appoary. at least feoct tins  a anok.
(to . -etcts  toote-d of .uoir) ahich are  dtbia es   otaootriorte                   Cimn    =% nsulat:t-adse ve  Iat"e  er rear - Oced no the ...ab-r of ticksta
:'so. cosfis  and tom co   oosd.)   Agoremet. prdodtiti, of eth t500ty                    004dro   h   er   e Ladlg odtasoo-  to drtv--bo .1imee ad  -sbit*
for ..,Lttseoi   fctro   oreto   ocrno                           C- Cpuod ftc
0000    qitclt  f  e  food  -opfnoeeLiahls to coutry P.r caPita                       AMF
pu  day .   o-t1able tsppltos  -ptyi-o  doeaetto  p-odstioh, .          importsttsas-afor..tt  fthos-onda  - Ecorot-1ly ccti-.prsu  ioocldtg crndi
soporto. cod  httageo  it etok.  Not -.srpltoo sxld ian.im-l (ead".  o.                   f-ro . -d uoply."d hoc ecLodiog h-u.-Lv.., stst,etc.  Defet.-
so-itittesocod to food  rcsuo..od irseet to dtstrths-io.  R.c.vet   -otoat  oacreca   so  tap...ble.
qoirenosts ants *oimhtcd byiA iot 00ud or-..sota   reed  for Or-                        %oaefocnt      a elbor forts ae per-enrae  of fetal labor fort..
.. cIvt   o  h--Ith - csdorio   eo_irnoe- toprao                body             Lntutr   ocrc  -1 baho  tarts 1  faming, foretry. hcooi.g cod fishIng
sogt, ats   d soy, di.tribatioc   of popsI-tto., ao  abod        10 Per-            at portoocgo of tc-a  taboo f.ryn.
_evl for useta  ho... h.ld Or..1.                                                        od.tvirott  - Labo  torte  Lo elotg. csttt.-auetrr  and
eraP-t ct,o   rtl   oso   n   af-foOsots  of Per                                        olortiy   cr  and jan             P.- pooee   oftoa     I.h   for-
cait   ,t-spply of foodp-o daY.  OUtt sopply of food Le d.fused                       P-rtilPsation rat. i"r ... t) -te         ml,adfnsls   PrtIoLpeoli   o
asov.  tquieont  iv  nf-cotrlst  o.tabllehd by tSDt proolds for                  ettl.r    -t    -o  e.-Pd  mu  ota,   nb." nd f-nol  labs  feov  at
aiof       aisoet    f 1 comaf g     ofttlpreOtin Par day adi 00 Sr,                      pernina.   eel m sd (molt P".soioo   l  ee   opcity
of almlad  plsoprolis,of 0,10, I  eon   ebald  e al.s1pree"'           P1960,71970 en  1971 d.ta.  Th.c. are 11,0's parifpatonS"rc.  re"e" in
Th...  tcadard. en  lvert theo these of 75 Sr-.c of totcl p001t10 adeot    cutr   frh    ouats   n   ogti    rjd                                                o    uiu
21 Srme of ari-a pI      50a  it-i   avargs for tho word, propotoad by                   are from           . -  tacma  anrc.P t1h    d1- t-t d.Af -t t
.rtacistheTidArdfo   tvy                                                                 oosrdctto   ai  - Oct10 of Vpop tiaco  admr 11 and 65 .d ave  tt
per  apit  Orooir upel  frj  eolol ad Po".. - Pr .. L. supply atfod              roab fforte isaot sopo  [-4   en
drrd (cm  s,   .lsad  _ss... 10 ems per day.L.g    -     f56  Y                                                                         .
sen  it agm gro,sp I0-i roots. cchildren  i. Miet.'=" raop; for atC                    PsoomuEen             LabeC   to-ja. (both ts ceob WAd  mid) received bly richt S
dovoloing toaitots AsS.nerivo   fromlife tbtie.pseot. richcest n Opot.tL. poorest 20 premot. aod 0oOrest hO pe'etoso
JgLI!                                                                                       of haoughoLde.
Lifo    '    -    i            V     -ao    A- Ctre  osabr  of prose of hi.~m rin,
iona.    hrh   N.q6.  9705. d [97' data.                                             'My=tf XqGv COOupO
hfot,ootl fr... (no thws..id;  --ari  d-ttoad infWante aedar                      ttewduelt  soovit    at(01 e    oisl-.tm    r   ,s 
L190seroeifoaa.t.o  i0or"tonfro't PWW            Ia.(~l..~~          n"-lA I                nstrittiot'L.ly sdeooi5  diet p1w  oooattel                  kw.ot  girltOp  It odO
foet ofP-pi. Itte.l athse  .od r-vel, ot  Oe                    .44ho  o s to         affordsado.
sets ctor -upply- fitodos trotted aurfav  sner evetost- d ho                            eoee    eeieevot  aa   ao   SOm   tsslvahnndna
ooo -oc oio d ..t.r ..tf,s   Ohot (to  pr".ccted teoradnta, cpfa,g.                   fsi.olsr    ees  lisbvli   n-br                                   "I".ag   pe aIta
ir   OtLtO   anIs  -oootevtq.  of  thei  ro-peci  vo potatio..                   psft_n l ben~ of Vio a.sox;r    Uvbeo la,vol is d-tdv.d foe am  rural
ransrsarea ao,) I  f-ttin  or  -uidyet laouitsd yet               "W to           farnl oick a4dtteoo,o  for 4nlohr s700  if IWLOAs  lit arbors pOOn
z00  -lorsfrom  a h--s  -v he tooidord 05 being wtsltio oeani                           s  acd.aljhj..   hos0   lrfrfrotSetSist   atsan
dio:ooproi. c   Pit of the d-, Os  erf-tlt tct fenilysatrnd                                                                        ota mir  snlvoi    "and  Drec. boa  5tPa-ot
fc-L, 1-1- 'leo 1959        t



- 22 -
ANI*F:X 7
Pags 4
REVO7UTICNARY PEOPLE' S REPUBIiC OF GUTNEA
ECOWN4C INDICATrOS
GROSS NATIOiAL PRODuCt rN 1977                                               AtiIUAL RATl OF GROWiT  (M. constant oriCff)
%IsS lEln   J            1975-76       1976-77      _377-85 ProiOcted
CR7 at Market Prices         ~        96.S        100.0                         11.7          5.2
Gross Dometic Investmnt             216.8          21.7                       193.3 La    -31.5 /L          .-
Gross National Saving                189.1         19.0                       276.1 LI       -3.4 /1
Current Account Balance             -28.8           2.9
Exports of Goods, NF'S              316.6          31.8 2S.4                                 13.9
Imports of Goods, NIS               256.7         25.3                          7.1         -18.0
OUTPUT. TABOlt FORCE A2-D PRODUCTIVTTY IT'    1976 AI'D 1977
Value Added
US$ million                         %
1976     1977      Averate       1976     1977      Average
Agriculturo                      4'9.6    346.8        408.2        44.3      32.3        38.3
Industry and Mining              32:. 3    434.3       379.6        30.7      40.5        35.6
Services                         265.1    291.4        278.2        25.0      27.2       26-1
GDP at Market Prices           1,059.5  1,072.5    1,066.0         100.0    100.0        100.0
C-OVc-M1CNT FI!IAN9
General Government
S_lis Billon                       Z of GDP
1976     1977      1978          1976      1977      1978
C Jrrent Receipts                 5.42      6.16      7.51         23.9.    27.2       31.8
Current Expendituree              3.83      3.86      5.28         16.9      17.0      22.4
Cu-rent Surplus  3                1. 9      2.30      2.23          7.0      10.1       9.5
Cavital Expenditures              1.71      2.18                    7.5       9.8
External Assistance (net)4    1.78          0.72      0.01          7.9       3.2         n
Central Government
Sliis Billion                       2 of GDP
1976     1977      1978         1976       1977      1978
Current Receipts                  4.86      5.52      6.90         21.5      24.3      29.3
Current Expenditures              3.45      3.42      4.62         15 2      15 1      19 6
Current Surplus  3                1.41      2.10      2.28          6.2       9.3        9.7
CapitAl Expenditures /5           1.61      2.07      .*            7.1       9.1
External Assistance /4            1.78      0.72      0.01          7.9       3.2        n
'MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1976        1977        1978
(billion Sylis end period)
Money and Quasi Monse                        6.7         4.2         4.5
Rink Credit to Public Sector                8a8          6.5         7.2
bank Credit to Private Sector                1.0         1.1          1.1
(Percentages)
Money and Quasi Money ss 7 of GCP           29.6        18.5         19.1
General Price Index (1972 * 100)/6         140.3       147.5       153.2
Annual % changes in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector                17.6/7    -25.4          9.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector              -11.7        14.1        -0.1
L U llsing implicit aGP deflitors (Atlas computations. June 1979).  Growthi rates calculated from data in Sylie.
/2  Both 1976 and 1977 are uncl nracteristic Years:  agricultural produccior, dropped in 1977 because of a
drouglt, and consrruction and public works registered a larre increase compared to previou s years.
/   In 1975 and 1976 tle Governwnrt: rcalizod a sizeaLle budget surDlus rhich was used to repay part of the
ours.anding debt with the Celutril Rank, thereby redticing the soiocy overharg.
/4  Excludino  forel,cn grants. (external borrowing only).
L   Financed vii  reasury.
/,  C71r Irrplicit deflsaor (Altar computatinn.  lJune 1979)
/?  Vie slis-p incre-su in cred.i tco cte pui.tc sector wns caus.ri by the transFer of Covernment claims on
the nublic secter to the banking system.
-.ot avnflabl*
not appticable
11 negilA ible
Augutt 1979



- 23 -
Page 5
RE1TVTLtNA1tY PIFP   S REPUBITC OF  UINIA
TNAeDr! PYMENTS AND CAP tTArI nQWIS
1A1. CE OF PAYMUTh                                                                                    tAQuNDISE EXPoRTs (Averae  1976-78)
(Preliminary EatiLates)
1976        19J7        1978                                                        USs Mln      it
(US$ MLitiwb)
Bauxite                214.4       70.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                      252.3       316.6        346.5                               Alumina                  79.3       26.1
Imports of Coods, NFS                     -284.8      -256.7      -283.5                                Other Co_odities          9.7        3 2
Resource Gap (deficit * -)                 -32.0        59.9         65.0
Total                  303.4      100.0
Interest Payments /I                       -32.1        -38.1       -43.5
Workers Renmittancas 
Other Factor Payments (netj                -50.2       -50.5       -55.5                          EX7EM&L DEBT. December 31. 197t
Net Transfers            u
Balance on Current Acount                 -114.1       -28.8       -34.0                                                                      Vs$ln
Direct Foretgn Investment                                                                               Public Debt                            906.1
Net MLT Borroving                                                                                       Total Outstanding S Disbursed          906.1
Disbarsements, Public BorrowinS           67.3        49.4       112.8
Amortizationt, Public Debt  I             2L88       -49.6       -47.1
Subtotal, Public BorrowinG                38.5        -0.2        65.7                         DIST SERVICE RATIo FOR 1978  4               32.77
Privete Sector (net)                     -25.4       -24.9       -29.1
Total Borrowing                           13.1       -25.1        36.6                                of vhlcht  public debt                18.37
Capital Grants                                            ..                                                        private debt of           14.3%
Other Cnpital (net)                          ..           ,.                                                           mixed enterprises /5
Other Item  n.e.i.
Increase in Reserves /2                    -55.6       -23.5       -72.1
yIB3DIDA LENDING (end 1978)            _    l55 Mln
Crosa Reserves (end year)                   53.2        50.5         29.2                                                                IBR2. IDA
Net Reserves (end yer)                    -110.0      -133.5       -205.6
Outstanding & Disbursed         61.1           14.9
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                              Undtsbursed                                    11
Imports                                -13.2        -18.6       -27.1
of vhichi  Petroleum                 -13 2        -18.6       -27 1                               Outstanding including            61.1          29.0
Exports                                   ..          ..                                                      Undisburaed
RATES OF EXCHANEC /3Li
Throuigh
GS/$                               1970    1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978
National Accounts Data                    24.7    24.6   22.7   20.7   20.5   20.3   21.4   21.1   19.7
(annual geometric averages)
alance of Payments Data                   24.7    22.7   22.7   20.5   20.2   21.1   21.2   20.3   18.9
(end uf period)
/1  Actual payments on dobt service hive been less (see text) resulting in incraease  in foreign liabilltics and a declIne in net foreign rese?vss2
/ From reserve position in US$ at end of period
/3 IFS
^ Actual service peyments reuorted to exports of goods and NFS.
5 CBC and FRICUIA.
.   not available
.  not applicable                                                     August 1979



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                   Amount (US$ million)
Credit Number  Year      Borrower        Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Two loans have been fully disbursed.                       73.5
569-GUI      1975      Republic of    Pineapple                 7.0       1.4
Guinea         Development
596-GUI      1976      Republic of    First Highway            14.0       1.3
Guinea
849-GUI      1978      Republic of    First Education           8.0       7.6
Guinea
870-GUI      1978      Revolutionary   First Water             12.5      11.5
People's        Supply and
Republic of    Sanitation
Guinea
S-22-GUI     1978    Revolutionary   Power Engineer-            1.1       0.7
People's         ing and Repair
Republic of      Project
Guinea
TOTAL                                           73.5  42.6
of which has been repaid                     13.8   0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                           59.7  42.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                  59.7  42.6
TOTAL undisbursed                                0.0  22.5      22.5
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
Guinea is not a member of IFC.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 569-GUI   Pineapple Development Project:  US$7.0 million Credit of July 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project consists of establishing an irrigated pineapple estate
and of providing pineapple growers in its vicinity with supporting services.
Due to the poor performance of the contractor, irrigation works were delayed
by one year but the use of provisional irrigation facilities minimized the
impact of such delays on planting and production targets. Total production
in 1977/78 exceeded 1,100 tons of which 580 tons were exported fresh to Paris
at premium prices. Measures are being taken to better adapt the quality of
this output to the marketing standards of importers and thus increase exports.
Works are now completed and irrigation started in December 1978. Irrigation
works for the second phase network, which will double the total plantation
area to 420 hectares, commenced in early 1979.
Cr. 596-GUI   First Highway Project; US$14.0 million Credit of December 24,
1975; Effectiveness Date: March 19, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress on the First Highway Project, a road rehabilitation and
maintenance program covering 2,500 km of high-priority roads, is satisfactory
although execution was delayed by about one year due to slow tendering and
bidding. Training of mechanics and equipment operators is progressing well
and the new management measures introduced by the Ministry of Public Works
with the help of consultants are effectively controlling the project's
financial, equipment and human resources.
Cr. 849-GUI   First Education Project; US$8.0 million Credit of September 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at helping alleviate the country's shortage of
skilled workers by improving and expanding technical training programs, and
at strengthening the country's educational planning and project implementa-
tion capacities. Progress is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 870-GUI   First Water Supply and Sanitation Project; US$12.5 million
Credit of Janaury 12, 1979; Effective: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project's objectives are to fulfill the immediate water supply
and drainage needs of Conakry, provide satisfactory sanitation to most
of its population, and strengthen institutions operating in the sector. The
project is essentially problem free.
Cr. S-22-GUI Power Engineering and Repair Project; US$1.1 million
Credit of January 12, 1979; Effective: April 6, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is intended to complete preparatory wrk on a large
rehabilitation program for the Conakry power system part of which will be
appraised in end-1979 as the Bank Group's First Power Project in Guinea.
Replacement equipment has been ordered and the Grandes Chutes Dam feasibility
study is completed.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Preparation Report: August 1978
(b) Project Preparation Agency: Government with assistance of
consultants
(c)  Appraisal Mission:            October 1978
(d)  Negotiations:                 July 1979
(c)  Planned Effectiveness:        November 1979
Section II: Special IDA Prolect Implementation Actions
Close project supervision by frequent IDA missions.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) the Government will prepare, and submit to IDA within
three months of the final disbursement, a completion report
(para. 33).
(b) the Government shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to the Association (paras. 33 and 40);
(c) the Government will establish a mechanism to provide to MPW
annually, by the last project year, US$1.5 million in foreign
exchange for equipment replacement and spare parts (para. 37).
(d) the Government will provide annually beginning in 1983, the
equivalent of US$3.2 million (in addition to the above US$1.5
million) for operating expenses for road maintenance and will
adjust this amount as appropriate to reflect changes in the
cost of fuel, materials, and wages (para. 37).
The IDA Credit Agreement and the EEC Special Action Credit Agreement
will become effective jointly, and this effectiveness will be contingent upon
the effectiveness of the loan agreement between Guinea and BADEA providing
for a loan in an amount equivalent to US$6.0 million, and on the Government's
having made a 20 million Syli deposit in the project's local currency revolv-
ing fund.






4           MErCRN                                                                                                                                                    iL    K' % , Lt  ;<t ; 8 $tW    t -
PR~~~~OJEC                                                                      . ,.    .       -A     ~ .  524 M;                  Ae     oun L
%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Amawi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
K~~~~~~~~~~
-  P 01000 Roads under Ssoed H,t!hwr  Prejot Gre eend pidh Reds)* t    - -.rsu2U   r    Fr- G ;Ae 
P o,'6    Mis]s Roedt rid   F,                                                                                                                            ,,,, H   oe     jtPnd
\\\  LreetOr Prjc ,C_                                                                                                                       ceGu _Rs tO<
i~ i  Proposed Iron Ur. dining
<*  Irnsrsss0orsol Airport~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~giry
A ~ ~   ~    ~ ~ d                                                                       4;Ž                                             oo  \lTn IbdO
1 e  K"nd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 ran-



