Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No?P-3993-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAT ION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$61.3 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHEAST IITRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 5, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984                                April 5, 1985
Currency Unit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 - Cr$1,952                             US$1 - Cr$4,510
Cr$1 - US$0.000512                          Cr$1 - US$.000221
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL UE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BANESE           Banco do Estado de Sergipe
(State Bank of Sergipe)
BB               Banco do BrEsil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNB              Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
CD               Desenvolvimento Comunitarto
(Community Development)
CEASA-SE         Central de Abastecimento de Sergipe
(Central Marketing Organization of Sergipe)
COBAL            Companhia Braslleira de Alimentos
(Federal Food Company)
CODEVASF         Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Company for the Development of the Sao Francisco Valley)
CORIDRO          Companhia de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Hidricos de
Sergipe
(State Water Company)
COMASE           Corpanhia Agricola de Sergipe
(State Agricultural Supply Company)
CPATSA           Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
ENATER-SE        Empresa de Assistencia Teenica e Extensao Rural de Sergipe
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA          Eupresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Coupany)
EMBRATER         Enpresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Federal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension)
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
FINSOCIAL        Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
FUNDASE          Fundacao de Desenvolvimento Agricola do Estado de Sergipe
(State Land Institute)
This document has a restrkd distnbution and may be used by rfcpients only in the pewrormance or
their orliral duties. Its contents nmy not otherwise be diadosed without World Bank authorizaton.



FUNRtRAL         Fundo de Assistencis ao Trabalhador Rural
(Assistance Fund for Rural Workers)
IC               Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
ICM              luposto a Circulacao da Mercadoria
(Value Added Tax)
INEP             Instituto de Economia e Pesquisa
(State Planning Institute)
MC               Conselho Municipal/Comunitario
(Municipal/Community Council)
NRCO             Unidade de Coordenacao da Pesquisa Regional
(Northeast Research Coordination Office)
ORTNS            Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
(Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury)
POLONORDESTE     Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas integradas do
Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
PROCANOR         Programs Especial de Apoio as Populacoes Pobres das Zonas
Cansvieras
(Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the
Sugar-Growing Zones)
PROHIDRO         Programa de Recursos Hidricos
(Water Resources Use Program)
PROTERRA         Programa de Redistribucao de Terras e de Estiiulo a
Agro-Industria
(Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization
Program)
RDC              Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SCU              Unidade de Coordenacao Estadual
(State Coordinating Unit)
SDR              Superintendencia Adjunta de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Adjunct Superintendency for Rural Development)
SEPLAN-PR        Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Planning Ministry)
SEPLAN-SE        Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado de Sergipe
(State Planning Secretariat)



SERTANEJO        Programa Especial de Apoio a0 Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast)
SRDC             Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Develonment Council)
STC              Comissao Tecnica Estadual
(State Technical Commission)
SUDAP            Superintendencia da Agricultura e da Producao
(Superintendency of Agriculture and Production)
SUDENE           Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)
SUDEPE           Superiutendencia para o Desenvolvimento Pesqueiro
(Superintendency for Fish Development)
TSA              Prograna de Pesquisa do Tropico Semi-Arido
(Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program)
UEPAE-SE         Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual de
Sergipe
(State Branch of the Federal Agricultural Research
Company)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Project         SUDENE'S SDR for regional planning, coordination and
Executing       supervision;  EMBRAPA for regional agricultural research;
Agencies:       and Sergipe's State Coordinating Unit (SCU) for
coordination of all states and federal agencies
participating in the Sergipe State Rural Development Plan.
Amount:         US$61.3 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 17,500 low-income families operating farms of up to
50 ha in the State of Sergipe would be the direct
beneficiaries of farm improvement components. An
additional 35,000 families would also benefit from the
water supply, community development and marketing services
components.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is the first in a series of projects
within the new Northeast Rural Development Program,
designed to increase, on a regional basis, the efficiency
and impact of rural development efforts. The project would
improve the beneficiaries' standards of living, incomes,
and employment opportunities. It would support water
resource development for both production and consumption,
adaptive agricultural research and rural extension, rural
investment credit, marketing services, funding for
community sub-projects, and state project coordination.
The proposed project would also provide support for
regional program administration and regional agricultural
research and research coordination. The regional
activities would assist in the implementation of rural
development projects in all ten Northeast states, thereby
benefiting an estimated 600,000 farm families expected to
be reached during the first five-year phase of the
Northeast Rural Development Program.



- ii -
Risks:          Although simpler in design than previous rural development
projects in Brazil's Northeast, efficient delivery of
project services and interinstitutional cooperation among a
number of agencies would be important for project success.
During project preparation, institutional weaknesses were
identified and measures introduced to improve institutional
effectiveness and coordination arrangemeuLts. The project
includes monitoring, on-going evaluation, increased
technical assistance and community involvement, to foster a
more efficient institutional environment. It does not
include some inportant rural development activities, such
as land tenure improvement, health, and education.
Regional projects for the health and education sectors are
currently under preparation; a Northeast Land Tenure
Iprovement Project will be submitted to the Executive
Directors shortly. While efforts have been made to
coordinate the planning and inplementation of all those
projects, the execution and expected benef4ts of the
proposed project are not directly dependent on the
implementation of the sectoral projects. Recurring drought
conditions present considerable risks to small farmers and
to expected benefits under the project. Decreasing
drought-related risks for small farmers has influenced
overall project design, especially in the areas of water
resource development and technology generation and
diffusion. Finally, delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding have posed problems in on-going rural development
projects. Recent changes in funding channels, a new source
of counterpart funds, the consolidation of rural special
programs, and the concentration on key production
constraints should help secure adequate counterpart
funding.



- iii -
E8timated Costs:                             -US$ Millions- -
Local      Foreign       Total
I. Sergipe Rural Development Plan
A.  Water Resource Development              6.9        2.3           9.2
B.  Agricultural Research                   5.5        0.4           5.9
C.  Rural Extension                        15.5        1.1          16.6
D.  Rural Investment Credit                12.8        2.3          15.1
E.  Marketing                               2.0         .5           2.5
F.  Support to Small Rural
Cobwnities                 6.4         2.6           9.0
G.  State Project Administration           5.6         0.4           6.0
Subtotal                                  54.7         9.6          64.3
II. Regional Program Activities
A.  Regional Program Coordination          19.6        4.1          23.7
B. Regional Research and Research
Coordination        10.5         0.8          11.3
Subtotal                                  30.1         4.9          35.0
Total Baseline Costs                      84.8        14.5          99.3
Physical Contingencies                      1.1        0.4           1.5
Price Contingencies                       25.7         3.8          29.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      111.6        18.7         130.3 1I
Financing Plan:                                  - US$ Millions  -   -
Local      Foreign       Total
Government                            69.0         -            69.0
IBRD                                  42.6        18.7          61.3
TOTAL                                111.6        18.7         130.3
Estimated Disbursements:
---.------------US$ Millions
Bank FY       1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual         6.3 2/  5.5    9.4   10.4   10.4    9.7    6.9    2.7
Cumulative    6.3    11.8   21.2   31.6   42.0   51.7   58.6   61.3
Rate of Return:                              19%
1/ Including about US$7.7 million of local taxes.
Z/ Including initial deposit of $3.3 million into Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$61.3 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$61.3
million to help finance a Northeast Rural Development Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 when President Joao
Figueiredo completed his six-year term in office. Its main economic
priorities have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of
manufactured exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the
same time an improvement in the situation and prospects of the most
economically disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the
Northeast. The prime political concern had been the return to a fully
democratic system of government. Much of the Government's attention, since
1980, had to be diverted from longer-term political and economic change
because of the stabilization problems confronting Brazil. In spite of the
economic recession and consequent social pressures, however, substantial
progress has been made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's
next stage of development.
4.        The presidential elections held in January 1985 resulted in the
election of Tancredo Neves, who has still to take office. Dr. Neves has
indicated that his Government's principal task will be to restore the
country's economic growth in order to expand employment opportunities,
improve the remuneration of the labor force, and bring about a more
equitable distribution of income. For this growth to be solidly based, he
has stated, would require a reduction in inflation, putting the finances of
the public sector on a sound footing, and maintaining equilibrium in the
external accounts.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate



- 2 -
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterloration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import sulbstitution; rising import barriers;
investment In domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.3
billion to US$54.9 billion. The efforts to redress the external imbalance
after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased inflation. The
economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when further increases
in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and interest rates Increased, the
current account deficit more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, or 5.0%
of GDP. Domestic inflation accelerated to 11OZ.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981, ending the long period of
sustained growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination
of external developments, including declining world commodity prices,
economic problems among some major trading partners, and regional events
leading to the debt crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its
reserves, the reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or
extend new credits, and bleak international market prospects, Brazil sought
assistance from the International Monetary Fund in support of an
intensified adjustment program. In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial
assistance of the order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and
through the Extended Fund Facility for the years 1983-85. Associated with
this were commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new
loans, the rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loans due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support, which were later extended into 1984.
7.        The primary objective of the program was the reduction of the
current account deficit and external borrowing requirements. The cruzeiro
was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and subsequently adjusted in line with
domestic inflation, Import restrictions were increased, and tight fiscal
and monetary restraints were imposed. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, and
exports increased by 8.5% in spite of adverse trading circumstances,
resulting in a trade surplus of US$6.5 billion and a reduction in the
current account deficit from US$1418 billion to US$6.2 billion. The major
source of internal disequilibrium, the public sector deficit, was also
brought under control. Central Bank figures show that the consolidated
operational public sector deficit was reduced from 6.6% of GDP in 1982 to
2.5% in 1983, with a small surplus expected in 1984. In addition, steps
were taken to eliminate product and interest rate subsidies, adjust
relative prices for fuel and other products, reduce public expenditures and
increase revenues. The adjustment process continued during 1984, and,
although inflation has remained high, substantial progress was made towards
establishing a new basis for growth. In particular, strong export
expansion during 1984 resulted in earnings in excess of US$26 billion and a
trade surplus amounting to over US$12 billion.



8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments has nevertheless been
high. Inflation reached 211X in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages
in the supply of tradable goods, Increases in administered prices, very
high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Preliminary
official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.2% in 1983, concentrated in
the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per capita GDP
declined by about 12% in 1981-83, and industrial employment by over 20%,
with the largest reductions In incomes and employment concentrated in the
main industrial centers.
9.       Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown on the order of 4Z, or about 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports is assisting industrial recovery, despite the fact
that for most sectors the proportion of total output wh'ch is exported
remains relatively small. Overall expansion is still inhibited by
depressed domestic market conditions, however, which can be expected to
continue until there is some relaxation in the present austere demand
management nolicies. In particular, recovery is not likely to become
generalized until real interest rates fall from their present levels of
30-40%. Unless significant progress is made against inflation, which
totaled 224% in 1984, the outlook is for domestic market conditions to
improve only slowly.
Economic Outlook
10.      The short-term economic outlook for Brazil appears much more
encouraging than that of a year ago. The balance-of-payments situation is
much stronger, some signs of recovery from the domestic recession are
apparent, and inflation is no longer accelerating. In addition, the
international economic situation appears more encouraging, with at least a
temporary easing of interest rates and oil prices.l/ The international
financial environment also appears more accommodating than a year ago.
11.       The immediate prospects for the balance of payments appear quite
favorable following the trade surplus of over US$12 billion obtained for
1984. Although total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much
of this surplus resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US
dollars, total exports for the first eleven months were 23% greater than in
the same period in 1983; the comparable increase for industrial exports was
35%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance, Brazil's international
reserve position has also improved markedly.
12.       Inflation is no longer accelerating, but reducing it under the
current system of Indexation and in the context of very resilient
inflationary expectations is proving to be exceedingly difficult.
1/ Over three quarters of Brazil's external debt carries variable interest
rates, or is short-term, so that a change of 1% in average interest
rates means a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about US$750 million.
Similarly, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices has
an impact of up to US$300 million on the trade balance.



-4-
Indexation, while making it difficult to reduce inflation, does of course
mitigate some of the adverse economic and social effects commonly
associated with inflation. A major challenge for the new Government will
be to restore confidence and, in doing so, dampen inflationary
expectations. To accomplish this, a conprehensive and consistent
medium-term strategy and a clearly stated and credible economic program
will be essential.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       The medium-term economic prospects for Brazil are generally
encouraging, assuming the continuation of the recovery now becoming
evident. This recovery depends, however, both upon the economic policies
pursued by the Government and a number of external economic conditions
outside the control of Brazilian policy-makers. The level of international
interest rates, oil prices, continued recovery in the OECD, the avoidance
of additional trade barriers for Brazil's exports, and the willingness of
the lnternational commercial banks to increase their nominal exposures are
all critical for Brazil. At the same time, much will also depend upon the
conduct of national economic policies by the incoming Government. The
present situation requires a comprehensive and integrated, medium-term,
strategy for structural adjustment and economic recovery. This strategy
should focus on greater production efficiency, an improved allocation of
economic resources, reduced inflation, increased investment and savings,
further export promotion, and a reduced reliance on external borrowing.
14.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions relating to the
international environment, and the projected domestic economic recovery,
Brazil could achieve substantial inprovements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. The
resource balance has turned positive with the large trade surpluses of 1983
and 1984. The current account deficit, which amounted to US$6.2 billion in
1983 (equal to about 3% of GDP), turned into a small surplus in 1984. The
debt, therefore, will grow at much more modest rates than in the past.
Total medium and long-term debt is projected to grow, in nominal terms, at
an annual rate of 4.8% from 1983 to 1990, below the projected rate of
international inflation. The projections assume that gross disbursements
would rise from US$14 billion in 1985 to about US$22 billion in 1990, in
current prices, and amortization from US$10 billion to about US$15 billion
in the same period, with net disbursements averaging approximately US$6
billion annually. For private M&LT debt, the projections are consistent
with reductions of total real commercial bank exposure in Brazil and a
reduced share of Brazilian loans in total commercial bank lending
portfolios. Nevertheless, continued new lending will be required for the
foreseeable future.
15.       Creditworthiness indicators for Brazil would improve
substantially over the projection period. The total debt service ratio is
projected to fall from 82% in 1983 to a plateau of 69-70% for 1984-86, and
then decline gradually to about 46% in 1990. In the absence of any further
rescheduling, there would be an amortization bulge in 1986. The total
external debt as a multiple of total goods and non-factor service exports



is projected to decline continually, after having reached a high of 3.9 in
1982. By 1990 the ratio is projected to have falleti to 2.0.
16.       One striking feature of the balance-of-payments projectious is
the magnitude of the projected net financial medium- and long-term resource
transfers (excess of interest over net new borrowing) from Brazil to its
creditors. This transfer would amount to almost US$8 billion in 1985. The
net resource transfer over the entire projection period would average 3% of
GDP annually. Even with these transfers, however, economic growth of a
reasonable magnitude could occur.
17.       Base case projections, with the component sectors of GDP
projected on the basis of assumed economic policies and individual sectoral
prospects, show a gradual recovery from 1985 on, with GDP growth increasing
from a projected 4.3% in 1985 to 6.6% in 1989. Throughout the 1984-90
period an average increase in real per capita consumption of 3.0Z annually
is projected. Even so, it would not be until 1989 that t:he 1980 level of
per capita income would be restored.
18.       Alternative projections assuming a more vigorous pursuit of
export promotion policies produce more favorable results suggesting the
possibility, with eased foreign exchange constraints, of GDP growth
exceeding 7% a year by 1990. On the other hand, adverse changes in the
LIBOR, oil prices, and particularly in export growth (whether through
restraints by trading partners, adverse international economic conditions,
or inappropriate domestic economic policies) could undermine and delay the
recovery.
19.       Any projection results must be viewed cautiously because of the
enormous uncertainties regarding future international market conditions.
Nevertheless, some conclusions may be drawn. First, the success of
Brazilian development strategy over the foreseeable future will depend upon
the country's success in expanding exports. Second, given the seriousness
of the external constraints, Brazil's economic growth over the period
1984-90 will be more modest than during the 1970s. Third,, to sustain that
more modest rate of growth will require both a continued net inflow of
external financing, at least in nominal terms, and a greatly improved
savings effort from the domestic economy. Finally, despite the clear
difficulties and risks inherent in the current situation, Brazil has the
economic strength, with the support of its lenders, to work its way out of
the present liquidity situation and resume a satisfactory rate of growth
while continuing to meet its international obligations. Thus, Brazil
should remain creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the
magnitudes indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government over the past decade has made substantial
efforts to relieve poverty. The educational system has been rapidly
expanded, giving rise to increased enrollment rates and reduced
illiteracy. Social security programs have been strengthened and extended



to rural areas, and upgrading and expanding health services for the poor
have received much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have
also been directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the
improved provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection
of these and other prograus, there are indications, based upon preliminary
estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard
and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real
income gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains,
as reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the
impact of present economic difficulties on output and employment, however,
there is a possibility that some of these gains could have been seriously
eroded in the present crisis. Slow growth in employment opportunities, at
the rates of GDP growth currently postulated for the 1980s, emerges as a
potentially serious problem. Large unemployment and underemployment would
persist well after the recession, unless strategies favoring more
labor-intensive activities or technologies are pursued.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By September 30, 1984 the Bank had made 134 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,725.3 million (net of cancellations), of which 69 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
US$764 million in FY83, and US$1,405.0 million in FY84. The undisbursed
amount as of September 30, 1984 was US$3,782.9 million. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over th. FY77-83 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$1,457 million per year. In FY84, ten loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved. They were US$52.7 million for
a market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million
for an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural
credit and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase
of the Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$20.0 million for a technician training project, US$40.0 million for an
urban basic education project in. They we the NorthCenterwest regions,
million for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal highway
network, US$55.5 muillion for basic health care in the State of Sao Paulo
and US$2.0 million for national health studies. In addition, a total of
US$30.5 million of supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects was approved in FY84. Two loans totalling
US$372.0 million have been approved so far for Brazil in FY85. They were a
US$300.0 million loan for a third development banking project and a US$72.0
million loan for a science and technology project. Work is advanced for a
second agricultural sector project, for a technical assistance and pilot
rural water supply and sanitation project, for the electric paser sector,
and for a land titling project.



-7-
23.       Brazil's external mediuw- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of September 30, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,019.53 million, of which US$662.20 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$357.33 million, US$278.79 million
represent loans and US$78.54 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983, are
being reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing
under the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of
project costs of recently approved projects in social sectors, supplemental
financing amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Bank's Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of Project
Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to
reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share of project
costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the
exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES aimed at
strengthening industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to 5ndustry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade poll.;lz in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Follow-up loans designed to
support the next steps in this adjustment process are under preparation.
Given agriculture's large potential contribution to export growth and
import substitution, adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's
transition from stabilization to growth.



-8-
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing Government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and three loans for urban development in two metropolitan
areas, in medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.  Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Several projects for rural and
urban development, for health and for rural water supply and sanitation,
directed to the needs of the lowest income groups in the Northeast are
under preparation. The proposed project, the first in a second generation
of rural development projects in the Northeast, is intended to support the
institutional foundations of the entire program as well as the first state
plan of rural development, designed to increase the incomes of small
farmers.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten cofinancing
operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. Cofinancing opportunities are rather
limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial
bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of
the debt rescheduling package. Cofinancing could become more important in
the near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore



- 9 -
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new cofinancing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
31.       Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing about 30X of
the labor force and contributing about 11% to the GDP and about 38% to
total export earnings (1982). During the 1970s, the gross value of
agricultural production grew at an annual rate of nearly 5%. Since 1980,
however, the value of agricultural output has declined, reflecting lower
international commodity prices, adverse domestic pricing policies,
unfavorable climatic conditions, and a restricted agricultural credit
supply. Per capita production of basic foods, such as maize, beais, rice,
and manioc, has also fallen. In most years, Brazil has remained
self-sufficient in food, except for wheat. However, periodic imports of
beans, maize, and rice have occurred, particularly in bad crop years.
32.       In recent years, the share of agricultural lands devoted to
industrial and export crops (sugarcane, cocoa, soybeans, citrus, and
tobacco) has risen sharply. Brazil is the world's largest producer of
coffee and sugarcane, the second largest of soybeans, and the largest
exporter of coffee and orange juice. The changing structure of
agricultural production reflects the fact that most productivity gains,
expansion of production area, and increased market integration have
occurred in the South and Centervest, while the North and Northeast have
largely continued to follow traditional agricultural practices. Because of
the sector's key role in curbing inflation and improving the balance of
payments, the Government has shown a continuing strong commitment to
agricultural development.2/
The Rural Northeast
33.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahia, as well as the federal territory of Fernando do Noronha and the
northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais (Map IBRD 18480). Its total
area is over 1.5 million km2, over 18% of the country's total area. The
Northeast has been viewed as the nation's foremost problem region since the
late 1800s. The country's wealthiest region during the colonial period, It
subsequently lagged behind as industrial, agricultural and commercial
activity shifted to the south.
2/   For further discussion on the agricultural sector, see A Review of
Agricultural Policies in Brazil, September 11, 1981, Report
No. 3305-BR.



- 10 -
34.       Drought and uncertain rainfall, a highly skewed land
distribution, and limited urban employment opportunities have resulted in
high levels of poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million
people migrated from the Northeast. The large number of recent migrants is
at least partially the result of a severe drought which affected large
areas of the Northeast from 1978 to 1983. In 1980, the Northeast had a
total population of 35 million (about 29% of the national total) growing at
2.2% per annum and an average population density of 22.5 inhabitants per
km2. About one-half of the population lives in rural areas, and over 50%
of the regional work force is engaged in agriculture. Rural incomes are
very low. As of 1980, over 80% of the rural population earned one minimum
salary (about US$675 annually) or less, a little over 35% of the national
average, and the poorest 50% received only about 10% of total regional
income.
35.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities, including
sisal, manioc, sugar and cotton, represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile, coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture (largely sugarcane and cocoa). The agreste is a
transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, dominated by mixed
farming for the domestic market as well as the raising of beef and dairy
cattle. The sertao, comprising some 750,000 km2, but only sparsely
populated, is the largest of the sub-regions and the most vulnerable to
periodic droughts. Ownership of agricultural land throughout the Northeast
is highly concentrated; about 7OZ of farm establishments are under 10 ha
and occupy less than 6% of total farm area. At the same time, farms over
500 ha (1% of the total) account for more than 40% of all farm area.
Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
36.       Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works and emergency programs and
to incentives for export crops grown on larger farms. The slow pace of
socioeconomic development and the need for improved regional planning led
to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency for Development of the
Northeast (SUDENE), first linked to the Presidency and later transferred to
the Ministry of Interior. SUDENE was originally responsible for the
coordination of all public investment activities, drought emergency
measures, and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new private
investment. Initiative for regional policy formulation was transferred
back from SUDENE to the Federal Ministries in the 1970s, and SUDENE
experienced a series of institutional difficulties. However, SUDENE
continued to play an important role in the coordination of federally funded
rural special programs implemented during the 1970s and early 1980s.
37.       The rural special programs have followed two approaches.  The
first is based on the integrated development of selected subregions and is
focussed on specific target groups. Programs following this approach
include the Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Progrru of Support for the Development of the



- 11 -
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar-Growing Zones (PROCANOR). The
second approach is largely concerned with alleviating the effects of the
recurring droughts. Several parallel programs, including the Water
Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program
(TSA), and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal
public irrigation projects, have attempted to increase the productive use
of scarce water resouces or to provide temporary drought relief assistance.
38.       Planning of a major new development initiative for Brazil's
Northeast began in 1982, stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate
contribution of the special programs and federal irrigation projects in
alleviating rural poverty and underemployment had been limited. The
exercise resulted in a new rural development strategy to be implemented
through a series of sectoral projects in such areas as health, education,
and federal irrigation, and a regionwide integrated rursl development
program. The Northeast Rural Development Program is a 15-year program
based upon a comprehensive regional policy framework, a set of sub-sectoral
strategy guidelines, and multiyear state rural investment plans. While
borrowing from past experience, the program has several innovative aspects,
including the integration of all rural special programs with unified
planning and implementation procedures.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
39.       The Bank has so far made 30 loans, totalling US$1,803.5 million,
for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million and one
supplemental financing loan for US$30.5 million, both under the Special
Action Program; three, amounting to US$519.2 million, for agroindustries;
two, totalling US$60.5 million, for livestock development; one for US$18.2
million for grain storage; two, amounting to US$100 million for
agricultural research; one for US$100 million for agricultural extension;
and 19, totalling US$672.1 million, for various settlement, irrigation and
rural development projects, 13 of which are located in the Northeast3/,
two in Minas Gerais, and four in the North and Northwest.  A Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project, which would increase land tenure
security and identify lands for subsequent redistribution to small farmers,
will be submitted to the Executive Directors shortly.  Completion and
Project Performance Audit Reports for the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project
located in the Northeast showed that the project raised settler incomes
beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas of environmental
protection, commninity organization, and strengthening of cooperatives. A
recent Project Completion Report for an irrigation project in the Northeast
showed that despite implementation delays due to design changes and social
tension in the area, beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original
estimates, and small farmers were capable of moving successfully from
subsistence to commercial agriculture.
3/ A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, "Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast," Washington, D.C., 1983.



- 12 -
40.       Ten of the Bank-linanced projects are POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight Northeast states (para. 33).
Approved from 1976 to 1983, all of the projects are still being executed
except the Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 1195-BR).
Implementation has generally improved over the years, especially in project
planning, coordination, and execution. Although no final evaluation
results are yet available, production and productivity increases in
non-drought years have been noted among farmers with secure land tenure in
a number of projects, including those in the States of Sergipe, Piaui, and
Paraiba. Nonetheless, all of the projects have experienced implementation
and disbursement delays. A number of factors are responsible: the
unusually severe and prolonged drought; shortages and delays in counterpart
funding and rural credit provision; limited execution capacity for land
tenure improvement and small-scale irrigation activities; initial lags in
the generation of drought-resistant technology for small farmers; weak
coordination between research and extension agencies; and limited
beneficiary participation in project planning and implementation. The lack
of unified planning and coordination for all the rural special programs
exacerbated these problems in some areas, leading to duplication of efforts
and competition for relatively scarce funds and trained personnel. When
possible, these problems have been addressed during the preparation of the
Northeast Rural Development Program (see para. 53).  The Sergipe Rural
Development (Tabuleiros Sul) Project is being partially financed by a $26
million Bank Loan (No. 1714-BR) approved in FY79. Experience with the
project is generally consistent with that of other POLONORDESTE projects.
The project, which includes 11 of the 42 municipalities to be included in
the project under consideration, would now be modified by the inclusion of
new components (water development and support for small communities) and
the addition of three municipalities, with the purpose of bringing it in
line with the new project. The Closing Date has been extended until
September 30, 1985, thus (a) making about $5.5 million out of Loan 1714-BR
available to finance project expenditures until the proposed new loan
becomes effective and (b) lowering accordingly the amount of the new loan.
The remaining belance of Loan No. 1714-BR (about $11.5 million) would be
cancelled.
The State of Sergipe
Location, Natural Features, and Socioeconomic Conditions
41.       Location and Natural Features.  The State of Sergipe, the
smallest in Brazil, is bordered on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the
west and south by the State of Bahia, and on the north by the Sao Francisco
River and the State of Alagoas (Map IBRD 18481). Most of the 22,000 km2 of
land is level to gently rolling. About one-half is considered suitable for
cropping, with another 45Z which could potentially be used for pasture or
forest. Dominant soil types include red-yellow podzols, podzols, alluvion
complexes, lithosols and planosoils. High acidity is common, but usually
does not limit crop production. The climate is characterized by two broad
zones. The coastal area, with an average annual temperature of 26C, has
fairly regular rainfall, averaging 1,100 mm anually. The agreste includes
inland areas and is divided into sub-humid and semi-arid zones, with



- 13 -
rainfall ranging from over 700 mm to as little as 500 mm and a dry period
from five to nine months. Rainfall In the drier areas tends to be
concentrated in a few brief storms, resulting in high rates of erosion,
excessive water loss, and in some cases, high moisture stress in the
intervals between rains. Average annual temperature is 24'C. The state is
drained by two major watersheds, the Sao Francisco and the Atlantico Leste,
the latter divided into five secondary watersheds. On the coast,
underground water Is plentiful and of generally good quality. In the drier
agreste, water is scarce and generally saline.
42.       Social and Economic Conditions.  The state's population is nearly
1.3 million and is growing at an estimated annual rate of 2.4%. Population
density is 53 persons/km2, over double the average for the Nortbeast.
About 54X of the population live in urban centers, of which Aracaju, the
state capital, is the largest. As in other parts of the Northeast, the
urban population is growing faster than the rural population, mostly as a
result of migration from rural areas. Accompanying the rural exodus has
been a decline in the proportion of the state's work force engaged in
agriculture, from 61% in 1970 to 44% in 1980. Although per capita income
for the state as a whole is about US$1,100 (1980), one of the highest in
Northeast Brazil, most of the rural population still earns below the
relative poverty level of about US$330 per capita. Illiteracy, high infant
mortality rates, intestinal diseases and malnutrition are widespread in
rural areas.
Agricultural Production and Services
43.       Production and Land Tenure.  Only about 16X of the state's
cropland is used for that purpose. Although a wide variety of crops is
grown, coconut, oranges, rice, sugarcane, cassava, and beans occupy 80% of
the cropped area and account for about 85% of the value of production.
Cattle and sheep are also important, particularly in the drier areas.
During the 1970s and early 1980s, either average yields or area harvested,
or both, increased for rice, tobacco, oranges and sugarcane. Cotton and
basic food crops showed a more mixed performance. Production of those
crops and of livestock tends to be concentrated in the semi-arid regions of
the state where the recurring effects of drought have limited use of inputs
and higher-yielding technology. Another serious constraint on production
is the high degree of concentration of land ownership. About 78% of all
farms (96,000 total) are less than 10 he and account for only 9% of the
total farm area. The 3% of farms larger than 100 ha account for 58% of
total farm area. While owner-operator farms predominate (80% of total
farms), a significant number of small farmers do not have legal title to
their lands and are barred from access to the institutional credit system.
Despite these constraints, farms under 50 ha account for over 70% of the
state's production of maize, beans, cotton, rice, cassava, and vegetables.
44.       Rural Development and Agricultural Services.  The major portion
of investment in rural areas is federally funded by the POLONORDESTE,
PROCANOR, and SERTANEJO programs. A number of government entities provide
services and promote agricultural development. UEPAE-SE, the State Branch
of the Federal Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA), together with



- 14 -
SUDAP, the Superintendency of Agriculture and Production within the State
Secretariat of Agriculture, carry out agricultural research on tropical
fruits, livestock and basic food crops through a main office and station in
Aracaju and eight regional sub-stations. Technical assistance is provided
to farmers by the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMATER-SE), currently operating through 5 regional and 29 local offices.
Although successful at reaching a large number of small farmers, the
extension service's effectiveness requires improvement, particularly among
farmers using irrigation and those in the drier areas. The recently
created State Water Company (COHIDRO) is responsible for water supply and
irrigation development. Federally funded irrigation projects are
implemented by CODEVASF, the Company for the Development of the Sao
Francisco Valley. The State Bank of Sergipe (BANESE), the Bank of the
Northeast of Brazil (BNB), and the Bank of Brazil (BB) provide credit to
farmers. The present banking network is considered adequate, but the
availability of investment and seasonal production credit has been limited
in recent years. Input supply is handled by private retailers and COMASE,
the State Agricultural Supply Company, which has branches in th2 larger
population centers throughout the state. COBAL, the Federal Food Company,
purchases a limited amount of production from farmers, and is active in
food retailing and wholesaling in rural and urban areas. Previously, a
division within SUDAP was engaged in land titling and colonization, but
these activities have been transferred to FUNDASE, the newly created State
Land Institute.
45.       The Priority Areas.  Within the state, five sub-areas have been
chosen to receive priority attention for small farmer development. These
areas include 42 of the 74 municipalities in Sergipe and account for 90% of
farms with less than 50 ha and most of the state's production of food
crops. The areas were selected with the objective of accelerating
development where small farmers and basic food crop production predominate,
but where there is still considerable underdeveloped agricultural potential
and a need for improved services. The areas selected have also been
subject to prior cadastral and land titling operations or would receive
priority attention -nder the proposed Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
46.       The Northeast Rural Development Program presents a renewed
opportunity for the Bank to further its poverty alleviation and
institution-building objectives in Northeast Brazil, initiated with the
Bank-financed integrated rural development projects (paras. 39 and 40).
The region's continued vulnerability to drought, concentration of land
ownership, and the common problems detected in the ongoing projects
convinced both the Government and the Bank that a unified regional approach
was needed. The lessons learned from the on-going projects and the
experience acquired by state and local institutions make such an approach



- 15 -
possible. The proposed regional program seeks, over time, a decrease in
direct Bank involvement in project preparation, appraisal and supervision.
A series of Bank loans in support of the regional program is under
consideration. The first loans would assist in the establishment of the
regional program structure and support investment plans in specific
states. Subsequent Bank lending would become more programmatic in nature,
with much of the detailed project appraisal performed by Brazilian
institutions.
47.       The Federal Government requested Bank assistance in preparing the
rural development program in August 1982. SUDENE was delegated the
technical responsibility for regional program preparation. Preparation
assistance was provided by federal and state technicians, the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program, and the Bank. The proposed project was appraised
during June/July 1984 and loan negotiations were held in February 1985. A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5350-BR) is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
ObJectives
48.       The main objectives of the proposed project would be:
(a)  to increase, in the State of Sergipe, agricultural production,
productivity and incomes and standards of living of (i) about
17,500 farm families, with access to not more than 50 ha. of land
each, which will carry out on-farm improvements or benefit from
off-farm public irrigation; and (ii) about 35,000 farm families
which will participate in community sub-projects or benefit from
improved marketing or water supply systems; and
(b)  to improve public administration services required for the
project and for the Northeast Rural Development Program.
49.       The above objectives are consistent with the Bank's strategy
for the economically disadvantaged Northeast (paras. 25, 29 above), and
seem particularly timely during a period of reduced growth expectations
(paras. 19-20 above).
Project Description and Detailed Features
50.       The project would consist of two major groups of activities:
those related to the Sergipe Rural Development Plan and those related to
the coordination of the regional Northeast Rural Development Program and to
regional agricultural research. The latter set of activities would serve
both the proposed project and future rural development projects covering
all ten Northeast states.
51.       Activities related to the Sergipe Rural Development Plan would
include:



- 16 -
(a) Water Resource Development: (i) construction of two
state-managed public irrigation schemes, totalling about 650 ha and
benefiting some 400 to 650 farm families; (Li) expansion of a fingerling
production station to reach an annual production of 1.5 million
fingerlings; (iii) feasibility studies of areas with irrigation potential
and, if justified by such studies, construction of one or two additional
small state-managed public irrigation schemes; (iv) construction of about
140 simple water supply systems, benefiting about 65,000 people in
communities with less than 500 inhabitants, selected on the basis of
per-capita Investment costs and the community's willingness to obtain water
supply service; and (v) strengthening of COHIDRO's institutional capacity.
Moreover, about 400 ha of individual private irrigation systems, about
2,500 cisterns and 600 small communal ponds to provide water for human and
animal consumption would be financed under the rural credit component.
(b) Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production: Research would
be directed towards low-cost technologies to make farms more resistant to
droughts. This component would include: (i) natural resource studies to
identify major research problems; (ii) about 85 short- and medium-term
crop research trials, at station level, with emphasis on cultivation
practices, fertilizer response, and variety performance; (iii) about 50
farm-level observation units to test and adapt production systems; (iv)
improvement of planting materials; and (v) a foundation flock of about 220
goats and sheep to provide breeding stock for small farmers.
(c) Rural Extension would include: (i) construction and equipping
of one regional and eight local offices; (ii) establishment of about 1,000
demonstration plots; (iii) hiring of about 115 agricultural extension
agents and 80 social extension workers, about 30 specialists and
supervisory and administrative staff; (iv) acquisition of vehicles, and
(v) training.
gd) Rural Investment Credit: The project would provide medium- and
long-term credit. Funds would be channelled through the Central Bank to
the three official banks operating in rural areas: BB, BNB, and BANESE.
Financing for on-farm investments would cover up to 100% of investment
costs (sugarcane, automobiles, and irrigation schemes larger than 4 ha
would not be eligible) with a maximum repayment period of 12 years and a
maximum grace period of 6 years. A farmer's total liabilities would not be
allowed to exceed 1000 ORTNS (about US$8,000).4/ Cooperatives also would
be eligible for investment credit if 70X of their members were small
farmers directly benefiting from the investment. Assurances have been
received that these criteria would be applied (Section 3.01(g) through (i),
draft Loan Agreement). Approximately 6,600 farmers (38% of direct
beneficiaries), are expected to receive investment credit. A greater
number would receive short-term production credit, to be financed by the
Government.
4/   Readjusted Obligations of the National Treasury (ORTNs) are the
primary vehicle for long-term government borrowing and the principal
public debt instrument in recent years.



- 17 -
(e) Marketing: This conponent would include: (1) training courses
in post-harvest handling, storage, and marketing for extension and
marketing agents, cooperatives staff, project coordination personnel, and
farmers; (ii) organizing a marketing information and commercial orientation
service for small farmers; (iii) infrastructural and organizational
iiprovements for about seven municipal markets and fairs; and (iv)
expansion of Rede Somar, a food wholesaling service for private retailers.
(f) Support to Small Rural Communities: This component would
facilitate farmers' participation in the project and provide additional
employment. The project would include: (i) creation of a community
development fund of about US$10.0 million to make grants for local
sub-projects; (ii) hiring about 18 community development (CD) agents, 3
regional supervisors and 4 senior advisors; and (iii) procurement of
training, vehicles and equipment. The State Coordinating Unit (SCU) (see
sub-paragraph (g) below) would be the executing agency. Identification,
planning and execution of sub-projects would be carried out by farmers'
groups, associations, syndicates and cooperatives. CD agents would
disseminate information on the fund and give advice on technical and
administrative matters with back-up from other state agencies. Written
proposals explaining objectives, benefits expected, method of
implementation, and group cost-sharing (in cash or In kind), would be
submitted for approval to Municipal or Community Councils (MC) comprised of
elected village ai,d municipal officials. Sub-project eligibility would
depend on its being (1) wholly managed and implemented by the group, with
technical assistance, as needed; (ii) self-sustaining and benefiting the
whole group; and (iii) not financed by other project components or
government programs. Three categories of eligible sub-projects and their
respective shares of the fund have been established: up to 15% for
training (v.g. legal aspects, accounting, operation and maintenance of
investments) and for legal assistance to beneficiaries' groups on
land-related matters; not less than 60% for economic sub-projects (v.g.
handicraft enterprises, tree nurseries, fish ponds); and up to 25% for
communal infrastructure (v.g. small storage units, laundry facilities).
Once sub-projects are approved by an MC, they would be turned down only if
they did not conform to the guidelines. No limit would be placed on
individual grants because the amounts required in each case are expected to
be small, but yearly limits for each of the priority areas have been set.
For each approved sub-project, a written agreement would be signed between
the SCU and the association or, in cases of unincorporated groups, by the
municipality on behalf of the group, with funds channelled through the
municipality. Assurances were received that no funds would be released
prior to the signing of the agreement (Schedule 1, para. (5)(ii) draft
State Project Agreement).
(g) State Project Administration. The recently established SCU would
be responsible for coordinating and monitoring all federally funded rural
programs within the state and for fully integrating them under the
project. It would consist of a coordinator, his deputy, units for
agricultural research and extension, marketing, water resource development,
and community support, and four regional field offices. Terms of reference
and qualifications of key staff are satisfactory. The project would



- 18 -
finance salaries of about 30 higher-level and related support staff, travel
expenses, equipment, building remodeling, vehicles, consultants for
evaluation and training, and other operating costs. Assurances were
received that the SCU would be staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 1, para. (6), draft State Project
Agreement).
52.       Regional program activities would include:
(a) Regional Program Coordination. The Adjunct Superintendency for
Rural Development (SDR), recently created within SUDENE, would: (i) assist
states in rural development planning consistent with regional guidelines;
(ii) provide technical implementation assistance to states; (iii) supervise
implementation of state plans; (iv) implement regionwide studies and
training; (v) consolidate monitoring information; (vi) organize evaluation
activities; and (vii) advise federal program management regarding policy
and funding decisions. Eventually, the SDR would also be responsible for
much of the detailed appraisal of state investment plans. The SDR would
consist of an adjunct superintendent; a coordination and planning division;
technical support divisions for land, research, extension and credit,
marketing, and water resource development; and an administrative sub-unit.
This structure would be evaluated after the first project year, and
modifications introduced, if needed. The SDR would be staffed by about 55
professionals. The SDR would have its own operating budget. Terms of
reference and qualifications of SDR staff are satisfactory. Assurances
were received that: (1) the qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment of SDR's Director of Planning and Coordination and
the five technical division chiefs would be satisfactory to the Bank; and
(2) SDR would be maintained under conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and
the results of the first year evaluation sent to the Bank for review by
June 1, 1986. (Section 2.01 (b) and (c), draft SUDENE Project Agreement).
The project would finance furniture, equipment and vehicles; incremental
staff salaries (excluding the Adjunct Superintendent) and travel expenses;
consultants; and other incremental operating costs for regionwide studies,
monitoring and evaluation.
(b) Regional Research and Research Coordination. This component
would strengthen regional small farmer technology generation and increase
linkages between Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi-Arido
(CPATSA) and state research agencies. A new Northeast Research
Coordination Office (NRCO) would be created within CPATSA, and would be
responsible for coordinating assistance and supervision of state research
programs. The project would finance: (i) additional office space; (ii)
laboratory and farm equipment; (iii) technical assistance and training
costs; (iv) about 50 research trials; (v) about 30 farm-level production
system tests; (vi) five regional agro-ecological studies; (vii)
dissemination of research results; and (viii) vehicles, incremental
salaries and operating costs related to the foregoing.
53.       The design of the Northeast Rural Development Program draws upon
successful experiences in the Northeast (paras. 40 and 46 above) to
increase rural development efficiency at state and regional levels. Its



- 19 -
preparation has resulted in regional guidelines for beneficiary selection,
investment strategy, targets and activities, expected benefits and
operating criteria and procedures. The guidelines would be incorporated in
multi-year state rural development plans in all ten Northeast states. The
unification of existing programs, the strengthening of planning and
implementation capabilities, and the promotion of beneficiary involvement
have been given priority by all ten Northeast states and by the Federal
Government, and are expected to result in substantial improvements for all
Northeast rural development -ctivities.
Land Tenure Improvement
54.       Secure tenure of land of sufficient quantity and quality are
essential for sustained rural development. The lands required in the Stete
of Sergipe would be identified as part of the surveying and cadastral
activities to be financed under the proposed Northeast Region Land Tenure
Impr Jement Project (para. 39 above) and subsequently acquired through
purchase or expropriation by the Government. Both projects are part of the
Northeast Rural Development Program; yet the improvement of land tenure
conditions throughout the Northeast is such a vast and complex task that it
Justifies a single, region-wide project, rather than a component in each
state rural development project. Activities have been planned jointly, and
coordination mechanisms have been established at the regional and state
levels. Targets (based on need, availability of suitable land, type of
farming planned, and expected institutional capabilities), procedures and
criteria for land acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary selection have
all been agreed as conditions of the Bank loan for the Northeast Region
Land Tenure Improvement Project. Accordingly, the State and Federal
Governments have provided assurances that: (a) at least 8,670 ha in tho
priority areas would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries by March 31, 1986; and (b) an additional 38,000 ha in the
priority areas would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries by March 31, 1988 (Section 3.01(a) and (c), draft Loan
Agreement; Section 3.03, draft State Project Agreement).
Project Organization and Management
(a) Federal and Regional Levels
55.       An Interministerial Commission (IC), chaired by the
Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, and comprised of
representatives from the Ministries of Agricultu:e, Planning, Land,
Finance, and Interior and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy,
planning and budgeting responsibility for the Northeast Rural Development
Program. SUDENE's SDR, as regional coordinator of the Program (para. 52(a)
above), would receive policy backing through a regional Rural Development
Council (RDC) which includes representatives of all the Northeast states.
(b) State and Local Levels
56.       A State Rural Development Council (SRDC), chaired by the Governor
and including the State Secretaries of Planning, Agriculture, Finance and
Water Resources and the SCU Coordinator, would provide overall guidance for



- 20 -
state rural development activities. The SCU would coordinate all project
activities within the state. It would have its own budget, salary
structure and administrative and personnel procedures and would be
responsible for: (a) consolidating executing agencies' annual plans; (b)
supervising their performance and advising the SRDC on institutional or
technical difficulties; (c) monitoring progress and preparing reimbursement
requests; (d) ongoing project evaluation; (e) providing training on
objectives, strategy, and specific implementation problems; and (f)
executing the project's community support component (para. 51(f) above).
The SCU would be structured into a central office and four regional field
offices. Interwunicipal Councils, comprised of municipal representatives
and local executing agency staff, would provide a forum for beneficiary
participatlon in planning and implementation.
(c) Unification of Rural Special Programs
57.       Improved administrative efficiency and the unification of
Northeast rural programs are central to project strategy and would
eliminate administrative duplication. Accordingly, as a condition for loan
effectiveness, the Government would provide to the Bank evidence that the
planning, budgeting, staffing and administration for all current regional
rural special programs have been unified and consolidated within SUDENE's
SDR at the regional level, and within the SCU at the state level, and that
the quantity of SDR staff has been reduced to agreed upon levels (Section
6.01(b), draft Loan Agreement).
(d) Annual Planning and Budgeting
58.       Targets and costs established at appraisal would be adjusted
annually. Once the Federal Government establishes overall funding
availability for the Northeast Rural Development Program for the next year,
state allocations would be established by the SDR in consultation with the
RDC. On this basis, each executing agency would prepare a detailed annual
operating plan. The SCU would consolidate the plans, ensure internal
consistency and submit them for SRDC's and SDR's approvals. The SDR would
consolidate state plans into a regional operating plan, to be presented to
the IC as the basis for a portaria (administrative regulation) signed by
the ministers and legally establishing budget allocations for each state,
CPATSA, and the SDR.  Assurances werp provided that: (a) the regional
operating plan would be sent each yeac to the Bank for comment prior to
approval; (b) the portaria, the final regional operating plan, and the
Sergipe operating plan, would be sent to the Bank not later than April 1 of
each year; and (c) any proposed changes in the planning and budgeting
process would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to enactluent.
(Section 3.02(a) and (b) draft Loan Agreement).
(e) Accounts and Auditing
59.       Each participating agency would maintain separate accounts for
project expenditures, to be audited annually by the Secretariat of Internal
Control of SEPLAN-PR, according to standard Government practice, which is
acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the audit report would be provided to



- 21 -
the Bank within slx months following the close of the project's fiscal
year. The Special Account (para. 69 below) would be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 4.01, draft Loan Agreement;
Sections 3.01 and 3.02, draft State Project Agreement; Sections 3.01 and
3.02, draft SUDENE Project Agreement).
(f) Operating Agreements
60.       Agreements among project coordinating and executing agencies
would be entered into: (a) between SUDENE and federal agencies provlding
technical support to SDR; (b) between SCU and federal agencies; (c) among
executing agencies, with the participation of the SCU, when more than one
is Involved in executing a project component; and (d) between the SCU or an
executing agency and involved municipalities or groups prior to the
construction of civil works or initiation of a comu.nity sub-project.
These agreements would provide execution guidelines and targets, reporting
requirements, inter-agency collaboration procedures and funding conditions
linked to performance. The State and Federal Governments have provided
assurances that they would enter into all necessary agreements not later
than six months after loan signing (Section 3.01(f) and (j), draft Loan
Agreement; Section 2.01(b)(ii), draft State Project Agreement; Section
2.O(e), draft SUDENE Project Agreement).
Project Execution
61.       It is estimated that the project will take eight years to be
completed. Some of the participating institutions have participated in
previous Bank projects (v.g. SUDENE, CODEVASF, EMBRAPA at the federal
and regional levels; CEASA-SE, COHIDRO, EMATER-SE, SEPLAN-SE at the state
level) and their strengths and weaknesses are known to the Bank.
Assurances have been received that COHIDRO would be reorganized in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank prior to disbursement of the loan proceeds
allocated for the water resource development component of the project
(Schedule 1, para. Z(b), draft Loan Agreement; Schedule 1, para. (1)(a),
draft State Project Agreement). Others, such as SDR and SCU are being
established concurrently with the initiation of the Northeast Rural
Development Program. In both cases, needed actions in organization and
staff training have been identified during project preparation and
assurances have been received that each agency would employ consultants
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist in carrying
out such improvements (Section 3.03(b) draft Loan Agreement; Schedule 2,
Part II, draft State Project Agreement; Section 2.02, draft SUDENE Project
Agreement). The dams for the Jabiberi and Jacarecica irrigation
subprojects would be subject to periodic review by a panel of experts which
would also review the final design and inspect the construction of the
latter dam (Section 2.05(b), draft State Project Agreement). Market
improvements (para. 51(e)Ciii) above) would be subject to SUDENE approval
and would not be carried out until the municipality concerned has signed
the corresponding agreement with SCU (Schedule 1, para. (4), draft State
Project Agreement).



- 22 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
62.       Monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been designed to
simplify reporting requirements and to provide information for project
management and annual planning. SCU would receive from executing agencies
monthly reports on key physical and financial indicators, selected among
information already routinely collected by the agencies. SCU would produce
quarterly consolidated monitoring summaries and SDR would produce a
semi-annual monitoring summary for the program as a whole, including
summaries for each state, providing the type of information found in Bank
supervision reports. Assurances have been rece'ved that: (a) quarterly
state monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank not later than three
months after the end of the respective fiscal quarter; and (b) SDR
semi-annual summaries would be provided to the Bank not later than
December 31 for the April-September semester and not later than June 30 for
the October-March semester (Section 2.05(b), draft SUDENE Project
Agreement; Section 2.01(c) draft State Project Agreement).
63.       Evaluation would include: (a) ongoing evaluation and special
studies; (b) mid-term evaluation; and (c) post-project evaluation. Crop
surveys to measure production and productivity among beneficiary and
non-beneficiary farmers would be part of ongoing evaluation. Mid-term and
post-project evalution studies, would be contracted to independent
consulting firms and/or academic institutions acceptable to the Bank.
State and Federal Governments have provided assurances that: (a) SUDENE
would furnish to the Bank by June 30 each year a list of all terms of
reference and institutional arrangements approved for state-level short
studies and of all short studies completed and available for the preceding
program fiscal year; (b) terms of reference for ongoing and special studies
at the regional level would be satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) terms of
reference and institutional arrangements for the mid-term and post-project
evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 2.01(d), draft
IUDENE Project Agreement; Schedule 1, para. (6)(b), draft State Project
greement).
Project Cost
64.       The total project cost is estimated at $130.3 million equivalent
(February 1985), with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component
slightly above 14%, based on the assumption that all goods and services
would be acquired in Brazil with the exception of specialized consultants'
services. The cost estimate includes about $7.7 million equivalent in
applicable local taxes. A breakdown of estimated costs is provided in page
iii of the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 2% and 30% of baseline
costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs
at 15% for irrigation and water supply construction, 10% for other
construction, and 52 for equipment, furniture, vehicles, vehicle operation
and maintenance, training, and incremental operating expenses (excluding
salaries and allowances). Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar
terms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 8.0% for 1985;
9.0% for 1986, 1987 and 1988; 8.0% for 1989; and 6% thereafter.  It was



- 23 -
assumed that periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a
purchaslng power parity basis, would compensate for differences between
projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
65.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be $61.3 million
equivalent, which would represent 50Z of total estimated cost, net of
taxes and the estimated cost of civil works for the Jabiberi dam (para.
51(a)(i) above) which would be financed exclusively with Government funds.
The proposed loan would finance 100% of direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs and 38% of local costs. The proposed contribution is in
line with Bank policy concerning projects in the social sectors (para. 26
above). The loan would be repayable over 15 years, including 3 years of
grace and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The
loan would be made to the Federative Republic of Brazil which would carry
the foreign exchange risk and provide counterpart funds as necessary to
complete the project. Improvements in funding procedures for Bsak-financed
agricultural projects were introduced In conjunction with the Bank's
Special Action Program. They include monthly direct channelling of funds
from SEPLAN-PR to a specific project account in each state for activities
executed by state agencies and directly to federal executing agencies as
well as monthly advances through the Central Bank covering the estimated
Bank share of monthly expenditures. Assurances were received that: (a) the
funding procedures established as part of the Special Action Program would
be adopted for the Northeast Rural Development Program, including the
proposed project; and (b) would not be changed without Bank approval
(Sections3.01(d) and 5.01(c), draft Loan Agreement). Receipt by the Bank
of the administrative regulation (portaria) establishing the funding
procedures for the Program would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 6.01 (c), draft Loan Agreement).
On-Lending Terms
66.       The proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant
basis, to SUDENE, other participating federal agencies and the State of
Sergipe. The Central Bank, would rediscount the subloans provided by the
Government-owned participating banks (BB, BNB and BANESE) which would
receive a 4% spread. Rural credit subsidies have long been an issue in the
Bank's dialogue with the Government. A schedule for achieving full
monetary correction for the majority of loans was agreed upon In February
1983, as part of the discussions for the Agricultural Credit and Export
Development Project (Loan 2348-BR). That schedule has been adhered to in
all areas and even advanced in the Center-South of Brazil. Because the
Northeast is a disadvantaged area and suffered a prolonged drought, it was
agreed that phasing out of subsidies would start there with the first
planting season following the first post-drought harvest. Accordingly,
interest rates previously at a drought emergency nominal rate of 35X, would
be raised by July 1985 to 85% of monetary correction plus 3% interest, in
accordance with the schedule previously agreed upon with the Bank. This
reduction in credit subsidies could limit small farmer credit demand but it
is expected that the effect would be temporary. The remaining subsidies
would be financed by the fiscal budget. Assurances were received that:



- 24 -
(a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the participating
banks to carry out the project's investment credit component; (b) the
Central Bank and the other participating banks will carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions set forth in
this paragraph and in para. 51(d) above; (c) each of the participating
banks would provide monthly information to SUDENE and the SCU on investment
credit availability, demand, and lending per bank agency serving the
priority areas; and (d) priority will be given to monthly allocations of
short-term production credit in *4equate amounts to Bank agencies serving
project areas (Section 3.01(g) through (i), draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
67.       Current legislation requires that water and other charges to
users of public irrigation be set at such levels as will permit full
recovery of operation and maintenance expenditures and a certain portion of
capital costs. COHIDRO provides also water supply services to small
communities (up to 500 inhabitants) free of charge; this procedure will be
continued during a transitional period, until 1987, when the National Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation Program -- now being prepared with Bank support
- is expected to be implemented in the Northeast Region. At that stage
the communities would assume responsibility for all operational and
maintenance costs. Agreement has been reached that irrigation charges and
water supply policies would be in line with the foregoing (Schedule 1,
paras. (1)(d) and (e), draft State Project Agreement). Funds allocated to
the community support component would be made available to project
beneficiaries on a nonreimbursable basis (see para. 51(f) above). Given
the low income of project beneficiaries, all other project services
(agricultural research, extension and marketing) would also be provided to
them free of charge and the cost thereof would be borne exclusively by the
Federal Government.
Procurement
68.       All civil works (about US$14.3 million) would be executed through
contracts awarded according to competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry which is
capable of carrying out project works. Since the individual works are
small and dispersed, foreign contractors are not expected to be interested,
but would not be excluded from bidding. In some small community develop-
ment sub-projects, the beneficiaries would carry out the works under
agreements with the SCU (para. 51(f) above). Equipment, materials and
vehicles required by the project (about US$10.0 million), almost all
locally produced, would be procured by the several executing agencies at
various locations over the project implementation period in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consultants'
services for technical assistance, evaluation, and special studies would be
procured locally and internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Any civil works contract estimated to cost US$200,000 or more (except
contracts related to the Jabiberi dam) and goods packages of US$50,000 and
above would be subject to prior Bank review. The table below contains a
synopsis of all procurement arrangements. Assurances have been received



- 25 -
concerning these procurement arrangements (Schedule 2, draft State Project
Agreement; Section 2.03,draft SUDENE Project Agreement). Thus, prior Bank
revlew would cover about 50S and 20% of the value of civil works and goods,
respectively.
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Type of Project                     Procurement Method
Expenditure                 LCB     Other    N.A.    Total
Civil Works                            14.3                       14.3
(7.1)                     (7.1)
Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture      10.0                       10.0
(4.9)                     (4.9)
Technical Assistance, Training                 16.0               16.0
and Studies                                 (7.6)              (7.6)
Rural Investment Credit                                 20.8      20.8
(1 1.0)   (11.0)
Salaries and Allowances                                 54.4      54.4
(24.3)   (24.3)
Other Operating Expenses                                 14.8     14.8
(6.4)    (6.4)
TOTAL          24.3    16.0      90.0    130.3
(12.0)   (7.6)   (41.7)   (61.3)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the estimated amounts to be financed by
the Bank.
Disbursements
69.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed at a uniform
rate of 47% against all eligible project expenditures (excluding taxes)
until an aggregate amount of US$1.6 million for state research and of
US$4.6 million for extension have been disbursed. Thereafter, disbursement
rates for research and extension, which include a high percentage of
recurrent costs, would be progressively reduced by 5 percentage points each
year. The disbursement rate for regional coordination (SUDENE and CPATSA)
would remain at 47%, and all other categories would be adjusted to result
in an overall rate of 50X financing of total eligible expenditures
excluding taxes. In order to enable project executing agencies to prepare
for an early start of project execution, eligible expenditures incurred
prior to loan signing but after July 18, 1984 (end of project appraisal)
would be eligible for reimbursement up to $2.7 million equivalent. In
order to reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account
would be opened in the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of up to
US$3.3 million. Withdrawals in Cruzeiros from the Special Account,



- 26 -
supported by statements of expenditure and other required documentation,
would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date of the
expenditure. The Central Bank would send thecorresponding statements to
the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account (draft Loan
Agreement, Sections 2.02(b) and 3.01(d)(iii)(A), and Schedules 1 and 4).
Disbursements for all operating expenses would be made under statements of
expenditure from the various executing agencies and certified by the SCU
for Sergipe activities and by SUDENE for regional project activities;
supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be
made available for inspection during project supervision missions.
Standard documentation for civil works, vehicles, equipment, and technical
assistance would be submitted to the Bank. Disbursements are expected to
be completed in 8 years which is consistent with Bank experience with
Northeast rural development projects. In addition to those listed in
paras. 60(d) and 61 above, the Bank's approval of final designs,
resettlement plans and operation and maintenance plans and receipt by the
Bank of proof of land acquisition, would be conditions of disbursement of
any loan proceeds allocated to finance the construction of any public
irrigation scheme (Schedule 1, para. 2(c), draft Loan Agreement).
70.      An amount of $1.0 million equivalent has been set aside to
finance the construction of one or two public irrigation schemes, which
were not su.2ficiently prepared at appraisal time, to be built if justified
by feasibility studies included in the project (para. 51(a)(iii) above).
If the amount so allocated has not been committed to a specific sub-project
approved by the Bank by December 31, 1987, it would be cancelled (Schedule
1, para. 4, draft Loan Agreement and Schedule 1, para. (1)(c), draft State
Project Agreement).
Project Benefits_
71.       Estimated financial rates of return for appraised farm models
range from about 17% to 71% and are mainly a reflection of low current
incomes, low cost and rapid return investment packages, and technology
improvements. The introduction of crops better able to resist droughts
would improve yield reliability and income stability. Although cropping
patterns are not expected to change dramatically, farmers would introduce
new and more profitable cash crops and sheep dairy production and forage
crops. The weighted average annual family income of project beneficiaries
at full development is estimated at US$2,700 for rainfed farmers and
US$3,400 for farmers with irrigation, representing increases of 140% and
89X, respectively, over present income levels. Supplemental income, (v.g
off-farm work) has not been taken into account into these estimates.
Monitoring changes in beneficiaries' incomes would be part of the project
(para. 63 above). About one-half of project farmers reside in semi-arid
regions of Sergipe and are vulnerable to recurring droughts, but two
separate sensitivity analysis (a severe drought during the first 3 years of
the project and a similar drought in years 8, 9 and 10) still showed an
improved situation compared to what it would have been without the project.
72.       The economic rate of return for the project has been estimated at
19%. The cost stream included four elements: (a) all on-farm incremental



- 27 -
investment and operating costs; (b) 74% of Sergipe project costs, (net of
those related to social forestry, the wholesale food supply system, the
fund for unidentified irrigation studies and sub-projects, the community
development component, and community water supply systems); (c) IOZ of
regional administration costs and a proportion of regional research costs
corresponding to the proportion of the state's rural population within the
Northeast's; and (d) recurrent regional and state costs on a declining
basis. The evaluation of incremental benefits included: (i) benefits for
farmers expected to use investment credit and for some farmers who would be
reached by the extension services; and (ii) increased inland fish
production. Economic prices for traded goods were derived taking into
account international prices. Not all project benefits are accounted for
in the economlc rate of return analysis. Research and extension should
result in production increases for other farmers. The expanded
agricultural activity would create new farm employment (some 6,700
man-years annually at full development). Extension, water supply, and
marketing activities would have a beneficial health and nutritional
impact. Strengthened public sector planning and implementation
capabilities would benefit future rural development efforts.
73.       Sensitivity tests showed that the economic rate of return is
fairly insensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. Project
benefits would need to fall by 22% or projects costs rise by over 29%
before the rate of return fell below the estimated 11Z opportunity cost of
capital. A lag of three years in achieving project benefits, such as might
occur during a severe drought, would result in a 14Z rate of return. A
simultaneous lag in costs and benefits such as might occur with an
eight-year disbursement period, would not alter the project's rate of
return.
Project Risks
74.       Although simpler in design than previous rural development
projects in Northeast Brazil, the proposed project depends on a large
number of institutions and on their cooperation. The larger role
attributed to SUDENE in regional coordination and technical assistance
requires considerable institution-building. Institutional analysis and
improved institutional effectiveness were an important parts of project
preparation. In addition, most agencies involved have experience with the
project's target group. Improved monitoring, evaluation and technical
assistance should help decrease management risks. The project's emphasis
on beneficiary participation and community involvement would increase
accountability of the executing agencies.
75.       The proposed project does not include land tenure, health, and
education activities. These activities are essential for sustained rural
development and parallel sectoral projects for health and education are
currently under preparation. A regional Land Tenure Improvement Project
will be submitted to the Executive Directors shortly. Expected benefits
under the proposed project are not directly dependent, in the short term,
on the implementation of such projects in the short-term.



- 28 -
76.       Delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding could decrease the
proposed project's iupact. Recent changes in funding channels and
procedures (para. 65 above), the merging of the rural special programs
(para. 57 above) and new sources of counterpart funding (FINSOCIAL funds)
are expected to iuprove the funding situation. Overall, the risks
associated with this project are acceptable in view of the expected
benefits to low-income farm families and the important institutional-
building aspects of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the two Project Agreements between the Bank and,
respectively, the State of Sergipe and SUDENE, and the Report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
78.       Special conditions of the loan and conditions of effectiveness
and disbursement are discussed throughout this report and summarized in its
Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 5, 1985
Washington, D. C.



- 29 -
ANEC I
Pane I of S
1AZL                                UllW  ODUin                * 
WV TCOSUTT                      UTITS} 1W
inucDIr       mama IrU               nIDu      A
inh&  197(tk    snasanTh.    LAT. umaica & CPA            son
N& CVMa          SQ. a)
TOTAL                            8512.0      1512.0     1512.0
ACRT'JLTURAL                     136.4       19".2      2)52.7
-w "a cPI  (tUS)                      0o.0       0o0.0     2210.0           210.6                    2245.3
XMINr CUDSWI   PRCLP
(KILORANS oF OIL UQUIVAUNT)      214.0        *12.0      740.0            "5.5                    1122.6
111=11111O Am  Lr    9WSICS
POPULATIOP.NID-UKAR CTHOIISAN)  72594.0     93847.0   126u0..0
UMA  POPULATION (C OFw TOTAL)     44.9         35.8       u.s             46.5                      46.6
POPULATION PRWECTONS
POUATION  YEA Sg 2000 (NILL)                           181.1
STATIOUARY POPULATION (HILL)                           302.6
POPULAT ION ICUNTUN                                      1.3
POPULATION DWIS1Y
PFR SQ. U.                       8.5         11.3       14.6             35.7                     82.9
PEt SQ. M. AGRI. LUD             U4.4        48.4       32.7             92.4                    13.9
POPULATION ACE STRUCTLUR (R)
0-14 IlRS                       43.6        42.7       40.9             39.9                     31.6
15-4 YHS                        23.8         54.3       35.6              WC.0                    61.1
65 AMD AMOVR                     2.6          3.1        3.5              4.1                      7.1
POPUIIATION CROWnK RATE (Z)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.8        2.3              2.4                      1.6
URANJ                            5.7          5.0        4.1              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE MIRTH RATE (PU 10S)         42.7         35.0       31.2             31.3                     23.4
CRUDE DRATI RATZ (PMR TIUS)       12.9         10.3        8.1              6.1                      8.8
ROSS uPODUCT1ow RATE               3.0          2.4        1.9              2.0                      1.6
FMILY PLUMINC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL THS)             ..       111.0      203.6 It
USERS (I OP NURIED USER)           ..          ..         ..             40.3
FOOAm a rmaco
INDEX OF FOOD tPOD. PER CAPI
(1969-71-100)                     89.0        102.0      133.0            114.3                    116.5
PM CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I. o R QUIRUENTS)     106.0       104.0      107.0            110.6                    128.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS ER DAT)         64.0         62.0       60.0             67.3                     89.7
OP WH1M ANtIAL A  PULSE        35.0        34.0       36.0 id          34.1                     34.5
CHI1LD (AUES 1-4) DEAH STE        19.4         12.5        8.0              5.7                      5.2
LIFE OUECT. AT SIN (TUAMS)        54.7         58.9       63.8             64.7                     67.4
INANIT IDRT. RATE (PER THUDS)    118.2         98.6       73.4             40.6                    34.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (CP?)
TOTAL                              ..        55.0       77.1             6.4
UL                                ..         78.0       u.s              78.
RURAL                             ..         28.0       56.                .2.
ACSS TO SICEA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTML                              ..        58.0       64.8             52.9
URAN                               ,         85.0       33.7             67.0
RURAL                             ..         24.0       31.7 K           24.5
POPUATION PER PFUICIAN          2210.0       2130.0         ..           19)7.7                   1065.8
POP. PER NWIIIC PESON           2810.0       1120.0         ..            815.8                    764.4
POp. E HOISAL no
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0      250.0 k          367.2                    326.3
URDN                           250.0        320.0         ..            411.5                    201.5
IRUAL                             ..           ..         ..           2636.3
AIISSIONS PER  OAL RD               ..         18.6         ..             27.3                     20.0
AVERSE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
IAL                               5.1         4.3        4.9*
URBAN                             ..          4.6        4.7
RURAL                             ..          5.2        5.3S.
AVERAE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOML                               ..         1.1
UA                                ..          1.0
RURL                               ..         1.2
ACCESS TO EUCT. (2 0F UILLINCS)
TOTL                            38.7         47.6       67.4
DUR                               ..         75.6       U.S
RURL                               ..         .4        20.6



30-                                         ANNEX I
Pate 2 of 5
UOUL         REUUUIICR GROUrs (wilTED AvEAGEtI) L
KO0T                 (MOST RECENT ESTTIATI) /b
a tRCENT       MIDDLE iMOOKE           NIODI-DiNmU
ZTIMATiZiL&    LAT. AMICA * CAR              EUROP
AlUTID ENROLLMEN  RATIOS
PRDIAI  TOTAL                      95.0    *     4.0     9 3,                 103.4                     101.1
HLAT                    97.0         84.0        93.0              106.3                     105.5
FINALE                  93.0          64.0       93.0              104.5                      96.7
*EC0NfAYI TOTAL                    11.0         26.0        32.0 /zb           43.2                      59.1
mmz                     t1.0         26.0        29.0 a7j           42.3                      68.9
FNU                     10.0         27.0        33.0 i;           44.5                       50.6
VOCATIONAL (0 F UECONDARY)           18.6         16.7         59.2 lb           33.6                      21.6
PUPIL-TAHE  RATI
PRIMATY                            33.0         28.0        26.0 j            30.1                      25.1
SECONDARY                          13.0         13.0         14.0              16.8                      20.5
ADULT LITERACY RATZ (1)              61.0         66.2         76.0 /t           79.5                      75.6
cou.uwTI
PAIEEGR CAhI/TNOUSA/D FOP             7.6         16.6        41.9               46.0                      54.7
RADIO  WRXIVIPJ/Td'UIAND POP         65.4        108.4        165.1             223.6                     164.9
TV   CIVISVR/TSHOUIAD POP            16.5         44.3        119.7             107.2                     123.8
NEVIFAPM  ("DAILY GENRA
INTERn") CRULATOIN
P   TROUlAND PPULTION              52.9         33.6         44.0 lb           63.3                      96.3
CINIAI ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       4.4           2.0         1.8 :             2.6                       2.9
1        FOM
TOTL LA     PORCE (TR0US3         23326.0      30411.0      40363.0
INALE (PERCENT)                   17.2         20.1         23.2              23.2                      34.5
AORZCULTURZ (PERCENT)              51.9         45.6         29.9              31.5                      40.7
INDUsTlY (PERCENT)                 14.8         16.3        24.4               23.9                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              32.1         31.7         31.8              32.2                      42.9
NALK                               52.7         50.3        48.9               49.3                      54.7
FINALE                             11.2         12.6         14.8              15.2                      31.0
ECONOKIC DZPZNDUCY RATIO              1.4           1.4         1.4               1.4                       0.9
-          1IXUEOU
PRCEINT OF PRIVATE INCQI
RECCEVED BY
HICIZST SZ o0  4USE4OLDS
lNUG     201 OF NOUSENOLDS         60.0         63.5        62.0 /.
LOWEST 20X 0F HOUSEN0LDs            3.8          3.2         2.8                 ..
LOWST 401 OF NOUSEIOLW             10.8          9.0         9.4                 ..
-z.ss nW   Cs
ESTIMATED ASOLUTE POVERTY DICE
LEVZL (US; PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..           ..             2U.2 
RURAL                                             ..        150.0 /d          184.0
ETIMATED RELATIVE POVEY INC
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
MRJAN                                ..           ..       465.0 /d           522.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        332.0 Od          372.4
ESTIDAMA POP. BELOW ABSOLUTZ
POVERTY INCOmE LEVZL (C)
URB A.
ROAL 
'IOr AVAILALE
IOT APPLICASLE
N OT E S
L.,  The  rop averags for *eah indicator are ponatotanelshted  rithmetic ms   Coverge of countries aong the
indicatora dapands on availability of data and l. not unifor.
lb   Unlear otberwia  noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; nd data for least becant Estimuata  betwen 1980 and 1982.
I'  1975; /d 1977; It 1976; /f 1979; a  Jgun1s 1973 primry rad secondary education cower age groupa 7-14 and 15-17
Intead of 7-10 and 11-17ln earlier years; therefore, most recent *estiateu are not comparable with earlier data;
A 1978.
JUNE, 1984



in  eatd ind ap ad a. -  madns W"aataes- Maaannp
an us      IAs 'USI~ inilta Sil. lwaa oadsip in etia           )
.-I. Jda aeaaI          aalaaflaal    linsawaaa,!telA.lloaiasa2!
a am"itU  O.45W  -o b     ina a; AVi s43
saeIMO adda'maa=edasaTp .   S nate    e0i  ana plsia       a. Maqdam
-     "a        I f)f    AM pta- afwo ieta..~ alsWA
a-Mias Kas -can a- pmawt nidan.. - sn.andj Ilnat e a- ewen
_- a  'elseu   wa1-afta atats paaata  - (aye da.raa
"tal t.ni                                                                   pa. '.la.pf --I=al   Pal5el@lS naNkl - ilan -aS  aat
ma-nalat ea-a.i alepe  aiw"Tap  Ie                                                                     tane3 a'M            .    aaji paWON.  paqet) Alda. Ann
-;.%.U 4m p- slailan dolaindado                                   .10.~~~~ V.aa NOT     Wfa   la -11 ITataus   a. tel) wacae1-       .aa
aniLn  mita   qia    e   -                                       M"aha~   i  AaeS    ia
Slelse.-.  tt t*il i  eesaa-'atifad  a ntAl  -  Et-'         pitW.  ast  Ie asai  t. &jSI   Cane1     -   a.siala.omnlL.
liii - asaiwa  I aI S'2  aAea aataw  si. s;aetaa Ml   BStPat                                                                                a-a.,.''7(-_  q
.aMMi  otIS 'at hIatt 5.  ON lawalailia     Modo-a(pe 'it. 1lat
lfl'   159 OaL vtotS  C1 Iaaa  -weI 'Il-   aP J. Seaft  lanas.                             'GINNtep    i P" Dig 'Outail cmi  -all ana  pattic V adpvtasdam
taest              P- l5l ~aMo oWap.a"nep      fl         flalad aasaaq                ins  pa 015    atl61 As    -d     I 
T- seat- pa. dcqa -  -ateaa W  sS .aaa"LP-piawq etJ. iaanlee                                             . 414aeemti  s it %,mt st               sPLC   lt
-sa)a.m  aIalaplaidt gIft Pnad-.ad %e a4 ple.                      % at 05 WA A%  aSSli   'pEA   wat Isej thla    LAI"    -ama  tea-  jaI
in maeo  ampe a in "v~ amt etelidil tl Ja seas U soa a-es-it.
-aplwaS                       a-talc    al5ct-s  mao Ii imaiaa .a, -aa.awem        MMa an--sae
js mladg   eaei aad W ad -    ,                         o-eAqlaAt fwatS -tead           -fl.-1 Maq    0- iaui  at Pins  Alt Sa ft   'aPI lad       a11
ISM Egfl='np   1                                                       LSt 'it  f-tel Itwee PI"-"i
-lan it5  ini  ci i-1ntlain  'aa1lalSSd  P eabaItet2i -  pin0
-rt-si pan  -*lj nt.ldeebtieaa- eatit  APd 1--aJaAd-Ia lia   bsaiptin   ilto  in lttliE5
a   e   as. a, pa u  aw   ntr-,.nd sa Jotaw, -d  9IIF       -vaW                        an-s, .-i fali. teealauaaAaa .  lam   mn   w  -eawli aP. -an
-. 1   d   Nana "M  `ewaja   not ase     a -n It  et           st i      a-d,tiat p a to -o o a-m "t a   ' lad daid  -ar m a t    ma  ttl " P
Il'-faind StI bet in  'aiettdld MSOO  pa Slaa-in" aw . milata                         -aee'n   tntA.. a_te.L slda               Sa.a  aa  i   ela
M .1 ntdta.Uej - illoej in  ate   Ln.- (knr   ..Up etltti  ala                       110'PaIIma1I atl,I..P
aspi 'sass t-ap sate  tarn p allaPcS-d ae nalPd  d iein -Aa.!a.t.ta.                      a  MAn'    qe. pa -daeoadd aaafW (aam   l   ai                   IP
in astet.sa-i -  .a3flffladt 'latat. am ala, -Wi. - EPaR ,                             ;.) ataaIa5a  10alias,i aP.     tn.'na"  at. (se-1  p. Poaaan-   .e
'ai   atte. P- atsa    fitMNa M -Jala  san Mao     .l1Tiliaat   i   se -aP- -                                                       -ItACffl7U    l;7e'iE
In IJ~~ ntat   tiaa at eatW:atetI  M ai'a  taa  a n -IaPdt
h)aao'l  aiaaS    1 'm .aa    halas.3.af  pNaftI.SjmAy                                 eSea        tiasa   alc  '   eaaalssn.eaI
p ane blitlt 'aesa    .-tl@I.leu.         -       iWlTUtlW. M   -IiL                       eea ses laate 'a-s  p0J Sadl   flwanaa -awe at  haaani
pmn llrq"   'Naiend"1311 Alpph-a  .                dFiVr                     aa#J4&  N 'en0 patas1 Vu.  aat sellat-sll ja. ala   I.Pmatetielb
omawn                 S. ~~-SPAnta Seasd aNX    hTo.ae   .s.    Ia   lAa.  .1attb F
a. a-5t I SthlaP al  ~          ~            "PM   140                                                            -eaaanu.s             'nibS 
si) we flaws -                   I0.                                Ceant t aidtlnit aii                                    adall.ttsd
_aa 1msa1-         asi P   t      illas,a AtAna  ana-flAl.ttCttif                                                                                    'a)J
"ampmSaa.amu   -aalmSnN  - l nat   ...iealAl lJ!pPlp                                inae  'etajhpesai   a55 MI                  now. tine  11111
esatasl 5 paetadn   5 laatia.da ~aaa-la   us  ajid  esa
anon, Ows v-lmeat  a."ta' aatsaeo                                                                   'aaa za
am  - Pnt  spaad a t   n .   eseP 1Aad mada  ano *asP tanj. a  n  aaPIai  eat  aat   i   at 
a    -P-L"ot .aa.t   aw,.  asel   t-o e il l,s n te   s   ean tu                                                     _ ___ __ __ ___ __ __ ____p___I
si-a- nIsee  saw. leftis. - lUfliiSrinUaTl1l iFt5,P                      acZ.-pt. La"  qalaesd  a-we  La sw  ~   -t    n's'
P- -ado-ol -add-low- NamSSi                                          41)m.ai.e 'aIS  staJn.ladao-labssaI.  Fesasa       ottetiaicd
-W    'sasaN pa' saa M n    satiaanda W                sallawa                         int taib-tltib SI3-- -f5l  cie            O  lalsla-.a
a. ail. aa  feA al*liht alt-p Ite-ilIl -  tef.-A eae&wiesalt spa -en,1151  in ! 'Sl sal  ea    A R-
at..  ea~.'~-; ha ahsa latIil aias  as-jcaa  in                               ..asesaMs14  P   .d.2- 1 1 66:AW,   115.~ v    liilWA
'i..Ma NtaaOs.b-~Ao                           MNsiecza  I-Ali aas ,'iiA-i at..- naw-vii-i to 3 sita.adai a   't
I wS=...laada att s.% .-        Se  1-ai      st-a  t                           a-I  tpa -iAs: h    -1 Stttitla Ous   . l at laoldad m.(aO tisil O13i
as msaasatea.t letataitaaiaeait tnai-- m aa    aap= x inae                  ea      on., es    --si  atetadasassp    at) q1 -1ioa UltWUtUl
tnlii.Aaa Shata i-s~i  P9  Acs seaasiP s  eAaa Mn tIAePPO                    'lha  n da   StN eel Imtaa       ctipns   tas'n
aiapl-a tant a.      solo5  - a1a-si  atics  -8  t A. hIew                    IW-'Sa "I Ntlaa Asl La etataaaeaaia     w nl lald fit P at
1-  flSbNS1 Pn -"wa"j  Pi  easi a   ttaeata!n ewsa                                       ellma. a  et.aj nAlltadd  pue Ms1p A. 'aim  at ep. 'uVWI
atalid mS laon.  do naatteaean       Sea i Acaiat'nMIRsM isa                        qti        .It _eaa  suasaae5   aaiapa    lt-i
SW  iwataiwa   astic    a al p- - leaastp  e   alsa    lsaam    lA allIS we 'emawln- 'a"                              ic at   -c-n   ota asta
la- a    aspir  iatsam a   es eas   aal  aspnji                                             tin, t-al mn-.adiiv ad   ptasidmaua  matl sa-sp
astieadaas 5  apt..idatd -  A.a   i  at0-  at. as elMN  aM19 km  ais                  lltte X-   tjtIcas Ne an    'na11"ad I  siseit.     c.taatlp
st-ad.  pA. a             I teta-If -     .      c -Sattem  litel.a   inP iiled i.r-t ea aa-M                                              flUOfht
r- -n-   J..  anAto    ~a.                                      panAS1.3i oalapead sea, a-as.    N Iaaaaa in, SaI     pSeata
eat. eala p. in initmaw nit MS 1Mad, pat 'anasegaod DaMelP.d
Ai WON ted pat mal met Oa. hpstaae, Aaltlae at ad;taip tPadan
'Anltmnsid-  Cettlam tales in  '-aae -W 'ter   a,3 ca                         MA mis  nan o    tant  tAtlai aspM  asmmsad ea, '.:.A
'sajet acts-me          nM    a  psMW aa)sd- 1nossoss%p  toatlaman -s  esl asad  Sttetfas   '-I
pal  eset-la  nsad   apalia  lattac  'pataatea   aa.taaw             AstttJs nam saae. Nastatt  isa -ma.        -d -Nola   paica
tinlSa asoueSIe Nda" a oeshi-  'acialtens   a o%~ee    peaaM asa intmawssma maledap   bas ar.I..
51 Peat Ct a   -  S  is en sen ieia      ce    t'iali                             atep is Satmks  .asaan leeGINSSob  enIsI os -oma4 v i apapwasu   ca
aletlab ariaasaIereg9la~   Lees  e r, i5   plazamle  -w iOiedc eitia., awe.  d m       ac                                             emeasss
'apa i* ian at. ~~~~~15iii                                   6
in oltanecilemaalsn"w  sa ac eta.('SI 'a ft.t 'nsa-i 'matts                    we1  '-aIPSa1  agd    lelsaso 'IPAPwalai led  'atta iipt pae  as.)  ane   ll1a
tP.   PmaNaNisi, e-elwdit 25 "aip  (.ma. lefiawpe  etit-a  lactm                           tessna   ja otameat   a-as  1cnc -.4         ttml    inel .m
an ftas anae)  ' mA% aeaamd  twa  'asot   a- u    al ora "cIa.
l.sPtaae~t etteat hlteld sanatiwii  'a matlVe in  n-a  mu                                                                 ei.ap Sal in '.ld.iii 'Owl M
Ia36. tat.'".d Pabmtlatwlts  we t   fAin elitt  in  ltid  m a4 i LVN led -4             'so-al 9-mcision le    ftl pis easts  cite.  .  g      uui
PsIla-IdLa sSs-    la~atpmttesdad- naal   itesla.de ltmI                      'l101.   IW"WW    atlqP    wo    adsap test p
1 hawa"acidf  jasr   ippeaniMnd                    l U1TU 'rEriWo                                                                         'e Ie nA,aa   l
s m    i-n   i Alo-as lIme       a lmmNi  la-at ansa1macmiatepa i  ltetatmia  w- ap sals  am eaa1 irsI  alesar   0ai it'stmw  i
p  s4jWasasIwasela   selewl  p. aIn.".p  not AP  lt aql jatiamai op al INsa mlet atnt  asa-   dm8A .a-asl=    a ta"  Sina  iAe -e"         " Sep  SIa-I mai
law~   44 ~PAto"in mVAl. w" pw      'wetn i adeA. nea   mof SaM. p sale'~ anisasoftsaGMnsae pSt aaI   nidant "'an. maIn  a lp4alea
at tlesae'Catlatam   Jo c   a,"" 'asp at tatmetmn  WI  011AINa maa= j di sim3m c-eaaa  pIa" ea Mdataa        palwsamtw  Wm. MlA  BAS La  -w   laaa
unwISe tells de=,,mlainteg
IoXINeY ia



- 32 -
cUoIIC tItNc*rTRxs
Popalat l1ns     126.3 -11t0m (1932)
CGP Por Capitsa  L52.240 (1932)
.d41cater                                'arnt                       AVern  Lanal increase (K)                   are of COP at Naghat priceS (K)
(1milion                                                                             (a C.,)  (t Ca.etat7  r.o)  . at Curr   Pric.s
IN   yaget)             37       10.ts_at  19743-mo    3_93-6            3970        7        13  3
National Aecoanta
flie Domestic Predect /a                          209.S0O                7.7        10.6        6.9        1.1           100.0      100.0       100.0
Agriculture                                      21.13                 1.9        5.7        4.7         2.2            10.2       10.9        10.1
Imd.tnY                                         77,417                 9.2       11.6         7.6        1.9            35.6       17.2      3l.9
Sarwiea                                         111.I39                3.0       10.7        6.3         1.3            54.0       .51.9       53.0
Connanotten                                       163.632                7.7        9.8         5.7        0.8            77.6       71.9       80.3
Croar Invast_ant                                   37.135                9.4        14.6        5.2       -0.4            22.7       32.1        17.7
* ports of Cwed and NIS                            23.621                8.2        11.2        7.3       11.8             6.7        7.4        11.3
tlortt of* Coeds ad xni                            19594                14.5       17.2         2.8        1.2             7.2       11.4        9.3
Crad Dhmestic Savis8                               43, 1a9               7.9        12.9        6.1        2.7            22.2       21.1        19.7
Amount                  Arae Anmel Increse (K)                 Comemitiatn of Nerchandl-a Trade (2)
CNtiKlt  11S$ Cnrrt)           {(at Costant 1970 Prica.)                      (t Currt Prcee)
1973-60     19833-3                1970         3915       1963
Noerandiea Traea
archandl. Ku-porrt                                21s                 11.1            7.7            12.4                 100.0        100.0      100.0
Priiry cl                                       10.403               8.3            1.1             G.                   76.7        62.7       38.4
anufactura   d/                                 11.296              2.2           13.2             19.5                  22.5        34.        531.6
Narchandta Import.                               3S5429              14.3           -3.3           -0.6                  100.0        100.0      100.0
Food  nearal.)                                      a               -6.7           17.5           -1.3                    4.5         3.0        6.3
PcrColu                                         3*.179               7.6            4.3        -  -8.7                   11.2        25.4       53.0
Nachinerr and Equipant *1                        2.50S              15.2           -7.S            -0.3                  36.2        32.2        16.2
Other                                            3,777              23.3           -1.9             1.3                  43.1        39.4       24.5
1975          3974          1977          1978           1979          1930         1931        3932        1933
Priess and Term of Trade
CDP Deflator (1970 - ICO)              305.1          44.3          632.7         392.5        1.399.4       2.724.6     53696.6   1I1l0l.I    28.272.4
lachange Rate (Cr1/U1S)                  8.1           10.6          14.1           13.3         26.9           S2.7        93.1      1I0.0        577.1
Kaport Price Index (1970 - 100)         176.0         192.0         226.0         22A.d          26.0          2e0.0       252.0       225.1        191.7
import Price Index (1970 - 100)        242.0         25S.0          286.0         317.0         3d9.0          431.0       474.0       52L2        493.5
Term  of Trad  Index (3970 - 100)        72.0          75.0          79.0          72.0           68.0          67.0        S3.0        43.1         33.8
An x of CWU
(at Currant Crusairo PricdM
1970           1975            1979           1980 IL       1981 I/  19Q2 IL
PubIli  nanc  (Cantral Covernmant)
-urran  KvMa                                                                 16.6            19.3            20.8            20.1         33.9    21.2
Currant tapediture                                                           14.4            1.8             17.6            19.8         20.2    25.4
Surplua (*) or deficit (-3                                                    2.2             t.0             3.2             0.3         -1.4    -4.2
Capital 2upediture                                                            2.6             .8              3.7             4.1          3.5      3.4
financtng (Net)                                                               0.4           -0.2              0.5             3.9          4.9       7.6
1935-70          1970-75          1976-0D              191-36
other Indicltore
CN? Cench. late (1)                                                          7.7              10.7             646                  1.8
CIOi par Capita Creeti into (1)                                              4.6              7.7               4.0                -0.6
ZnergU Conumwtton Cream mate (II                                             7.2              3.7               6.3                 -
ICOx                                                                         2.9              2.2               4.3                13.0
Narginal S-visg  tata EL                                                    20.S             27.9               7.3                3h.7
Impart Elaticity  f/                                                         2.2              1.6             -0.1                  0.6
a/  At =kat prima; conerted at av*rag a *xae  rate.
hi/  Iatimate.
C/  Iucladee coffee (beaN  and aeluble). other agrlltetral productm. and  twrals.
d/  Includes eanufctrerd and wmil-procaeend prodacta.
;/   lnelnd-n traeapertatim  matertals.
7/h  19I3-36   _4s         _ _-        _      -"4 .ftC =-   - .
19f0-3982: tdic!  gmrs.mC  -.nii.cr. ;        nZwcL&  t:.rougi  tI. %...tary bodg.t and weo  niger gorarnet fundn. an veil as trensfere to che
federal enterprise.
Sorce: Conjunturs  ceedice. PCP: lncu  Central de laatl: Ursail St ndard  nd.il (World anok),                                        Df-caeer 220. I3Z



- 33 -
manw  m'.           q,w ama  u.n                                      rSu
s1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMC *^l1                                                   NW                                                                  MI
FPyalIms      lit, silo.m _02
ins       1 o        W17       1971       37        1i11        L.a           L         low        u          am    1     m
1k *0m d mm ad  _lm                           4,7C      4-01l       -4,027    4,036    -3,.33    -12,364    -11.173         -I4.       4.171      -2.6       4,10      -3.,3
II,dvgh                                       166                0 3,13  II,t  U. 1S as               2      3,3           aas        a.w         "tl      at        sa,w
i.e  S                                      -1        -2,        -230       -13.32    -,0           ,3 -U8.0                .3?    -1,D4       -14.W7    -7.013   -M3.72
ke MsM I-3                                             -2.1m ,3   -4,        -337      .4,93      4,21       4,44         -Isa       -u3133    -32,330    -13.714   -13,37w
(d dd,h as Ime pn IN) fH O-3.                        H D (4111      113)   (-4.164   (4,13)   (4311)   (4,179)         (-*,03)  (- 9,33)  C- t9 l)         ,70   (-,13
1b  i4asr urta                               -1,4      -1.14      -I.370      -3.0    3      4,373  -33      -2101         4,3=       4, -141 -.9          -3,7AM    -4311
lter mu'                                           2          1         -         71         13        IN         17             -          -          -         - 
a4,7M     4017       -4.037     4,013    -10,021    -12,234    -30.76        -31430      -41711    -3,63      -4aos    -3.3
mrest IM        I                                m          i         ISo O       71      1.a        1,111.0    1,3" "91                   i                   a732      go
W   la= Cu)                                    431        342        3.611    u10036      3,237      3.4730      .93          6,40      3.73       #,14       3.113     3,33
11  .l(1(16 (3                                                              (332,16 t 2    Ml1U4)   (11.7231   (3.063 t (17.  (1OM)    (7D33)   (17.13)   (133.19)  (19.32)
Auldwina                                 (-4.1522    (4X.68)   (1-2,123    (..3144)   (-4,43)   (4,310.0) (16)          (4.3)   (-3,3)   (4.)  (-30.131 (-3,.0)
bui   law itS  Out)                            -ItI      -as        -ml        -217       418        416       -10           -33         32        4w       -3I,0     4.13
Wer   1am    r..l. S                             210        VA      -1,33       433         a2       4,063      1.313         4.031      1.376    -3,332      1.A          -
Ch       t        (-grc4 )                         gm      41,192        W      4,3A2       3.213     3,321       -            4.03          3      -3.03      -k.07    -1.191
lium l ftr    if 4_061                                      6.5,4     7.23       11.663     9.639     6,913      7.40          3.M        3.110      '.S         .Ass    91.32
l_         -am" d tp"                                A         6.3        72        30.2    3   6.6      L3          6.1          L22         L2        4.7       464        4.1
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ACRU
1w75      lilt       IWT        Ws        1179       AW         33            339
Rwirat oea Ow aN  dl_bm                        23,233    3.63       36.11,1    4,46      31,362     3%f68      8,612         70,60      73,31
MUcua p_ ldy U    Ai    mid                  12,708     17.39     21.3s      3,34      35.711    31,30       43.33         V1,39      3,06
-Bia sam                                    3.99       4.431     4,717      3,61       S.        6.416      7.34A         6.317     1.011
30                                        (3.033)    (1.27)    (1.43      (3.602     (1.927)    (2.9      (2,13)        (21)    (36)
W-.                                        (2,3M      (3,214)    (3.1142)   (3679     (0824    (4,.367    (4.923)        (3,34)    (e,c3)
.m     mm                                   9.77      12.13391    16,313 7   ,3       3,33       21,36     3,6376        3,411       60
Pivlemm                                      9,392     11,123     3,00       16,332    13.38      16,60      1732          2,013     21.32
labi a   a  (PmAM  afy)                        36M79      6.6       8,411    3D39        12,46t     140631    349"9          3307       3,9.1
TWA     zl..e  at Ur tai                        6 ,91      .160      9,212     1,%164     I,3        3,Ol3     15.03         12U,731     7,323
atbUe ud p6lc3' g ud                         3,703      4921       3,422     3,114        152       ,663      iw97          ;eaS      7,06
Deft"  O=                                    43         40         392       480        "4         467         2t           Ut       1,302
IA                                           2D0        17a        a         2wi        32 3D  2               1            27       3. 1211
DOW umrwitI                                   119       113         92        136       211         92        33i           216       2l
Pdil   =me                                  2,L91     4332    4.182         9.216      6.197.    7,312      3,32          6.446      6.1
prim"  r _m     d                            3,194      3.9        3,381      ,0        2,376      3,192      6.063         4.51        223
Migt b4
*J~a      nntm pom=z                                                  1141 4322  3,862  3,252  11,147  13,103  16,68         3483  l ;.22
iseut (am)                                  (1.677)    (3,423)   (1,3       (2,437'   (3.35)    (3.4132      (7.77M        (1.216)    7.72
.,lU a I* d dyn  EQG                              4Q5   J.7            4J.        3m         3A         3,0   t N.3             75.4       47.4
FMyu ,u2duI W                                      2.9       2.6        1.0        3.7       4.3        4.3        L4            1.3        3.6
Acts luarut urn mu ,_8U'p eS bt>3 CI)^ 37   7.6       6L3         9.9       ala       12.3       3.2           12.7       1t.4
0(1St mal                                          7.7        7.9       L          7.3        Li        9.1       9LI           3.9        3.3
As tiSaulWf .ainuun  lam                9.0        113       1001)      30.0      11.3        9A         9.7          3o.9       9.
11.4      16.3       36.3      14.5      1340        32.9       33            13.7      12.
Muemutu                                            7.0       9.3        3.7        9.3       11.2       6.7       199           31.2        3.4
4.7       4.3        141        34        3.3        3,3        LA            3.9        4.6
13  daa.tngmsutstmi gpm tU  ham (1)                3.5       LI         3.2        1.3       2.6        134        LA            4.9       36.4
nodbtshhll  -r mwule (                             .3        3,2    L     7        L7        L2         Ll        L2            2.5       4.6
la 2 of tul WJ dde eubDtdf
D*c~~~~~~~~~~~ i t tual MA3 S  _    1wetS
-aftflgN                                                         at iw cd Of          am33
atr *tnsm d ML St etaduw
dthal_m do wWul   SYu                                                   30
Pabulm  aml    IDymma                                                   9f
tfib.   I            e e wam   Ns  W                                                                                                          lr. Wu   r k;
l be tnAla    dew 1931 NOm luISdltn Mt, .mMmert Smute.
tWos Slier  1.i.           a     ad n  etsmdu o  mbSe mld-
lii St  w1.                                   b IL
R&U debt ad. .
$ hsa w us en. ~w
bai eta  a iMM )k).
.imm -s1 d bail;  m5U  aft Data. 3978413 Cu; W.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
THE STAIUS OF BANK GRCUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUNMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan $   Year           Borrower                  Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
t(US Millions)
Sixty-five loans fully disbursed                                   2,619.4
1075     1975 Brazil                           Roads                 110.0        6.9
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry               95.0        1.7
1152     1975 Comipanhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry               60.0       12.3
1195     1976 Brazil                           Rural Development      12.0        2.3
1207-5   1976 Brazil                           Feeder Roads           55.0        2.7
1317     1976 Brazil                           Agro-Industry          83.0       27.0
1362     1977 State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development      42.0        2.2
1406     1977 Petrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer             52.0         .5
1411     1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio        Fertilizer             55.0         *7
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977 Brazil                           Education              32.0       12.6
1488     1977 Brazil                           Rural Development      11.0        3.0
1525     1978 Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Sewerage              110.0       57.6
1537     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development      24.0       14.8
1538     1978 ELETROBRAS                       Power                 130.0       22.7
1557     1978 Brazil                           Roads                 114.0       27.7
1562     1978 COPE9JL                          Petrochemicals         85.0         .9
1568     1978 Brazil                           Agric. Extension      100.0       26.1
1589     1978 Brazil                           Rural Development      37.0       18.0
1654     1979 Banco Nacional da Babitacao    Sites and Services       93.0       11.7
1656     1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage    100.0         22.3
1714     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      26.0       18.5
1720     1979 Brazil                          Urban Development       70.0       29.4
1721     1979 COPEL                            Power                 109.0       31.4
1728     1979 Brazil                           Rural Development      40.0       24.9
1729     1979 Brazil                           Irrigation             28.0        7.3
1730-5   1979 arazil                           Roads                 110.0       33.8
1822     1980 Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control      58.0       56.8
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            130.0       31.3
1824     1980 CEEE                             Power                 114.0       73.2
1839     198D  Brazil                         Urban Transport        159.0       53.0
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            139.0       42.4
1867     198D  Brazil                          Education              32.0       23.4
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development      63.0       52.8
1895     1980  ELETRSUJL                       Power                 125.0       92.6
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0       30.2
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                  54.0       44.8



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Pape 2 o-f 3
A.  SUMMARY STATNEMEN  OF LOANS (Contrlaued)
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount less  Undis-
Loan     Y Year          Borrower                    Purpose      Cancellations  burned
-                                             .___       (US Millions)
1965     1981  EBIU                             Urban Transport         90.0       63.4
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           180.0      120.9
1989     1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Development   250.0       139.2
2015     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             29.0       19.0
2016     1981  Brazil                           Agriculture             60.0       27.2
2060     1982 Brazil                            Agrlculture             67.0       39.5
2061     1982  Brazil                           Health                  13.0        6.9
2062     1982 Brazil                            Highways               240.0       88.5
2116     1982 Brazil                            Agriculture             26.4       18.0
2138     1982  ELETROBAS                        Power                  182.7      152.9
2163     1982 Brazil                            Agriculture             26.4       21.2
2170     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development      123.9      107.4
2177     1982 Brazil                            Rural Development       42.7       34.9
2193     1982  Brazil                           Urban Development        8.9        6.8
2196     1982  CVMD                             Iron Ore               304.5      148.8
2224     1982 Brazil                            Feeder Roads           154.0      137.7
2225     1982 BNDES                             Developn.nt Banking   220.0        50.3
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Ilabitacao     Water Supply           302.3      251.8
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0      374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Devlopment        67.8       61.8
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7       48.7
2347     1983 Brazil                            Export Development    352.0        85.8
2348     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture            303.0       10.0
2353     1983 Brazil                            Agriculture             65.2       61.0
1729-1   1983 Brazil                            Agriculture              7.7        7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                            Agriculture             22.8       22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                        Power                  250.6      227.9
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  222.8      202.0
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education               20.0       19.9
2412/1   1984 Brazil                            Education               40.0       40.0
24467    1984 Brazil                            Federal Highways       210.0      210.0
2447/E   1984 State of Sao Paulo                Health                  55.5       55.5
24487t  1984  State of Sao Paulo                Health Studies           2.0        2.0
Total                                                9,725.3 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 1,588.2
Total now outstanding                                8,137.1
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                               8,137.1
Total undisbursed                                                3,782.9
/1 Not yet effective.
7Y No IDA credits kave been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 36 -
Pop 3 t 3
L  SWUUF  r C DWM38              (as Of hear i. 1984)
Fiadhm    n iUs$EIJM
be                                       O b lI g  e r                               Typsof  Sns lrss f1                         t        UQ Ial
1957                Sl_ceu de kbil Ma. db Dsec        dit Ietrltiet Equlpmt                                             LOD0       _       lAO
2958                oaemrt. B. A Ciulu. a    l                                   ltlp ad hpr                            1.3       -        1.20
1958                D. D. L   FLntIc  do  asil, S. A.                            Aut ie bruts                          0.45       -       'lA5
M958                wtlpsOer2mSd dor-11, . LA. - Inttatrl. a Ct_rdo               lter Vth s                            L45         '       LS
1959                CapaL Mimada Cmnto Portad, s. A.                                  t                                  1.31      -        2.3D
299                 CmOsm Calua, S. A.                                            ?alp                                  4.I0       -       4.00
19K/19UI/1972       Ab Villara, S. A.                                              mi                                   L8O       1.31     9.53
19b161959           PqWt a CaLulm  Catue S,  A.                                   Plp aid I.r                           3.78      3.41     7.19
19711972            Ultrafrtitl, S. A. - IMstri . Card. da FntiU-lt               partilasm                             L22       3m      11.25
1959                1'stSm Unis, S. A.                                            ftreddmtcla                           5.50      2.88     L38
1970                Polleains   S. A. LiWetia a Cardo                             b      trdadddla                      5.50      2.3      L383
1971                lbngo, 5. A. tistrrsi a friero                                 btrodedmla                           4.60      I."      LV4
1971                lio Grads - CWudUa d Caldole do Std                           haRp                                  4. 9D      -       4.10
1972/1975/t         Co         de CLN      tas de IC t                                                                 19.14      6.7    175.a4
1973174m/843/l4   Cmqndt Suia  ,s ai o..s.m - MB                                  stud                                 76.97     12.1    19.24
1973                Caiutl ltub      Dw1qt had - RIOq a tat Halt Dbw                                   nt               5.00       -       5.00
1973/1978/19h3   b      a  da D sw     tee 8d Rasrga tunis - OMii L A.   mLa md wa sad SRitag                          85.00      8.74    3.74
1974                launtm  Vilare. S A. LOUmto na  lad ut  qp                                                          L60        -       6.L0
1974                Pars de Tod   Thst p, SL A.                                   Tiatll                               31.00       -       21.00
1975/1979           Cqow Carbeas Indnsti  Ltd.                                    Cabn SIsk                             6.15      1.19     7.37
1975                Oftd  hbrbd_, S A.                                            P.eudeus                              10.CO      -       MOO
1976                '.-'cA  an"tris - 7-11 do, 1 tob.e, S. A.                       TIS                                 6.45      1.00     7.45
19761D              Tour S. A. - Tit Catadum no  ibudeta                          Tatl                                  16.30      -   I 23
1977                  as. A. Produnc  IHralargkm                                  Te a_d Aisdas Catla                  2D.00       -      20.00
1977                maugracu Rao do    Se A. Li sg                                                                     ISAo        -      1500
1978                Clan  SSdmmug   S. A.                                         Tern ad Sud                           7.00      3.00    10.00
1979                VolWe doktel I        a - dnaiC , S. A.                       "MLt Ydeds                           6000       5.27    65.27
1910                H.dqg d td,     S. A. - tiUhm                                 bSyl  Cast.                           2.00       -       2.00
196D                 e       Pahr S/A - Dorm - ADsmleanr, lduStdA
e Cemmrcio d O01_glm.in                                    hs-411                                3.50      L00      4.50
19D0                Vilinl Inna       de Bnm   A. - VDlfi6                        fn ad  St                             5.00       -       5.00
196D                Pp! - Cjfdda Imdltal. de Pbp l,     lmj                       finls   ao tCtdedl*                  1OO        LW      17.00
191D                Ddediada Cimt S. A.                                            Oasid. lbodetmla                      -        0.25     0.25
196D                Som   Adn OdaO_ e Htaln SMI                                   FerlnaD                              35.00      6.00    41.00
191D                Polml,  Patreqaisla                                          COsiss and hntdals                   43.00      5.W 40   a
19U1                 1Ur a                                                        Iaq ad Cqicat HIut-                    -        1.50     1.50
urn                 C    qwa Br1          a  D epuas  - COM                        osd ad  Ri fte i                     5.50      300      L.50
1911                TiunEo                                                        Ounisl ad Pae _dls                   46&00      4.0D W    .00
1982                Canto CAE                                                     Com and Cmawelen  1taa               40.00       LW     45.0
191                     b      S. A.                                              raw   awitat lad                     30600      0.45    30645
19b                 Cia  iqrne do Plamc4dcsqe  (OtP)                              Ibwy Cs0ta HalE                       -         0.06     0.06
196                 Atlas FPrific                                                 Feod ad Feud Ptem                    13.00      -       13.00
1963                 Coqafla thmis do      (U3fl'PA)                              PIa al                                6.10      -        6.10
1913                FS   - PiWda lsprau  S.A.                                     tIp Af  -r  ok*a3                    5802       5.17    6 19
191D                SoCO/S.A.                                                     Feod ad Feod Pkoeuiq                  3.0       2.50     5.50
19s                 CDas                                                           Cat ad catonleton HadaS             35.00      -       3.00
19b4                Coqila Arelq_isica 1hd1                                         Q _sla ard Peutdesls               2D.00      4.00    24100
Tel GrOm Comiont                                                                         S86       96.67  1.019.53
Low Cur.laoms. Telon d,tau. Papeuts ad  ias                                              647.07     15.13   1620
Thatl Camta No hId by  FC                                                                iL879     7L54   357.33
tel Ud llasd                                                                             136.55     13.49   13L0.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementa_y Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  2* years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  SUDENE and Federal and State
Government Agencies with Bank
and PAO assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank   :  1982
(d) Appraisal mission departure        : June 1984
Ce)  Negotiations                      : February 1985
(f) Estimated Loan Effectiveness       :  September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.  Loan Conditions
(a)  rural investment credit would be granted in accordance with terns
agreed with the Bank (paras. 51(d) and 66);
(b) community support grants will not be disbursed until an agreement
between the SCU and the grant's beneficiaries has been signed
(para. 51(f));
(c) the SCU and the SDR would be staffed and maintained under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 51(g) and 52(a));
(d)  land would be avdilable for distribution at times and In
quantities agreed with the Bank (para. 54);
(e) annual planning and budgeting for the Northeast Rural Development
Program and for the project would be submitted timely to the Bank
for comients (para. 58);



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(f) the project accounts and the Special Account would be audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank (para. 59);
(g) the Federal and State Governments would enter into all operating
agreements required to carry out the project not later than six
months after loan signing (para. 60);
(h) dam design and construction would be subject to periodic expert
review (para. 61);
(i) federal and state executing agencies would employ consultants, to
an extent and upon terms and conditions satisfatory to the Bank
(pars. 61);
(j) market improvements would be subject to SUDENE approval and would
require a prior agreement between the municipality concerned and
SCU (para. 61);
(k) state and federal monitoring reports and summaries would be sent
to the Bank at agreed dates (para. 62);
(1)  term of reference and institutional arrangements for project
evaluatlion studies would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 63);
(m) funding procedures would be maintained on the terms agreed with
the Bank (pars. 65);
(n) onlending terms would be as agreed with the Bank and adequate
funding will be provided for rural investment credit and for
short-term production credit (para. 66);
to) irrigation charges and water supply tariffs would be maintained at
adequate levels of cost recovery (pars. 67); and
(p) procurement procedures (para. 68).
2. Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) All current regional rural special programs would be unified at
the regional and state levels and SDR's staff would be reduced to
agreed levels (para. 57); and
(b) The Bank shall have received the administrative regulation
(portaria) establishing the funding procedures for the Northeast Rural
Development Program (para. 65).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
3. Special Conditions of Disbursement
(a) COHIDRO vill be reorganized in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
prior to disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated to the water
resource development component of the project (par&. 61); and
(b) Bank approval of final designs, resettlement plans and operation
and maintenance plans and receipt by the Bank of proof of land
acquisition, prior to disbursement of any loan proceeds allocated
to finance construction of any public irrigation scheme (para.
69).
4. Special Conditions of Cancellation
The amount of $1.0 million equivalent, set aside to finance the
construction of one or tvo additional public irrigation schemes, would
be cancelled if such construction is not justified by prerequisite
feasibility studies and If the funds are not committed to a specific
project approved by the Bank by December 31, 1987 (para. 70).
I .



__ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ _.__ _ _,__ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ _                       IBRiD    !Ub48
ArLANrIC
4.   ti.    ~  *  t .. 4 r I A"N r 1-C c        oc E A JV                           J^ ~        W
OCEAIN
RIO GRANDAE 0DENE^Oj('
ses>S W )J>~~~~~~~~~~ fuin.                                                       -FZcd R..o De1
.~~~~~~~~~~ ,                            Y      ,      .. I{v..8. 1A/.__9hi&i
N~~~~
R A                  A~~~~~~~~~~RGRMAE
p  I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~o  shosi 
17-   \    IU I N  5/S\Neot G    t A I S   s/i|/g                 ""~~~~~~~~~~. rtDtnolar, Bounari-
/  4   \              2  5SANOTvoF>f{l Qo     |                       y.d.cm wd ol 
bohl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEIE 19UP
AS'  ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      l*                     2A'~~p 
0 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~IIISI



0  10  0 I I  0
BRAZIL
:m    BjH,A
CAMINDt 05Q < r i     
\.SEMI-Di_J>y     
Vf1BAHI
. t~~~~~~~~SSA::
1.~~~~~~~~~~~ENO






