Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE C.:LY
/ V JR ~-?3 -6'2
Report No. 5350-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
March 12, 1985
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
| This document has a restricted distribution and niay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =          Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
USS1.00                 =          Cr$ 1,640.00 1,
CrS 1.00                =          US$0.00061
CrS 1 million           =         US$609.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                  =      January 1 to December 31
Nqortheast Rural Development Program =       April 1 to March 31
Project                               =      April 1 to March 31
1/ Exchange rate at time of appraisal (June 1984).



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BANESE           Banco do Estado de Sergipe
(State Bank of Sergipe)
BB               Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNB              Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
CD               Desenvolvimento Comunitarlo
(Community Development)
CEASA-SE         Central de Abastecimento de Sergipe
(Central Marketing Organization of Sergipe)
COBAL            Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
(Federal Food Company)
CODEVASF         Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Company for the Development of the Sao Francisco Valley)
COHIDRO          Companhia de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Ridricos de
Sergipe
(State Water Company)
COMASE           Companhia Agricola de Sergipe
(State Agrlcultural Supply Company)
CPATSA           Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Seni-Arido
(Center of Agricultural Research for the Semi-Arid
Tropics)
EMATER-SE        Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de Sergipe
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA          Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER         Empresa Brasilelra de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Eederal Company for Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension)
FAO              Food and Agriculture Organization
FINSOCIAL        Fundo de Investimento Social
(Social Investment Fund)
FUNDASE          Fundacao de Desenvolvimento Agricola do Estado de Sergipe
(State Land Institute)
Tis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disbosed without World Bank authorization.



FUNRURAL         Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Assistance Fund for Rural Workers)   -
IC               Comissao Interministerial Para o Nordeste
(Interministerial Commission for the Northeast)
ICM              Imposto a Circulacao da Mercadoria
(Value Added Tax)
INEP             Instituto de Economia e Pesquisa
(State Planning Institute)
MC               Conselho Municipal/Comunitario
(Municipal/Community Council)
NRCO             Unidade de Coordenacao da Pesquisa Regional
(Northeast Research Coordination Office)
ORTNS            Obrigacoes Reajustaveis do Tesoro Nacional
(Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury)
POLONORDESTE     Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
PROCANOR         Programa Especial de Apoio as Populacoes Pobres das Zonas
Canavieras
(Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the
Sugar-Growing Zones)
PROHIDRO         Programa de Recursos Hidricos
(Water Resources Use Program)
PROTERRA         Programa de Redistribucao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-Industria
(Land Redistribution and Agroindustrial Modernization
Program)
RDC              Conselho de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Regional Rural Development Council)
SCU              Unidade de Coordenacao Estadual
(State Coordinating Unit)
SDR              Superintendencia Adjunta de Desenvolvimento Rural
(Adjunct Superintendency for Rural Development)
SEPLAN-PR        Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Planning Ministry)
SEFLAN-SE        Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado de Sergipe
(State Planning Secretariat)



SERTANEJO        Programa Especial de Apolo ao Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arlda do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semn-Arid Region of the Northeast)
SRDC             Conselho Estadual de Desenvolvimento Rural
(State Rural Development Council)
STC              Conissao Tecnica Estadual
(State Technical Commlssion)
SUDAP            Superintendencia da Agricultura e da Producao
(Superintendency of Agriculture and Production)
SUDENE           Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)
SUDEPE           Superintendencia para o Desenvolvimento Pesqueiro
(Superlntendency for Fish Development)
TSA              Programa de Pesquisa do Troplco Semi-Arndo
(Send-Arid Troplcs Research Program)
UEPAE-SE         Unidade de Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual de
Sergipe
(State Braach of the Federal Agricultural Research
company)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ......     .................................  iv - vi
I.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ...............................1.... 
A.  Agriculture it the National Economy  ...................        1
B.  The Rural Northeast   .       ...................................  1
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural
Northeast  .............................................        2
D. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector  ...........         3
E.  The State of Sergipe  ... ............. ........***..*....  ......  4
II.  THE PROJECT . .......................      ................  .......  6
A.  Origin and Rationale................. ...... ...........        6
B.  Objectives  ..............................................      7
C.  Strategy and Design                    ....                     8
D.  Brief Description  ......*...... ..........*... 
E.  Detailed Features  ... ................... ...  ............. .    10
i.) The Sergipe Rural Development Plan         ................   10
Water Resource Development  .......................    10
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production ..    12
Rural Extension  ...       ..............................  13
Rural Investment Credit          .........................   14
Marketing  ............      .........................    15
Support to Small Rural Communities  .............  .    16
State Project Administration        ....................    17
Land Tenure Improvements       .........................    18
ii)  Regional Program Activities .      .    .....................    18
Regional Program Coordination        ...................    18
Regional Research and Research Coordination   9.....    1
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during June/July 1984. The mission comprised Ms. P. Pomerantz, and
Messrs. C. Emanuel, A. Cajina, M. Fairless, H. Floyd, J. Innes,
D. Mitchnik, and H. von Pogrell (Bank).



- ii -
Page No.
III.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING   ... ......................   ......                             20
A.   Project Cost   . ...............               .................. a * a a ........ a   20
B.   Financing   ...... ...... ... .           ......ee *..   * .................           20
C.   Procurement   .................* * * * * **  *  **.      .................... es. .    22
D.   Disbursements   .............. 00-0 ..............aa....                               23
IV.   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ........ . . .  ..............  ........... .... ..... .           24
A.   Project Organization  and Management   .......                     .............       24
Federal and Regional  Levels   .o.........................                           24
State and Local Levels   .. ............................                             24
Unification  of Rural Special  Programs   ................                           25
B.   Annual  Planning and Budgeting   .......... ...............                            25
C.   Funding Procedures  and Channels   .......................                             26
D.   Operating Agreements   .....a..a..a..a..a..a.aa.aa.aaa..........................a aa ..a...  26
E.   Monitoring and Evaluation   .............................                              27
F.  Accounts  and Auditing   ............  ........... a..a....                             28
V.   PRODUCTION,  DEMAND AND MARKETING   .......................*.                               28
A.   Production   ..........................a-. 0..aaaaa.a                                  28
B.   Demand and Marketing   ....... . . .  a a .  a a a a * a .................................   29
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS   ......o............ . .    ...................... .                     29
A.   Illustrative  Farm Models   . ... .......... ....  ...... 0......                      29
B.   Effects  of Drought   . ................... . .. .....*. .......                       31
C.   Farm  Incomes   ....................a..... ........                                    32
D.   Fiscal  Impact   .. .......  * ....... .... ... ..... 0.0... .. ... O...               32
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ..o ....................                               33
A.   Economic Rate  of  Return   . .... . ... .. a.           o...... ... . .. .. .         33
B.   Other Project  Benefits  ....... . . . .  a a.  .         ................ a...*       34
C.   Environmental  Impact   ..........  ..................**....                           34
D.   Project Risks  ....... . . .  a .. . . .  * ................  ......... . ........ .   35
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS  TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   ....                                36



- iii -
ANNEXES:
1. Evolution of Sergipe Agricultural Production
2. Project Priority Areas and Municipalities
3. Support to Small Rural Commiunities
4. Criteria for Compliance with Selected Key Loan Conditions
5. Annual Cost Phasing of Project Activities
6. Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
7. List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
8. Key Indicators for Monitoring
9. Total Annual Area and Production of Major Crops
10. Yields and Areas of Major Crops at Farm Level
11. Project Economic Analysis
12. Principal Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
13. List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
CHART:
1. Project Coordination and Management Chart
MAPS:
1. Program Area - Map IBRD 18480
2. State of Sergipe - Map IBRD 18481



- iv -
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republin of Brazil
Project
Executing
Agencies        SUDENE's SDR for regional planning, coordination, and
supervision; EMBRAPA for regional agricultural research;
*and Sergipe's SCU for coordination of all state and federal
agencies participating in the Sergipe State Rural
Development Plan.
Amount:         US$61.3 million equivalent.
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Beneficiaries:  Some 17,500 low-income families operating farms of up to 50
ha in the State of Sergipe would be the direct
beneficiaries of farm improvement components. An
additional 35,000 families would also benefit from the
water supply, community development, and marketing services
components.
Project
Description:    The proposed project is the first in a series of projects
within the new Northeast Rural Development Program,
designed to increase, on a regional basis, the efficiency
and impact of rural development efforts. The project would
improve the beneficiaries' standards of living, incomes,
and employment opportunities.  It would support water
resource development for both production and consumption,
adaptive agricultural research and rural extension, rural
investment credit, marketing services, funding for
community sub-projects, and state project coordination.
The proposed project would also provide support for
regional program administration and regional agricultural
research and research coordination. The regional
activities would assist in the implementation of rural
development projects in all ten Northeast states, thereby
benefiting an estimated 600,000 farm families expected to
be reached during the first phase of the Northeast Rural
Development Program.



-v -
Risks:          Although simpler in design than previous Northeast rural
development projects, efficient delivery of project
services and interinstitutional cooperation among a number
of agencies would be important for project success. During
project preparation, institutional weaknesses were
identified and measures introduced to improve institutional
effectiveness and coordination arrangements. The project
includes monitoring, on-going evaluation, incre .3ed
technical assistance, and community involvement to foster a
more efficient institutional environment. It does not
include some important rural development activities, such
as land tenure improvement, health, and education.
Regional projects for health and education are currently
under preparation; a Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project will be presented to the Executive
Directors shortly. While efforts have been made to
coordinate the planning and implementation of all the
projects, the execution and expected benefits of the
proposed project are not directly dependent on the
implementation of the sectoral projects. Recurring drought
conditions present considerable risks to small farmers and
to expected benefits under the project. Decreasing
drought-related risks for small farmers has influenced
overall project design, especially in the areas of water
resource development and technology generation and
diffusion. Finally, delays and shortfalls in counterpart
funding have posed problems in on-going rural development
projects. Recent changes in funding channels, a new source
of counterpart funds, the consolidation of rural special
programs, and the concentration on key production
constraints should help secure adequate counterpart
funding.



- vi -
Estimated Costs:                                -----US$ Millions--
Local      Foreign       Total
I. Sergipe Rural Development Plan
A.  Water Resource Development             6.9         2.3           9.2
B.  Agricultural Research                  5.5          .4           5.9
C.  Rural Extension                       15.5         1.1          16.6
D.  Rural Investment Credit               12.8         2.3          15.1
E.  Marketing                              2.0          .5           2.5
F.  Support to Small Rural
Communities                          6.4         2.6          9.0
G.  State Project Administration           5.6          .4           6.0
Subtotal                                  54.7         9.6          64.3
II. Regional Program Activities
A.  Regional Program Coordination          19.6        4.1          23.7
B. Regional Research and Research
Coordination                        10.5          .8          11.3
Subtotal                                  30.1         4.9          35.0
Total Baseline Costs                      84.8        14.5          99.3
Physical Contingencies                     1.1          .4           1.5
Price Contingencies                       25.7         3.8          29.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      111.6        18.7         130.3 1/
=.=..       ==no         =mm
Financing Plan:                                       USS Millions-       -
Local      Foreign       Total
Government                            69.0         -            69.0
IBRD 2/                               42.6        18.7         61.3
TOTAL                                111.6        18.7         130.3
Estimated Disbursements: -------------------USS Millions -------------
Bank FY       1986    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Annual         6.3 2/  5.5    9.4   10.4   10.4    9.7    6.9    2.7
Cumulative    6.3    11.8   21.2   31.6   42.0   51.7   58.6   61.3
Rate of Return:        19%
I/ Including about USS7.7 million of local taxes.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$3.3 million into the Special Account.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the National Economy
1.01      Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing about 30% of
the labor force and contributing about 11% to the GDP and about 38% to
total export earnings (1982). During the 1970s, the gross value of
agricultural production grew at an annual rate of nearly 5%. Since 1980,
however, the value of agricultural output has declined, reflecting lower
international commodity prices, adverse domestic pricing policies,
unfavorable climatic conditions, and a restricted agricultural credit
supply. Per capita production of basic foods, such as maize, beans, rice,
and manioc, has also fallen. In most years, Brazil has remained
self-sufficient in food, except for wheat. However, periodic imports of
beans, maize, and rice have occurred, particularly in bad crop years.
1.02      In recent years, the share of agricultural lands devoted to
industrial and export crops (sugarcane, cocoa, soybeans, citrus, and
tobacco) has risen sharply. Brazil is the world's largest producer of
coffee and sugarcane, the second largest of soybeans, and the largest
exporter of coffee and orange juice. The changing structure of
agricultural production reflects the fact that most productivity gains,
expansion of production area, and increased market integration have
occurred in the South and Centerwest, while the North and Northeast have
largely continued to follow traditional agricultural practices. Because of
the sector's key role in curbing inflation and improving the balance of
payments, the Government has shown a continuing strong commitment to
agricultural development. l/
B. The Rural Northeast
1.03      The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco,.Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahia, as well as the federal territory of Fernando do Noronha and the
northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais (Map IBRD 18480). Its total
area is over 1.5 million km2, over 18% of the country's total area. The
Northeast has been viewed as the nation's foremost problem region since the
late 1800s. The country's wealthiest region during the colonial period, it
subsequently lagged behind as industrial, agricultural and commercial
activity shifted to the south.
1/   For further discussion on the agricultural sector, see A Review of
Agricultural Policies in Brazil, September 11, 1981, Report
No. 3305-BR.



- 2 -
1.04      Drought and uncertain rainfall, a highly skewed land
distribution, and limited urban employment opportunities have resulted in
high levels of poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million
people migrated from the Northeast. The large number of recent migrants is
at least partially the result of five successive years of severe drought
affecting large areas of the Northeast from 1978 to 1983. In 1980, the
Northeast had a total population of 35 million (about 29Z of the national
total) growing at 2.2% per annum and an average population density of 22.5
inhabitants per km2. About one-half of the population lives in rural
areas, and over 50% of the regional work force is engaged in agriculture.
Rural incomes are very low. As of 1980, over 80% of the rural population
earned one minimum salary (about US$675 annually) or less, a little over
35% of the national average, and the poorest 50Z received only about 10% of
total regional income.
1.05      The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities, includiag
sisal, manioc, sugar, and cotton, represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile, coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture (largely sugarcane and cocoa). The agreste is a
transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas, dominated by mixed
farming for the domestic market as well as the raising of beef and dairy
cattle. The sertao, comprising some 750,000 km2, but only sparsely
populated, is the largest of the sub-regions and the most vulnerable to
periodic droughts. Ownership of agricultural land throughout the Northeast
is highly concentrated; about 70% of farm establishments are under 10 ha
and occupy less than 6% of total farm area. At the same time, farms over
500 ha (1% of the total) account for more than 40% of all farm area.
C. Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
1.06      Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works and emergency programs and
to incentives for export crops grown on larger farms. The slow pace of
socioeconomic development and the need for improved regional planning led
to the creation in 1959 of the Superintendency for Development of the
Northeast (SUDENE), first Linked to the Presidency and later transferred to
the Ministry of Interior. SUDENE was originally responsible for the
coordination of all public investment activities, drought emergency
measures, and powerful fiscal and credit incentives to attract new private
investment. Initiative for regional policy formulation was transferred
back to the Federal Government in the 1970s, and SUDENE experienced a
series of institutional difficulties. However, SUDENE continued to play an
important role in the coordination of federally funded rural special
programs implemented during the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.07      The rural special programs have followed two approaches.  The
first is based on the integrated development of selected subregions and is
focussed on specific target groups. Programs following this approach
include the Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the



-3-
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), and the Special Program of
Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar-Growing Zones (PROCANOR). The
second approach is largely concerned with alleviating the effects of the
recurring droughts. Several parallel programs, including the Water
Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program
(TSA), and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal
public irrigation projects, have attempted to increase the productive use
of scarce water resouces or to provide temporary drought relief
assistance.
1.08      Planning of a major new development initiative for Brazil's
Northeast began in 1982, stimulated by the recognition that the aggregate
contribution of the special programs and federal irrigation projects in
alleviating rural poverty and underemployment had been limited. The
exercise resulted in a new rural development strategy to be implemented
through a series of sectoral projects in such areas as health, education,
and federal irrigation, and a regionwide integrated rural development
program. The Northeast Rural Development Program is a 15-year program
based upon a comprehensive regional policy framaework, a set of subsectoral
strategy guidelines, and multiyear state rural investment plans. While
borrowing from past experience, the program has several innovative aspects,
including the integration of all rural special programs with unified
planning and implementation procedures.
D. Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.09      The Bank has so far made 30 loans, totalling US$1,803.5 million,
for agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million and one
supplemental financing loan for US$30.5 million, both under the Special
Action Program; three, amounting to US$519.2 million, for agroindustries;
two, totalling US$60.5 million, for livestock development; one for US$18.2
million for grain storage; two, amounting to US$100 million for
agricultural research; one for US$100 million for agricultural extension;
and 19, totalling US$672.1 million, for various settlement, irrigation and
rural development projects, 13 of which are located in the Northeast2!,
two in Minas Gerais, and four in the North and Northwest.  A Northeast
Region Land Tenure Improvement Project, which would increase land tenure
security and identify lands for subsequent redistribution to small farmers,
will be presented to the Executive Directors shortly. Completion and
Project Performance Audit Reports for the Alto Turi Land Settlement Project
located in the Northeast showed that the project raised settler incomes
beyond expectations, but was less successful in the areas of environmental
protection, community organization, and strengthening of cooperatives. A
recent Project Completion Report for an irrigation project in the Northeast
showed that despite implementation delays due to design changes and social
tensior, in the area, beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original
21   A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study,  Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
rrograms for the Northeast," Washington, D.C., 1983.



- 4 -
estimates, and small farmers were capable of moving successfully from
subsistence to commercial agriculture.
1.10      Ten of the Bank-financed projects are POLONORDESTE rural
development projects located in eight Northeast states (para. 1.08).
Approved from 1976 to 1983, all of the projects are still being executed,
except the Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project (Loan 1195-BR.).
Implementation has generally improved over the years, especially in project
planning, coordination, and execution. Although no final evaluation
results are yet available, production and productivity increases in
non-drought years have been noted among farmers with secure land tenure in
a number of projects, including those in the States tf Se:glpe, Piaui, and
Paraiba. Nonetheless, all of the projects have experienced implementation
and disbursement delays. A number of factors are responsible: the
unusually severe and prolonged drought; shortages and delays in counterpart
funding and rural credit provision; limited execution capacity for land
tenure improvement and small-scale irrigation activities; initial lags in
the generation of drought-resistant technology for small farmers; weak
coordination between research and extension agencies; and limited
beneficiary participation in project planning and implementation. The lack
of unified planning and coordination for all the rural special programs
exacerbated these problems in some areas, leading to duplication of efforts
and competition for relatively scarce funds and trained personnel. When
possible, these problems have been addressed during the preparation of the
Northeast Rural Development Program.
1.11      The Sergipe Rural Development (Tabuleiros Sul) Project is being
partially financed by a US$26 million Bank loan (Loan 1714-BR) approved in
FY79. Experience with the project is generally consistent with that of the
other POLONORDESTE projects. The project, which includes 11 of the 42
municipalities to be included in the project under consideration, would now
be modified by the inclusion of new components (water development and
support for small communities) and the addition of three municipalities,
with the purpose of bringing it in line with the new project. The Closing
Date has been extended until September 30, 1985, thus (a) making about $5.5
million out of Loan 1714-BR available to finance project expenditures until
the proposed new loan becomes effective; and (b) lowering accordingly the
amount of the new loan. The remaining balance of Loan No. 1714-BR (about
$11.5 million) would be cancelled.
E. The State of Sergipe
Location, Natural Features, and Socioeconomic Conditions
1.12      Location and Natural Features.  The State of Sergipe, the
smallest in Brazil, is bordered on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, on the
west and south by the State of Bahia, and on the north by the Sao Francisco
River and the State of Alagoas (Map IBRD 18481). Most of the 22,000 km2 of
land is level to gently rolling. About one-half is considered suitable for
cropping, with another 45% which could potentially be used for pasture or
forest. Dominant soil types include red-yellow podzols, podzols, alluvion
complexes, lithosols and planosoils. High acidity is common, but usually



does not limit crop production. The climate is characterized by two broad
zones. The coastal area, with an average annual temperature of 26°C, has
fairly regular rainfall, averaging 1,100 mm annually. The agreste includes
inland areas and is divided into sub-humid and semi-arid zones, with
rainfall ranging from over 700 mm to as little as 500 mm and a dry period
from five to nine months. Rainfall in the drier areas tends to be
concentrated in a few brief storms, resulting in high rates of erosion,
excessive water loss, and in some cases, high moisture stress in the
intervals between rains. Average annual temperature is 24°C. The state is
drained by two major watersheds, the Sao Francisco and the Atlantico Leste,
the latter divided into five secondary watersheds. On the coast,
underground water is plentiful and of generally good quality. In the drier
agreste, water is scarce and generally saline.
1.13      Social and Economic Conditions.  The state's population is nearly
1.3 million and is growing at an estimated annual rate of 2.4%. Population
density is 53 persons/km2, over double the average for the Northeast.
About 54% of the population live in urban centers, of which Aracaju, the
state capital, is the largest. As in other parts of the Northeast, the
urban population is growing faster than the rural population, mostly as a
result of migration from rural areas. Accompanying the rural exodus has
been a decline in the proportion of the state's work force engaged in
agriculture, from 61% in 1970 to 44% in 1980. Although per capita income
for the state as a whole is about US$1,100 (1980), one of the highest in
Northeast Brazil, most of the rural population still earns below the
relative poverty level of about US$330 per capita. Illiteracy, high infant
mortality rates, intestinal diseases, and malnutrition are widespread in
rural areas.
Agricultural Production and Services
1.14      Production and Land Tenure.  Only about 16% of the state's
cropland is used for that purpose. Although a wide variety of crops is
grown, coconut, oranges, rice, sugarcane, cassava, and beans occupy 80% of
the cropped area and account for about 85% of the value of production.
Cattle and sheep are also important, particularly in the drier areas.
During the 1970s and early 1980s, either average yields or area harvested,
or both, increased for rice, tobacco, oranges, and sugarcane. Cotton and
basic food crops showed a more mixed performance (Annex 1). Production of
those crops and livestock tends to be concentrated in the semi-arid regions
of the state where the recurring effects of drought have limited use of
inputs and higher-yielding technology. Another serious constraint on
production is the high degree of concentration of land ownership. About
78% of all farms (96,000 total) are less than 10 ha and account for only 9%
of the total farm area. The 3% of farms larger than 100 ha account for 587.
of total farm area. While owner-operator farms predominate (80% of total
farms), a significant number of small farmers do not have legal title to
their lands and are barred access to the institutional credit system.
Despite these constraints, farms under 50 ha account for over 70% of the
state's production of maize, beans, cotton, rice, cassava, and vegetables.



-6-
1.15      Rural Development and Agricultural Services.  The major portion
of investment in rural areas is federally funded by the POLONORDESTE,
PROCANOR, and SERTANEJO programs. A number of government entities provide
services and promote agricultural development. UEPAE-SE, the State Branch
of the Federal Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA), together with
SUDAP, the Superintendency of Agriculture and Production within the State
Secretariat of Agriculture, carry out agricultural research on tropical
fruits, livestock and basic food crops through a main office and station in
Aracaju and eight regional sub-stations. Technical assistance is provided
to farmers by the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company
(EMATER-SE), currently operating through 5 regional and 29 local offices.
Although successful at reaching a large number of small farmers, the
extension service's effectiveness requires improvement, particularly among
farmers using irrigation and those in the drier areas. The recently
created State Water Company (CORIDRO) is responsible for water supply and
irrigation development. Federally funded irrigation projects are
implemented by CODEVASF, the Company for the Development of the Sao
Francisco Valley. The State Bank of Sergipe (BANESE), the Bank of the
Northeast of Brazil (BNB), and the Bank of Brazil (BB) provide credit to
farmers. The present banking network is considered adequate, but the
availability of office credit has been limited in recent years. Input
supply is handled by private retailers and COMASE, the State Agricultural
Supply Company, which has branches in the larger population centers
throughout the state. COBAL, the Federal Food Company, purchases a limited
amount of production from farmers, and is active in food retailing and
wholesaling in rural and urban areas. Previously, a division within SUDAP
was engaged in land titling and c!olonization, but these activities have
been transferred to FUNDASE, the newly created State Land Institute.
1.16      The Priority Areas.  Within the state, five sub-areas have been
chosen to receive priority attention for small farmer development. These
areas include 42 of the 74 municipalities in Sergipe and account for 90Z of
farms with less than 50 ha and most of the state's production of food
crops. The areas were selected with the objective of accelerating
development where small farmers and basic food crop production predominate,
but where there is still considerable underdeveloped agricultural potential
and a need for improved services. The areas selected have also been
subject to prior cadastral and lard titling operations or would receive
priority attention under the proposed Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project (Annex 2).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Rationale
2.01      The Federal Government requested Bank assistance in preparing a
regionwide rural development program in August 1982. SUDENE was delegated
the technical responsibility for regional program preparation, which
involved over 500 federal, regional, and state technicians. An
Interministerial Commission, comprised of high-level representatives from



the Ministries of Planning,. Agriculture, and Interior, was established to
provide policy guidance. In 1984, representatives from the Special Land
and Finance Ministries were added, and the Ministry of Interior assumed the
chairmanship of the commission. Preparation of the proposed project in
Sergipe began in mid-1983. A special project preparation group, with staff
drawn from various state agencies, was established by the governor within
INEP, the State Planning Institute linked to the Secretariat of Planning.
Preparat'on assistance was provided by federal and regional technicians,
the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program, and the Bank.
2.02      The Northeast Rural Development Program presents a unique
opportunity for the Bank to support poverty alleviation, increased
agricultural production, and institution-buildiag in Northeast Brazil.
During the last decade, the Bank and the Governwnnt have maintained a
dialogue on Northeast rural development issues, and the Bank has financed
ten area-based integrated rural development projects (para. 1.10). By the
early 1980s, the region's continued vulnerability to drought, increased
rural migration and concentration of land ownership, the relatively slow
growth of Northeast agriculture, the country's financial situation, and the
common problems detected in the projects convinced both the Government and
the Bank that a unified regional approach was needed to increase the
efficiency and efficacy of rural development interventions. The lessons
learned from the on-going projects, the experience acquired by state and
local institutions, and renewed political support for SUDENE now make such
an approach possible.
2.03      The proposed regional program would facilitate Bank lending and
the continuing rural development policy dialogue with the Government. At
the same time, it would permit a decrease in direct Bank involvement in
project preparation, appraisal, and supervision at the state and local
levels, fostering a greater degree of self-reliance among Brazilian
intitutions and increasing the prospects for successful, sustained rural
development in the Northeast. Because of the time required for regional
program administration to become fully operational and the varying
preparation capabilities of the states, a series of Bank loans in support
of the regional program is under consideration. The first loans would
assist in the establishment of the regional program structure and support
investment plans in specific states. However, progressively, Bank lending
would become more programmatic in nature, with much of the detailed project
appraisal at the state and local levels performed by Brazilian
institutions.
B. Objectives
2.04      The proposed project, the first in the series planned for the
Northeast Rural Development Program, would constitute the initial phase of
a 15-year rural development investment program. Major objectives would
include improving the standard of living, income and employment
opportunities for low-income, small farmers and increasing agricultural
production. To accomplish these objectives, the project would: (a) promote
water resource development and technology generation and diffusion to
decrease small farmer vulnerability to the recurring drought cycle; and



- 8 -
(b) increase state and regional institutional capacity to provide
efficient, agricultural services tc small farmers. Because the removal of
land tenure constraints (para. 1.14) would facilitate the achievement of
project objectives, activities proposed under this project and the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project have been jointly planned
and would be implemented in a coordinated manner (para. 1.09).
C. Strategy and Design
2.05      Design of the Northeast Rural Development Program has attempted
to draw upon successful rural development experiences in Northeast Brazil.
Program preparation has resulted in the formulation of regional guidelines
for beneficiary selection, investment strategy and activities, and
operating criteria and procedures. Tentative investment targets and
expected benefits have also been established per state. The guidelines are
to be incorporated in the design and implementation of multiyear state
rural development plans in all ten Northeast states. As the first project
within the program, the proposed project would contain two distinct
elements. It would provide support for the Sergipe Rural Development Plan,
designed in accordance with the regional guidelines which have been adapted
to specific state circumstances. It would also establish the structure and
operating procedures for regional program coordination and research to
support the planning, coordination, and implementation of all ten Northeast
state rural development plans. A second project, presented jointly with
the proposed project, would support rural development activities in the
State of Rio Grande do Norte. Project preparation in other Northeast
states is currently underway.
2.06      At both the state and regional levels, the project has been
designed with a view toward increasing the efficiency and impact of rural
development efforts. Accordingly, the unification of existing
federally-funded special rural programs, the strengthening of planning and
implementation capabilities, and the promotion of active beneficiary
involvement have received priority attention in project design.  The
resulting project strategy, based on program guidelines, has the following
central features:
(a)  Fewer project components than in past integrated rural
development projects, with each component focused directly on
improving small farm family incomes and living standards;
(b)  The inclusion of a community fund for small investments selected,
planned, and implemented by community groups to provide a
concrete mechanism for beneficiary participation;
(c)  Increased investment at the regional and state levels in the
generation and adaptation of financially viable technical
packages for small farmers, and closer linkages between research
and extension, particularly at the field level;
(d) The phasing in of priority areas and types of farmers so that
project services would be provided on a priority basis where land



- 9 -
tenure constraints had been or were in the process of being
eliminated;
(e) Matching the scope of proposed activities to institutional
capabilities, including, where necessary, increasing
institutional efficiency through reallocation of staff,
redefinition of structures and responsibilities, technical
assistance and training; and
(f) Improved planning and coordination, including decentralization
wherever possible, streamlined budgeting and funding procedures,
and new, unified, rural development planning and coordination
structures at the local, state, and regional levels.
In addition to these features, a considerable degree of flexibility has
been incorporated into project design. Objectives, strategy, criteria,
procedures, and detailed first-year implementation plans have been reviewed
for each project activity. Detailed programming in each subsequent year
would result from an extensive annual planning exercise, taking into
account implementation progress in previous years.
D. Brief Description
2.07      The project would consist of two major groups of activities:
those related to the Sergipe Rural Development Plan; and those related to
Northeast Rural Development Program coordination and agricultural
research. The latter set of activities would serve both the proposed
project and future rural development projects covering all ten Northeast
states.
2.O      Activities related to the Sergipe Rural Development Plan would
focus upon:
(a) Water Resource Development, including state-managed public
irrigation schemes, increased inland fish production, simple
rural water supply systems for small communities, studies and a
small reserve fund for future state irrigation sub-projects;
(b) Agricultural Research and Rural Extension for basic food and
commercial crops, small livestock, and social forestry;
(c)  Agricultural Credit, including mediur- and long-term rural credit
for investments in crop and livestock production and on-farm
water resource development;
(d) Marketing Services, including training and information services,
improvements to municipal markets and fairs, and a wholesale
supply system for rural food retailers;
(e) Support to Small Rural Communities, including the promotion of
beneficiary participation through a community development fund
for local training programs, group economic activities, and local
infrastructure sub-projects; and



- 10 -
(f) State Project Administration, including a central coordination
unit (SCU) and four regional field offices, for planning,
supervision, Implementatlon assistance, training, monitoring, and
evaluation of state rural development activities.
Project activities, to be Implemented over a eight-year period, would
directly benefit about 17,500 farm families, each farming or owning under
50 ha, located In the five priority areas within the state. A much greater
number of small farmers and their families (about twice the direct
beneficiary number) would benefit from community sub-projects and marketing
activities. A complementary program of land activities would be carried
out under the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project (para.
1.09).
2.09      Regional program activities would Include:
(a) Regional program administration, through the establishment within
SUDENE of an Adjunct Superintendency for Rural Development (SDR)
for regional planning and coordination, including appraisal,
supervision, technical assistance, training, monitoring and
evaluation In support of state rural development activities; and
(b) Regional research and research coordination, Including the
strengthening of the Center of Agricultural Research for the
Semi-Arid Tropics (CPATSA) to provide small farmer, low-cost
technology generation; coordination, supervision, and monitoring
of state research programs; and training and technical assistance
for state research agencies.
These activities would asslst In the Implementation of rural development
plans in all ten Northeast states, thereby benefiting the estimated 600,000
farm families expected to be reached during the first phase of the
Northeast Rural Development Program.
E. Detailed Features
i) The Sergipe Rural Development Plan
Water Resource Development
2.10      The project would Increaqe water availabllity for both production
and consumption uses. Activities to be financed under this component
Include: (a) two state-managed public irrigation schemes, totalling about
650 ha and benefiting some 400 to 650 farm families; (b) the expansion of a
fingerling production station to reach an annual production of 1.5 million
fingerlings to be distributed to project farmers; (c) feasibility studies
of areas with irrigation potential and a reserve fund (about US$2.0
million) to finance one or two small sub-projects resulting from those
studies; (d) construction of about 140 simple water supply systems,
benefiting about 65,000 people In communities with less than 500
Inhabitants; and (e) strengthening of COHIDRO's Institutional capacity. In



- 11 -
related activities, about 400 ha of individual private irrigation and about
2,500 cisterns and 600 small communal ponds to provide water for human and
animal consumption would be implemented with the assistance of EMATER-SE
and financed under the project's rural credit component (paras. 2.22-2.24).
2.11      COHIDRO, with support from private consultants, CODEVASF, and
SUDENE, would be the implementing agency for public irrigation schemes and
water supply systems. Prior to the initiation of the project, COHIDRO
would be reorganized and strengthened, particularly in the area of
irrigation. The Superintendency for Fish Development (SUDEPE), with
assistance from CODEVASF and SUDENE, would be responsible for fingerling
production activities. Studies of potential irrigation sub-projects would
be carried out by SEPLAN-SE, assisted by private consultants and SUDENE.
2.12      The two public irrigation schemes would each consist of a dam and
a network of primary and secondary canals. In Jabiberi, a gravity surface
irrigation system would be devreloped; in Jacarecica, a sprinkler system
would be implemented. Jabiberi has alluvial soils and level topography.
Jacarecica has a rolling terrain, with shallower soils. Water would be
carefully managed to avoid future drainage problems. In both schemes,
individual plots would consist of an irrigated area of 1.0 to 1.6 ha
associated with a rainfed area of 5 to 15 ha. Project investment costs per
irrigated ha (including costs of all physical infrastructure for
irrigation) are estimated at US$7,900 for the Jacarecica scheme. These
costs are considerably lower in Jabiberi (about US$1,900), where the
storage dam has already been built with State Government financing.
Federal legislation provides a satisfactory framework for financing and
cost recovery of public irrigation works. Partial recovery of off-farm
investment costs and full operation and maintenance expenses would be
financed through a water user charge to be collected by COHIDRO
individually or through water user associations. On-farm works would be
financed by beneficiaries using rural investment credit. Federal
legislation is also satisfactory with respect to treatment of families
currently living in the submerged reservoir areas. In both sub-projects,
the area and number of families are small. In Jabiberi, the State
Government has already purchased the land and compensated the landowners.
In Jacarecica, an estimated 10-15 families and about 70 ha would be
affected. Adequate compensation would be paid, and it is expected that
most of the small farmers would become beneficiaries of the proposed
irrigation sub-project.
2.13      Complete and satisfactory feasibility studies and operation and
maintenance proposals for the Jabiberi and Jacarecica sub-projects were
reviewed by the Bank prior to negotiations. For the Jabiberi scheme,
expected to be initiated during the first project year, resettlement plans
for displaced populations and proof of land acquisition were received and
reviewed by the Bank during negotiations. Complete final sub-project
designs have also been reviewed. For the Jacarecica scheme, as well as any
sub-projects resulting from the feasibility studies financed under the
project, proof of land acquisition, resettlement plans, operation and
maintenance plans, and complete final designs would be sent to the Bank for
approval prior to construction and would be a condition of disbursement for



- 12 -
each sub-project. In addition, the two major dams would be subject to
periodic review by a panel of experts, and in the case of the Jacarecica
dam, the same panel would review the final design and inspect periodically
during construction. Any allocated loan funds which had not been committed
to an approved sub-project by December 31, 1987 would be cancelled. During
negotiations, the State provided assurances on these matters. It also
provided assurances that satisfactory cost recovery provisions, in
accordance with Government legislation, would be implemented. The
implementation of agreed upon measures for COHIDRO's strengthening would be
a condition of disbursement for project water resource activities.
2.14      Given the urgency of providing safe drinking supplies to the
rural population, community water supply activities would be implemented
during the first two years of the project. After this period, it is
expected that a regional rural water supply project would continue the
activities begun under the project. Under the proposed two-year nrogram,
COHIDRO would put into effect water sector policies, including investment
and cost recovery criteria, developed by the Inter-Ministerial Committee of
the National Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Program.
2.15      Each simple water supply system would include a deep well or
surface source, pumping equipment, a transmission line, a storage tank, and
public standposts. Selection criteria for communities would include size
(up to 500 inhabitants), per capita investment cost, and community
willingness to obtain water supply service.  The average per capita
investment cost for groundwater systems is about US$50. In exceptional
cases, when sufficient groundwater is unavailable, surface systems
requiring dam construction would be built at per capita investment costs
ranging up to US$150. The communities would be responsible for operation
and maintenance of the systems. Prior to initiation of works, communities
would select one local person and one alternate to be trained by COHIDRO
and responsible for operation and maintenance. COHIDRO would provide
technical backstopping and preventive maii.tenance. During a transition
period, the municipalities and the State would assist the communities in
meeting operating expenses. However, by June 30, 1987, COHIDRO would apply
water charges which would cover full operation and maintenance costs.
During negotiations, the State provided assurances on this matter. A
detailed plan for operation and maintenance and a plan for water treatment,
including water quality monitoring, were reviewed by the Bank during
negotiations.
Agricultural Research and Basic Seed Production
2.16      Research activities would redirect state efforts toward improved
adaptation of low-cost technologies for small farmers, focusing
particularly on those which make the individual farm unit more resistant to
drought conditions. The project would finance incremental investment
costs, salaries, training and operating expenses for: (a) special natural
resource studies in the first project year to identify major research
problems in six agroecological zones; (b) about 85 short- and medium-term
research trials at the experiment station level covering all major small
farmer crops, including manioc, beans, maize, sorghum, citrus, and
horticultural crops, with emphasis on cultivation practices, fertilizer



- 13 -
response, and variety performance; (c) about 50 farm-level observation
units to test and adapt integrated farm production systems; (d) about 20 ha
total per annum of maize, beans, cotton, sorghum and manioc to improve
available planting materials; and (e) a foundation flock of about 220 goats
and sheep to provide breeding stock for small farmers. A detailed research
program for the first year has been reviewed and is satisfactory.
2.17      The state branch of EMBRAPA (UEPAE-SE) would be the main
implementing agency.  Basic seed production would be contracted to
CODEVASF, with multiplication under the responsibility of SUDAP. The
observation units, established with close collaboration among UEPAE-SE,
EMATER-SE, and farmers, would test successful experimental station results
and provide limited diffusion of recommendations. Once the new
technologies were fully adapted and shown to be financially viable for
small farmers, the observation units would become demonstration units to be
used as part of the state extension program (para. 2.19). Technical
supervision, training, dissemination of results, coordination with research
programs in other states and review of the annual plan of activities would
be the responsibility of CPATSA (paras. 2.35-2.37).
Rural Extension
2.18      Extension activities would support on-going efforts to make small
farms more resistant to drought conditions and improve the income and
living standards of aoout 17,500 farm families. The project would finance:
(a) construction and equipping of about one regional and eight local
offices; (b) establishment of about 1,000 demonstration plots; (c) by
year 4, but declining thereafter, salaries of about 115 local agricultural
extension agents and 80 social extension workers, about 30 subject matter
specialists and supervisory personnel, and related administrative staff;
and (d) project-related vehicles, training, and operating costs. Special
technical supervision and methodological advice would be given to
EMATER-SE, the executing agency, by an EMBRATER specialist who would visit
the priority areas at least once a month. Training of extension staff
would be provided by EMBRAPA through CPATSA,  I2BKATER, and the on-going
training program of EMATER-SE.
2.19      Some modifications would be introduced in the structure and
methodology of EMATEkc-SE.  EMATEk-SE was recently reorganized into five
regional units. Most supervisory personnel and subject-matter specialists
would be located in the regional offices, but would travel about 5U% of the
t'-e to supervise and assist local extension agents.  Each agricultural
extensionist would be trained to provide, on a fixed schedule, agronomic
advice to about six to eight groups of about 2U-25 farmers, organized
around contact farmers and demonstration units. Short courses for farmers,
field days, and excursions would also be carried out. The average
extension coverage ratio would be initially high, about one agricultural
extensionist per 150 farmers (year four). The high ratio is due to more
intensive coverage in irrigated and horticultural areas, the distance and
dispersed nature of some communities, and additional responsibilities
related to research observation units, social forestry, and marketing
(paras. 2.17, 2.21 and 2.27).  Recent EMBRATER experience indicates that



- 14 -
this type of organization and coverage can be effective in disseminating
new technical recommendations to a much larger number of indirect
beneficiaries, about five times the size of the direct beneficiary group.
After year four, a more extensive coverage, about one extension agent for
380 farmers, would be adopted once extensionists were fully trained and
familiar with the proposed methodology.
2.20      Social extension agents, working in teams with agricultural
extension agents, would work with farm families primarily in the areas of
nutrition, child care, cottage industries, small an;"al husbandry, home
gardening, and family budgeting. They also would be actively involved in
assisting community support activities (paras. 2.28-2.30). Agricultural
agents would focus on disseminating recommendations developed jointly by
EMBRAPA and EMBRATER for the drought-prone area of the Northeast. These
recommendations, to be adapted to local conditions through the research
observation units, would include: (a) simple yield-improving practices,
such as improved seed varieties, land preparation, spacing, and fertilizer
use where water would not be a constraint; (b) diversification into more
drought-resistant crops such as sorghum; and (c) improved livestock
management and increased production of sheep, goats, and honey. In
irrigated areas and areas with above-average rainfall, recommendations
would focus on adequate water and soil management, varietal selection of
fruits and vegetables, fertilizer use, pest control, and post-harvest
handling and storage techniques.
2.21      Agricultural extension agents would also be responsible for
implementing project social forestry activities, aimed at increasing
supplies of fuelwood, fruit, fodder, and small industrial wood through the
establishment of individual and communal plantations. EMATER-SE agents
would identify and assist interested groups and individual farmers, who
would provide the labor for the establishment and maintenance of small
nurseries at the ccmmunity level. Farmers would then receive seedlings to
plant on their lands with continued advice from EMATER-SE on fertilizer
application, weeding, and intercropping.
Rural Investment Credit
2.22      The project would finance mediumr and long-term credit for
on-farm investments by project beneficiaries. Funds would be channelled
through the three official bankis operating in rural areas: the BB, BNB, and
BANESE. All on-farm invesLinents would be eligible for financing except
sugarcane plantations, automobiles, and irrigation schemes larger than
4 ha. Approximatelv 6,500 farmers, or 38% of direct beneficiaries, are
expected to receive investment credit during the project implementation
period. A greater number would receive short-term production credit, to be
financed by the Government through its seasonal credit program.
2.23      The Central Bank would rediscount the sub-loans provided by the
participating banks which would obtain a 4% spread. Credit norms would be
those speciHied in the Rural Credit Manual issued by the Central Bank.
Extension agents would assist farmers in formulating investment plans.
Procedures for obtaining credit have been simplified over the past few
years, with reduced guarantees and standardized practices. In addition,



- 15 -
training seminars would be provlded to bank managers and their staff to
encourage small farmer lending and group lending, where possible.
Financing would cover up to 100% of Investment costs, with a maximum
repayment period of 12 years and a maximum grace period of 6 years. No
single farmer's total credit liabilities wouldbe allowed to exceed 1000
ORTNS (about US$8,000)3/. Cooperatives also would be eligible for
Investment credit if 70% of their members were small farmers who would
directly benefit from the Investment. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that these criteria would he applied.
2.24      The phasing out of rural credit subsidies has long been an issue
In the Bank's dialogue with the Government. A schedule for achieving full
monetary correction for the majority of loans was agreed upon In February
1983, as part of the discussions for the Agricultural Credit and Export
Development Project (Loan 2348-BR). That schedule has been adhered to in
all areas and even advanced in the Center-South of Brazil. For the
Northeast, sublect to some exceptlon as a disadvantaged area and because of
the prolonged drought, It was agreed that phasing out of subsidies woulld
resume at the start of the first planting season following the first
post-drought harvest. Accordingly, inter2st rates, now at a drought
emergency nominal rate of 35%, would be raised by July 1985 to 85% of
monetary correction plus 3% interest, and would be maintained In accordance
with the schedule previously agreed upon with the Bank. Although this
reduction In credit subsidies could limit small farmer credit demand, at
least temporarily, It Is expected that Increased credit availability would
have the net effect of increasing credit use among project farmers.
2.25      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a)
credit terms and conditions would be those agreed upon under Loan 2348-BR;
(b) any credit subsidies would be financed with a specific allocation 1n
the federal fiscal budget; (c) each of the participating banks would
provide monthly Information to SUDENE and the SCU on project credit
availability, demand, and lending per bank agency serving the priority
areas; and (d) It would place a monthly operational priority on allocating
short-term production credit In adequate amouncs to bank agencies serving
project priority areas.
Marketing
2.26      Project marketing activities wotIld increase small farmers'
marketing knowledge and options and Improve their competitive position.
The project would finance: (a) training courses In post-harvest handling,
storage, and marketing for extension agents, local marketing agents,
cooperative staff, project coordination personnel, and farmers; (b) a
marketing Information and commercial orientation service to provide farmers
with simple, timely advice on local and regional prices, consumer varietal
preferences, and storage, transport and selling options; (c) infra-
3/ Readjusted Obllgations of the National Treasury (ORTNS) have been the
prfiary vehicle for long-Lerm government borrowing and the principal
public debt Instrument In recent years.



- 16 -
structural and organizational improvements for about seven municipal
markets and fairs; and (d) expansion of the Rede Somar, a food wholesaling
service for private retailers, including the expansion of one rural service
center and related investment costs. A regional marketing study, to be
concluded during the first project year, would review the efficacy of
public sector marketing interventions and would assist in the planning of
complementary activities, if necessary (para. 2.34).
2.27      Training activities would be implemented by COBAL through its
training division, which would design and implement courses for project
extension and coordination staff and marketing agents. Extension staff
would subsequently provide training for farmers and local cooperative
staff. CEASA-SE, through direct contact and mass communication methods,
would provide marketing information and commercial orientation to small
farmers, in addition to the routine price information recording it now
carries out. Municipalities would be responsible for market improvements
and would provide any additional land required. All operating and
maintenance costs, to be recovered through customary vendor charges, would
continue to be the municipalities' responsibility. COBAL would provide
technical assistance in the design and implementation of the improvements,
particularly those of an organizational nature. Expansion of the Rede
Somar rural network would be implemented by COBAL, in accordance with
procedures developed under the Piaui Rural Development Project (Loan
2015-BR). A satisfactory feasibility study for the rural service center
has been reviewed by the Bank. During negotiations, the State provided
assurances that prior to initiation of any market improvements, a written
agreement would be signed between the SCU and the municipality, outlining
respective obligations and responsibilities, and detailed plans would be
sent to SUDENE for approval, with a copy of SUDENE's written approval
forwarded to the Bank.
Support to Small Rural Communities
2.28      Community support activities, along with project extension
efforts (paras. 2.18-2.20), would encourage small farmers to organize in
groups and facilitate their participation in the development process. At
the same time, communities would benefit from local sub-projects which
would provide needed infrastructure and additional employment
opportunities. The project would finance: (a) a community development fund
of about US$10.0 million to provide grants for local sub-projects; (b)
about 18 local community development (CD) agents, 3 regional supervisors
and 4 senior advisers; and (c) related training, vehicles, equipment, and
operating costs. The SCU would be the executing agency.
2.29      The identification, planning, and implementation of community
sub-projects would be carried out by farmers' groups, associations,
syndicates, and cooperatives. Local CD agents, each responsible for two to
three municipalities, would disseminate information to communities
regarding the fund. Project staff from other state agencies would be
called upon to provide technical back-up. Written group proposals would be
submitted to a community or municipal council (MC) comprised of elected
village and municipal officials. Each proposal would contain an



- L7 -
explanation of objectives, benefits expected, method of implementation,
detailed costs and group cost-sharing, either in cash or in kind. The
local CD agent, the regional CD supervisor, and the regional project
administrator (para. 2.31) would participate in the monthly MC meetings.
2.30      The MC would approve and assign priorities to sub-projects which
could: (a) be wholly managed and implemented by the group, with some
technical assistance, if necessary; (b) be self-sustaining and benefit the
whole group; and (c) not be financed by other project components or
government programs. Yearly limits on fund expenditures for each of the
priority areas have been set. In addition, three categories of eligible
sub-projects and their respective participation in the fund have been
established: up to 152 for group training activities, such as training in
legal aspects, accounting, and operation and maintenance of
project-financed investments, and legal assistance to groups on
land-related matters; not less than 60% for economic sub-projects, such as
small village handicraft enterprises, tree nurseries, and fish ponds; and
up to 25% for communal infrastructure projects, such as small storage units
and laundry facilities. Once sub-projects were approved by the MC, they
would be forwarded to the senior CD advisers in the SCU. The advisers
would only reverse MC recommendations if sub-projects did not conform to
the guidelines. If regional annual funding limits had been reached,
funding of the sub-project would be postponAd until the next fiscal year.
For approved sub-projects, a written agreement would be prepared for
signature by the association or group. Payments would be made in
installments, with implementation progress supervised by local and regional
CD staff. In the case of legally registered entities, payment would be
made directly to a designated bank account in the entity's name. In the
case of an unregistered group, the written agreement would be signed by the
municipality on behalf of the group, with funds channelled through the
municipality. During negotiations, the State provided assurances that: (a)
the CD fund would be established and maintained under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) no funds would be released prior to the
signing of the written agreement between the SCU and the group or
municipality (Annex 3).
State Project Administration
2.31      The SCU, linked to SEPLA1N-SE was recently established to
administer project activities. The SCU is responsible for coordinating,
monitoring and evaluating all federally funded rural special programs
within the state and for fully integrating the activities and
administration of these programs under the project. The SCU would consist
of: a coordinator and deputy coordinator; a technical advisory and
management unit, comprised of planning, training, credit, land, legal,
architectural, administration, financial control, and monitoring
specialists; an agricultural research and extension unit; a marketing unit;
a water resource development unit; and a commu-'tv support unit.  Four
regional field offices for daily project coordinati,n at the local level
would also be established, staffed by a senior-level administrator and
related support staff. Terms of reference and qualifications of key staff
have been reviewed and are satisfactory. The project would finance, by
year four, but declining thereafter, salaries of about 30 higher-level and



- 18 -
related support staff, travel expenses, equipment, building remodeling,
vehicles, consultant fees for evaluation and training, and other SCU
operating costs for project coordination, monitoring and evaluation.
During negotiations, the State provided assurances that the SCU would be
staffed and maintained under conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Annex 4).
Land Tenure Improvement
2.32      Increased access to land of sufficient quantity and quality and
secure tenure for small farmers would be essential for sustained rural
development in the State of Sergipe. Land tenure activities in the Sergipe
priority areas would be financed under the proposed Northeast Region Land
Tenure Improvement Project to be presented to the Executive Directors
shortly. Both projects are considered by the Government to be part of the
Northeast Rural Development Program. Activities have been planned jointly,
and coordination mechanisms have been established at the regional and state
levels. Increased secure access to land would increase the expected impact
and benefits of the proposed project. Accordingly, during negotiations,
the State and Federal Governments provided assurances that: (a) at least
8,670 ha in the priority areas would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries by March 31, 1986; and (b) an additional 38,000 ha in
the priority areas would be available for redistribution to project
beneficiaries by March 31, 1988.
2.33      The lands would be identified as part of the surveying and
cadastral activities financed by the Northeast Region Land Tenure
Improvement Project, and subsequently acquired through purchase or
expropriation by the Government. The size of the farm units to be
redistributed would vary, depending on the agricultural and economic
potential of the land acquired and the type of farming system to be
developed. Targets based on need, the estimated availability of suitable
lands, and expected institutional capabilities, were established during the
preparation of the Land Project. Procedures and criteria for land
acquisition, allotment, and beneficiary selection were also established.
The Government has provided appropriate assurances on these matters during
negotiations of the Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project.
ii) Regional Program Activities
Regional Program Coordination
2.34      An Adjunct Superintendency for Rural Development (SDR) has
recently been created within SUDENE to provide regional coordination for
the Northeast Rural Development Program. The SDR would: (a) assist states
in multiyear and annual rural development planning and ensure consistency
with regional guidelines; (b) provide technical implementation assistance
to states; (c) supervise implementation of state rural development plans;
(d) implement regionwide studies and training programs; (e) consolidate
monitoring information; (f) organize impact evaluation activities; and
(g) provide advice to program management at the federal level regarding
annual policy and funding decisions. Progressively, the SDR would also be



- 19 -
responsible for much of the detailed appraisal of state investment plans
(para. 2.03). The SDR would consist of an adjunct superintendent; a
coordination and planning division; five technical support divisions for
land, agricultural research, rural extension and credit, marketing, and
water resource development activities; and an administrative sub-unit.
This structure would be evaluated after the first project year, with
modifications introduced if necessary. By year four, but declining
thereafter, the SDR would be staffed by about 55 senior technicians,
including subject matter, community development, training, management, and
evaluation specialists; mission leaders; and monitoring and financial
staff. SDR staff would be trained and assisted by local and foreign
consultants during the initial years. These consultants would also provide
technical assistance and training for state coordination units. Some of
this training has already been initiated under a UNDP Technical Assistance
Project, for which the Bank is Associated Executing Agency. The SDR would
have its own operating budget and personnel and administrative procedures,
and a competitive salary structure.
2.35      The project would finance furniture, equipment and vehicles; SDR
staff salaries (excluding the Adjunct Superintendent) and travel expenses;
technical assistance costs for local and foreign consultants; and other
incremental operating costs for regionwide studies, monitoring and
evaluation. Terms of reference for SDR staff and regional marketing and
water resource studies were reviewed prior to negotiations.  During
negotiations, SUDENE provided assurances that: (a) the qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment of the Director of
Planning and Coordination and the chiefs of the five technical divisions
within the SDR would be satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) the SDR would be
maintained under conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and the results of
the first year evaluation sent to the Bank for review by June 1, 1986
(Annex 4).
Regional Research and Research Coordination
2.36      Project activities would complement and increase the efficiency
of research investments for small farmers in the Northeast. The project
would strengthen regional small farmer technology generation, increase
linkages between CPATSA and state research agencies, and support a new
institutional development role for CPATSA. The project would finance:
(a) minor civil works for additional office space; (b) laboratory and farm
equipment; (c) technical assistance and training costs; and (d) vehicles,
incremental salaries and other operating costs.
2.37      Under the project, a new Northeast Research Coordination Office
(NRCO), staffed by about ten professionals, would be created within
CPATSA. The NRCO would be responsible for coordinating intensive CPATSA
assistance and technical supervision to state research agencies. Tasks
would include: (a) review of annual state research programs to avoid
duplication of efforts among states; (b) planning of CPATSA's annual small
farmer research program in light of identified state research needs;
(c) quarterly technical supervision and advisory visits to the states;
(d) planning and implementation of seminars, short courses, field trips,



- 20 -
and other training programs for state research and extension personnel; and
(e) assistance to states in monitoring and on-going evaluation of technical
and socioeconomic aspects of state research programs. The NRCO would draw
upon specialists as needed from three CPATSA multi-disciplinary research
teams.
2.38      The multi-disciplinary teams would be increased from 59 to 86
higher level staff under the project. These teams, in addition to
providing support for state activities (para. 2.35), would also carry out
an expanded small farmer research program, including: (a) establishment,
maintenance, and monitoring of about 50 trials; (b) implementation of
about 30 farm-level production system tests; (c) completion of five
regional agro-ecological studies; and (d) production of materials for
dissemination of research results. While research topics would be
determined by state needs, it is expected that the program would focus on
development of drought resistant cropping systems, improved soil management
for moisture retentio'n: water harvesting systems for supplemental
irrigation; integrated crop-livestock systems; and social forestry.
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Project Cost
3.01      Total project costs over the projected eight-year investment
period (beginning in April 1985) are estimated at US$130.3 million
CFebruary 1985), including a foreign exchange cost of US$18.7 million, or
about i4%, and taxes of about US$7.7 million. Physical and price
contingencies are equivalent to 2% and 30% of baseline costs,
respectively. Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 15%
for irrigation and water supply construction, 10% for other construction,
and 5% for equipment, furniture, vehicles, vehicle operation ard
maintenance, and training. Price contingencies were estimated in US dollar
tel-ms, based on international inflation rates estimated at 8.0% for 1985;
9.0% for 1986, 1987, and 1988; 8.0% for 1989; and 6.0% thereafter. It was
assumed that periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a
purchasing power parity basis, would compensate for differences between
projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates. Project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1, and annual phasing of investments is shown in
Annex 5.
B. Financing
3.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$61.3 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would finance 50% of total project costs net of taxes.
This would include the total foreign exchange component, plus about US$42.6
million equivalent of local costs. The loan would be for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. The balance of financing would be provided by
the Federal Government through earmarked allocations for the Northeast
Rural Development Program from PROTERRA (Land Redistribution and
Agroindustrial Modernization Program) and FINSOCIAL (Social Investment



- 21 -
Fund). In addition, the Government would finance short-term seasonal
credit (about US$7.3 million), not included in project costs, for project
beneficiaries.
3.03      To ensure timely and effective project implementation, various
start-up activities, including those related to staffing, training,
irrigation studies, and employment of consultants, have already been, or
would be, initiated during the Last quarter of 1984 and the first quarter
of 1985. Retroactive financing of up to US$2.7 million equivalent is
proposed to help cover eligible start-up expenditures, excluding
agricultural investment credit, made after July 18, 1984, but before loan
signature.
Table 3.1: Total Project Costs
(USs million)
% Total
Project Activity                        Local   Foreign   Total   % Foreign    Baseline
Exchange     Cost
I.  Sergipe Rural Development Plan
A.  Water Resource Development       6.9       2.3       9.2        25           9
B.  Agricultural Research            5.5        .4       5.9         7           6
C.  RtLral Extension                15.5       1.1      16.6         7          17
D.  Rural Investment Credit         12.8       2.3      15.1        15          15
E.  Marketing                        2.0        .5       2.5        20           3
F. S.upport to Small Rural
Communities                    6.4      2.6        9.0       29            9
C.  State Project Administration    5.6         .4       6.0         7           6
Subtotal                            54.7       9.6      64.3        15          65
II. Regional Program Activities
A.  Regional Prograii Coocdination  19.6       4.1      23.7        17          24
B. Regional Research and
Research Coordination         10.5        .8      11.3         7          11
Subtotal                            30.1       4.9      35.0        14          35
Total Baseline Costs                84.8      14.5      99.3        15         100
Physical Contingencies               1.1        .4       1.5        25           2
Price Contingencies                 25.7       3.8      29.5        13          30
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                111.6      18.7     130.3        14          132



- 22 -
C. Procurement
3.04      Civil Works, Goods, and Consultancies.  All civil works (about
US$14.3 million) would be executed by contracts awarded according to local
competitivc bidding procedures, which have been reviewed and are acceptable
to the Bank. Brazil has a competitive local construction industry which is
capable of carrying out project works. Since the individual construction
works are relatively small and quite dispersed, foreign contractors are not
expected to be interested, but would not be excluded from bidding. In the
case of some small community development civil works, the beneficiaries
would carry out the works under written agreements with the SCU (paras.
2.28-2.30). The miscellaneous equipment, materials and vehicles required
by the project, totalling some US$10.0 million, are almost all locally
produced and readily available. Such items, which would be purchased by
the several executing agencies in various locations over the project
implementation period, would be procured in accordance with local competive
bidding procedures which have been reviewed ard are acceptable.
Consultancy services for technical assistance, evaluation, and special
studies would be procured both locally and internationally in accordance
with Bank guidelines (Table 3.2).
Table 3.2: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Type of Project                                   Procurement Method
Expenditure                                 LCB   Other    N.A.  Total
Civil Works                                    14.3                 14.3
(7.1)                (7.1)
Equipment, Vehicles and Furniture              10.0                  10.0
(4.9)                (4.9)
Technical Assistance, Training                        16.0           16.0
and Studies                                        (7.6)         (7.6)
Rural Investment Credit                                      20.8   20.8
(11.0) (11.0)
Salaries and Allowances                                      54.4   54.4
(24.3) (24.3)
Other Operating Expenses                                     14.8   14.8
(6.4)  (6.4)
TOTAL                              24.3   16.0   90.0    130.3
(12.0)  (7.6) (41.7)   (61.3)
Note:   Figures in parentheses are the estimated respective amounts
financed by the Bank.



- 23 -
3.05      Contract Review.  All civil works contracts related to irrigation
sub-projects and all other civil works contracts of US$200,000 and above
would be subject to prior Bank review of procurement documentation. Goods
packages of US$50,000 and above would also be subject to prior review.
With these thresholds, prior Bank review would involve about 30 contracts
and cover at least 50X and 20% of the value of civil works and goods,
respectively, which is reasonable in light of the Government's extensive
procurement experience and the expected workload for Bank staff. Random
checking of smaller contracts would be carried out during supervision.
During negotiations, the Federal and State Governments and SUDENE provided
assurances that the described procurement procedures would be followed.
D. Disbursements
3.06      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed at a uniform
rate of 47% against all project expenditures until an aggregate amount of
US$1.6 million for state research and US$4.6 million for extension had been
disbursed. Thereafter, disbursement rates for research and extensions
which include a high percentage of recurrent costs, would progressively
decline by 5Z each year. The disbursement rate for regional coordination
(SUDENE and CPATSA) would remain at 47%, and all other categories would be
adjusted to result in an overall rate of 50% financing of total
expenditures excluding taxes over the project implementation period.
Taking into account the disbursement profile for previous agricultural
projects in Brazil and past disbursement delays in Northeast rural
development projects, a disbursement schedule has been estimated for an
eight-year period, with a project completion date of December 31, 1992, and
a Closing Date of the Loan on June 30, 1993 (Annex 6).
3.07      Disbursements for all operating expenses and investment and
technical assistance expenses under US$50,000 would be made under
statements of expenditure initiated by the various executing agencies and
certified by the SCU for Sergipe activities and by SUDENE for regional
program activities. Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the
Bank, but would be made available for inspection during project supervision
missions. Standard documentation for civil works, vehicles, equiipment, and
technical assistance with contract values exceeding US$50,000, would be
submitted to the Bank. In order to reduce Government prefinancing
requirements, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank, with
an initial deposit of up to US$3.3 million. The Government may requjest the
Rank to make advance payments of dollars from the loan account into this
Special Account. Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account,
supported by statements of expenditure and other required documentation,
would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date of the
expenditure. The Central Bank wotild send the corresponding statements to
the Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.



- 24 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization and Management
Federal and Regional Levels
4.01      An Interministerial Commission (IC), chaired by the
Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, and comprised of
representatives from the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning, Land,
Finance, and Interior and the Superintendent of SUDENE, has overall policy
and planning responsibility for the Northeast Rural Development Program.
This includes deciding upon changes In program policy, strategy, or
composition; establishing procedures for Improved interministerial
cooperation; proposing annual funding levels and budgets for the program;
and supervising SUDENE's work as regional program coordinator. The
Ministry of Interior, as lead ministry, would establish the agenda for
regular monthly meetings and ensure that IC decisions were carried out.
4.02      SUDENE, and more specifically, the SDR, is the regional
coordinator of the Northeast Rural Development Program, Including the
proposed project (paras. 2.34-2.35). The SDR would receive policy backing
for its work through a regional Rural Development Council (RDC) linked to
SUDENE's Deliberative Council, which includes all of the Northeast
governors. The RDC would be comprised of the Superintendent of SUDENE,
senior management of the SDR, representatives of the Involved federal
ministries and banks and the Northeast state secretaries responsible for
program coordination In their respective states. Monthly meetings would
provide a forum for prior discussion of Issues to be submitted for decision
to the IC and Deliberative Council and would provide state and federal
guidance to SDR management In the establishment of regional operating
priorities, Including annual funding allocations.
State and Local Levels
4.03      At the state level, a State Rural Development Council (SRDC),
chaired by the Governor and including the State Secretaries of Planning,
Agriculture, Finance and Water Resources and the SCU Coordinator, would
meet on a quarterly basis to decide policy Issues and provide overall
guidance for state rural development activities. Three sub-committees
would function wlthin the SRDC: Agricultural Development, Land and
Finances. Chaired by the corresponding Secretary and including the
presidents of the relevant executing agencies, each sub-committee would
ensure that relevant project Issues were regularly discussed and decided
upon jointly by the executing agencies and that project activJties were
fully compatible with the overall work program of each of the participating
agencies.
4.04      The SCU would be the operational coordinator of project
activities within the state (para. 2.31). Linked to the Secretariat of
Planning, the SCU would have Its own budget, salary structure and



- 25 -
administrative and personnel procedures. The SCU would be responsible for:
(a) consolidating annual operating plans drafted by the executing agencles;
(b) supervising executing agency performance and advising the RDC on
Institutional or technical difficulties; (c) monitoring physical and
financial progress and preparing monitoring reports and reimbursement
requests; (d) carrying out on-going evaluation of project activities;
(e) implementing training courses on project objectives and strategy,
community development, and specific Implementation problems; and
(f) executing project community support activities (paras. 2.28-2.30). In
order to decentralize decision-making and Increase SCU Involvement In field
execution, the SCU would be structured into a central office and four
regional field offices. Regional field administrators would supervise
daily implementation progress at the local level and provide feedback to
the SCU central unit. They would be instrumental in promoting
Intermunicipal Councils, to be comprised of municipal representatives and
local executing agency staff.  These councils wTould provide a regular forum
for beneficiary participation In planning and Implementation. The SCU
central coordinator would also chair monthly meetings of a State Technical
Commission (STC), comprised of SCU managers and regional admJnistrators,
and the technicians responsible for project activities within each
executing agency. The STC would discuss specific operational problems in
implementation and decide on appropriate measures to be taken by the
executing agencies and monitored by the SCU (Chart 1).
Unification of Rural Special Programs
4.05      Improved efficiency in rural development administration and the
unification of Northeast rural special programs are central elements In
project strategy. Accordingly, as a condition for ioan effectiveness, the
Government would provide the Bank with evidence that the planning,
budgeting, staffing and admdnistration of all current regional rural
special programs had been unified, and consolidated within the SUDENE SDR
at the regional level and within the SCU at the state level. Since
unification of programs would eliminate administrative duplication and
decrease staffing needs within the SDR as compared to present levels, as
part of this condition of effectiveness, the Government would provide
evidence to the Bank that the quantity of SDR staff had been reduced to
agreed upon levels (para. 2.34).
B. Annual Planning and Budgeting
4.06      Review, refinement, and adjustment of the targets and costs
established Initially at appraisal would be carried out through an annual
planning and budgeting process. By about July of each year, the process
would begin with the state providing preliminary estimates of funding
requirements for the next project fiscal year (beginning April 1) to the
SDR. The SDR would consolidate these preliminary estimates for discussions
In the RDC and IC at the regional and federal levels. Once the Federal
Government had established overall funding availability for the Northeast
Rural Development Program for the next year, allocations per state would be
established by the SDR In consultation with the RDC, and communicated
formally to the state. Subsequently, each executing agency, under guidance



- 26 -
from the SCU, would prepare a detalled annual operating plan, with proposed
activities and expenditures. The SCU then would consolidate the plans,
ensure internal conslstency and forward them to the SRDC for approval. The
state operating plan would then be sent to the SDR for review and
approval. The SDR would consolidate the state plans Into a regional
operating plan, which would be presented to the IC. This plan would serve
as the basis for the portaria (administrative regulation) signed by the
ministers, legally establishing budget allocations for each state, CPATSA,
and the S)R. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) the regional operating plan, with summaries of each state operating
plan, would be sent to the Bank for comment each year prior to its formal
approval; (b) the portaria, the final regional operating plan, and the
Sergipe operating plan, would be sent to the Bank no later than April 1 of
each year; and (c) any proposed changes In the planning and buidgeting
process would be submitted to the Bank for review and comment prior to
enactment.
C. Funding Procedures and Channels
4.07      In conjunction with the Bank's Special Action Program,
Improvements In funding procedures for Bank-financed agricultural projects
were Introduced. These Improvements Include monthly direct channelling of
funds from SEPLAN-PR to a specific project account in each state for
activities executed by state agencies and directly to federal entities
which are executing agencies, and a monthly advance system operated by the
Central Bank covering the estimated Bank share of monthly expenditures.
During negotiations, the G,overnment provided assurances that: (a)
satisfactory funding procedures, Including monthly direct channelling and
the advance system, would be adopted for the Northeast Rural Development
Program, Including the proposed project; and (b) any proposed changes In
those funding procedures would be promptly communicated to and found
satlsfactory by the Bank prior to adoption. Receipt by the Bank of the
signed portarla legally establishing the funding procedures for the program
would be a condition of effectiveness.
D. Operating Agreements
4.08      Consistent with a commonly used system in Brazil, a series of
written agreements (convenios) among project coordinating and executing
agencies would be entered Into. These convenios Include several types:
(a) convenios between STDENE and federal agencies which provide technical
support to the SDR; (b) convenios between the SCU and federal agencies;
(c) convenios among executing agencies, with the participation of the SCU,
when more than one agency Is Involved in executing a project activity
(e.g., frrigation); and (d) convenios between the SCUT or an executing
agency and Involved municipalities or groups prior to the construction of
civil works or initiation of a community sub-project. During negotiations,
the Federal and State Governments and SUDENE provided assurances that they
would enter Into all necessary convenios not later than six months after
loan signing. These convenios would outline the respective obligations and
responsibilities of each party, Including where applicable, execution
guidelines and targets, reporting requirements, procedures for Inter-agency
collaboration and funding conditions linked to performance criteria
(paras. 2.34 and 2.35; Annex 7).



- 27 -
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.09      New regional monitoring and evaluation proposals have been
prepared and reviewed by the Bank for the Northeast Rural Development
Program. The monitoring proposal is based on the need to simplify
reporting requirements at all levels and to provide accurate and timely
information for project management and annual planning. Under the new
system, the SCU would receive monthly reports on key physical and financial
indicators from the executing agencies. These indicators have been
selected for the most part among information already routinely collected by
the executing agencies. SCU regional administrators would also prepare
monthly reports on problems in local implementation.  Quarterly, the SCU
would produce a consolidated monitoring suunary covering both quantitative
aspects and implementation problems and solutions. The summary would be
submitted to the SDR and the Bank. Every six months, the SDR would provide
to the Federal Government and the Bank a monitoring summary for the program
as a whole, including summaries of implementation progress for each state
and its own activities during the period. It is expected that these six-
month summaries would provide the type of information found in Bank
supervision reports. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that quarterly state monitoring reports would be sent to the
Bank no later than three months after the end of the respective fiscal
quarter. SUDENE provided assurances that SDR six-month summaries would be
provided to the Bank no later than December 30 for the April-September
semester and no later than June 30 for the October-March semester
(Annex 8).
4.10      Evaluation studies would be conducted at both the regional and
state levels to provide program and project management with the necessary
information to plan activities and to adjust, when necessary, rural
development policies and strategies. Evaluation would be comprised of the
following activities: (a) on-going evaluation and special studies;
(b) mid-term evaluation; and (c) post-project evaluation. On-going
evaluation at both the state and regional levels would consist of
short-term studies of specific activities and implementation problems, such
as an annual review of community developmenit activities.  At the regional
level, in addition to short studies, larger special studies, no longer than
one year in duration, would also be carried out; terms of reference for
regional marketing and water resource studies have already been reviewed.
At the state level, annual crop surveys to measure production and
productivity levels among a small number of beneficiary and non-beneficiary
farmers would also be part of on-going evaluation. These small surveys
would complement production information to be routinely provided by the
extension service. Terms oF refer±nce for studies at the state level would
be reviewed and a?proved by the SDR.
4.11      Mid-term and post-project evaluation studies would be carried out
for the regional program as a whole and for Sergipe state activities.
These studies would be contracted to independent consulting firms and/or



- 28 -
academic institutions. During negotiations, SUDENE and the State
Government provided assurances that: (a) SUDENE would furnish to the Bank
by June 30 each year a list for the preceding program fiscal year of all
terms of reference approved For state-level short studies and of all short
studies completed and available; (b) terms of reference for on-going and
special studies at the regional level would be satisfactory to the Bank;
and (c) terms of reference for the mid-term and post-project evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 4).
F. Accounts and Auditing
4.12      Each of the participating agencies would maintain a separate
account of its project expenditures, to be audited annually by the
Secretariat of Internal Control with SEPLAN-PR, according to standard
Government practice. &udit procedures have recently been reviewed by the
Bank, and discussions are underway concerning possible improvements.
Copies of the Ludit report would be provided to the Bank within six months
following the close of the project's fiscal year. The audit report would
coitvAey the auditor's opinion on the adequacy of procedures-used for the
preparation and verification of statements of expenditures and their
accuracy, eligibility for financing in accordance wita compliance with
legal agreements, and the standard of record-keeping and internal
controls. The Special Account would be audited by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, the State and Federal
Governments and SUDENE provided assurances on these matters.
V. PRODUCTION, DEMAND, AND MARKETING
A. Production
5.01      At full development (year 11), the annual value of incremental
production generated by the project is estimated at US$2L.1 million (in
June 1984 farm-gate prices), including US$4.6 million for basic food crops
(beans, maize, manioc and rice), US$8.8 million for other crops, and US$7.7
million for livestock products (Annex 9).
5.02      Expected production increases would be achieved through a
combination of greater yields, expanded areas of production, and some
changes in cropping patterns. Yield increases for the major crops, have
been estimated at less than 30% above current yields. Exceptions are rice
and bananas where improved irctgation and drainage would significantly
increase yields. Projected yield increases for other crops would be
brought about maL'ily by improved weed control and plant protection
measures, fertilizer application in irrigated areas, the use of improved
seed varieties, and more timely field operations through the use of animal
traction. The increased use of animal traction would also result in
sizeable increases in the area devoted to basic food crops, grain sorghum,
improved pasture, oranges, and yams. Little or no area changes are
expected for other crops, although there would be some double cropping on
newly irrigated lands. Under the project, nearly 36,000 ha of native bush
or pasture would be converted into improved pastures and cropland.



- 29 -
Plantings of drought-resistant forage crops (leucaena, palma, and algaroba)
would place into productive use an additional 13,000 ha (para. 6.02).
B. Demand and Marketing
5.03      Incremental production resulting from project activities would
not be subject to demand constraints. Expected increases in forage would
mainly serve to feed livestock in the priority areas. Resulting increases
in meat production would be readily absorbed in urban markets within the
state. The same is true for maize and beans, two staple crops for which
Sergipe is currently a net importer. Additionally, maize has a ready
market as feed in the state's expanding poultry industry. Part of the
manioc production, which would increase significantly under the project,
would be consumed locally. Surpluses, mainly in the form of flour, would
be channelled to urban areas, both in the state and in neighboring states.
Currently, there is still a large regionwide deficit in manioc flour. A
growing industrial market for manioc, both in animal feed and energy
production, is also developing. Demand for sorghum is similarly
developing; on-farm use as a fodder crop has expanded in recent years. The
extension service is also promoting certain varieties of sorghum as a
substitute for wheat flour in rural diets. Cotton increases would be
marketed through existing channels for processing both in the state and in
neighboring states. The growing textile industry in Aracaju would probably
absorb a larger share of local production than has been the case in the
past.
5.04      Fruits and vegetables produced under the project would be
channelled to Aracaju and other Northeast urban areas through the CEASAs,
Government-operated fruit and vegetable wholesale markets located in all
capital cities. Oranges and passion fruit would be processed into juices
and juice concentrates for the domestic market and international export.
Since demand constraints periodically affect market opportunities for
passion fruit, only modest production increases have heen projected under
the project.
5.05      While no quantitative demand constraints are expected, improved
product quality and varietal selection would be important in ensuring
market absorption for Incremental production at favor 'le producer prices.
Project investments in research and extension, trainirg in post-har'est
techniques and marketing, improvements in municipal mp-kets, and tene
marketing information and commercial orientation service should strengthen
small farmers' competitive position and in some cases, improve their share
in final demand prices. However, incremental project production is not
expected to have an effect upon the consumer price structure (paras.2.2&
and 2.27).
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Illustrative Farm Models
6.01      The effects of the project on agricultural production and
profitability are illustrated by four rainfed and two irrigated/rainfed
farm models. The indicative models reflect different ecological zones,



-30 -
cropping patterns, livestock activities, and, in the case of the irrigated
models, different investment levels. Characteristics of the farm models
are summarized in Table b.1, and additional details are provided in
Annex 10 and the Supplementary Staff Working Papers (Annex 13).
Tabe 6.1:   Qucaissof Iricajve FaModels
U;S Ju1 19%
NetFaly Fam B.efts c(
Fstchted                                                                 V&th Prect       RR
Mol*   Dstr1utien Sim           Farm                       CIr       W0 Poject  at FPu DEv.  (oer 2D ys.)
Nb.   of Fanis  (ha)  T2qye          Livestock tcaUc                -                           (
I      4,8M    15   Rarifel cc        Sxp   Lno          Sad-arid      82        28,            51
N.S. d Daes
2       410   16.6 al Ingarted/PhLnfeid  dLy   Jabiberi  Semi-arid      - d/     4854           53
3      2,185    5    Raifed crop       -    IaMto        Si-hmdd   2,0f8         3,353          52
4       5)    5    Rainfed am          -    UtDMI Nmte  Sad-hzrdd      852       1,242          56
5      1,0E0    5    RairFd crop       -    ltibiam      Sb-h.dd       686       1,355          71
6       4'    1) b/ TTrifged/PanEed    -    Iagato       S3u-add    3,943        5,546          17
Cairde      53au-aid
Total    9410
a/ Rihlic iridgaion suim, coasistixg ci L6 ha irdgred ad 15 ha i=fted lrd.
_Privat irraitin sdrms, asitrg ci 3.2 ha irdgred ( lha kmaeni) ad 6.8 ba minfei arld.
cJ Bore firmirg a-d eclxlg dff-fa ino    soure.
d/kw faKc no pmxtimnat preset.
6.02       Estimated financial rates of return for the models range from
about 17% to 71%. The relatively high rates of return in some cases are
mainly a reflection of the low level of current incomes and the relatively
low cost and rapid benefits of investment packages and resulting technology
improvements (para. 5.02). The introduction of crops better able to resist
drought (e.g., short-cycle varieties and grain sorghum) would improve yield
reliability and increase income stability. Although cropping patterns are
not expected to change dramatically, farmers, particularly those benefiting
from irrigation, would increase the proportion of higher profit crops, and,



- 31 -
in some cases, introduce new and more profitable cash crops. Introduction
of sheep and dairy production, along with appropriate forage crops, would
occur on the larger rainfed farms (over 15 ha) and on some of the irrigated
farms. Increased labor demand resulting from project activities would
easily be met through family labor. During peak periods, hired labor,
which is readily available, would be employed on some farms, particularly
in irrigated areas.
B. Effects of Drought
6.03      Sergipe as a whole has been less affected by drought than other
Northeast states, since proportionally less of the state's farm area is in
arid or semi-arid zones (Map IBRD 18481). lowever, about one-half of
project farmers reside in semi-arid regions of the state and, therefore,
are vuilnerable to recurring droughts. To estimate the effects of a severe
and prclonged drought on production and profitability at the farm level,
the farm model most representative of farms in the semi-arid areas
(Model 1) was reproduced simulating two separate drought situations. The
first assumed a severe drought during the first three years of project
implementation. The second assumed a similar drought in years 8, 9, and
10. In both cases, yields would decline sharply from those estimated
without the drought: (a) beans, maize, and cotton, would decline to 20X of
the average; (b) manioc would decline to 60% and grain sorghum to 50% of
the average; and (c) livestock production to 70%, with an increased culling
rate of 18% for breeding ewes (second situation only). It was assumed that
annual replanting costs and costs related to implementing project
sheep-raising investments would continue; other costs, particularly harvest
costs, would decline. It was also assumed that project farmers would have
access to limited water resources sufficient to maintain livestock during
the drought period.
6.04      The results of the simulation exercise are summarized in
Table 6.2 below:
Table 6.2: Annual Net Family Farm Benefits 1/ and Financial
Rates of Return as Affected by Severe Drought
Without Drought       During Drought    During Drought
(at full develop.)   in years 1-2-3    in years 8-9-10
Farm                 Benefits       FRR   Benefits   FRR    Benefits    FRR
Category               US$            %       US$       X       USS         Z
Non-Project
Farmers             826          -       (147)     -          (88)      -
Project
Farmers           2,837          -       (579)     -        1,315       -
-            51        -       54         -       60
1/  Before financing and excluding off-farm income sources.



- 32 -
6.05      Table 6.2 shows the impact that project investments, particularly
in small livestock production and forage crops, could have on increasing
farmers' ability to withstand drought conditions in the medium- and
long-term. If the drought were to occur early in project implementation,
both project and non-project farms would suffer. The larger net losses for
project farms in this situation reflect the investments which would be
made in sheep and improved forage crops before the effects of drought were
to become apparent. However, if the drought were to occur later in the
project cycle, project investrients, including the development of the sheep
flock, would permit participating farms to achieve a positive flow of net
benefits.  Livestock assets would, in addition, represent a ready source of
cash income. Although net benefits would be halved in comparison to the
without drought situation, the model's overall financial rate of return
would actually improve, reflecting the greater relative gains made by
farmers participating in the project.
C. Farm Incomes
6.06      The weighted average annual family income of project
beneficiaries at full development is estimated at US$2,700 for rainfed
farmers and US$3,400 for farmers with irrigation (Table 6.1). This
represents an increase of 140% and 89%, respectively, compared to present
income levels. The estimated increases are largely the reflection of
improved farm production and productivity and a diversified enterprise mix,
thereby improving farm revenues and, employment. The difference between
present incomes and projected incomes may be overstated, however, because
current sources of supplemental income, such as off-farm work, have not
been taken into account. Without supplemental income sources, about 75% of
expected beneficiaries are currently well below the relative poverty
level. With the project, it is estimated that this percentage would be
reduced to about 25X of beneficiary families who adopt project technical
recommendations. Despite the significant on-farm income increases that
would occur, the poorest rainfed farm families would remain below the
relative poverty level and would need to supplement their farm incomes,
particularly in drought years.
D. Fiscal Impact
6.07      The project investment cost per benefiting family would average
US$3,000. It is not Government policy to obtain full cost recovery on
rural programs for low-income families. Partial direct cost recovery does
exist, particularly for operation and maintenance costs. User charges and
increased revenues would be expected to cover recurrent costs related to
public irrigation investments, improvements in municipal markets and fairs,
the wholesale food distribution network, increased fingerling production,
community sub-projects, and beginning in 1987, community water supply
systems. In addition, communities would be expected to pay for part of
community sub-project investment costs through contributions in labor or
materials. In accordance with Brazilian legislation, partial recovery
(estimated at about 20-30% of investment costs in real terms) of public
irrigation investments would also occur, but would vary from scheme to
scheme depending on beneficiaries' projected incomes. The Government's



- 33 -
phased reduction of agricultural credit subsidies (para. 2.24) would
increase substantially the amount recovered on credit operations.
6.08      The Government would receive increased fiscal revenues from the
incremental production generated under the project. The value added ICM
tax on some agricultural products would generate an estimated US43.0
million annually at full development. Revenues from the social security
tax (FUNRURAL), levied at 2.5% of the value of marketed production, would
provide a further US$0.5 million annually at full development. By year 9,
increased annual revenues would more than offset incremental annual
recurrent costs resulting from project activities. This would not be the
case, however, should significant credit subsidies continue or if a severe
drought were to occur. Also, the extent to which incremental tax revenues
would actually be used to finance project recurrent costs would depend upon
the type of revenue-sharing arrangements in place between the Federal
Government and the State.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Rate of Return
7.01      The economic rate of return for the project has been estimated at
19%, as discussed below. Details of the cost and benefit streams used in
the economic analysis are given in Annex 11. Other details of the economic
analysis are available in the Supplementary Staff Working Papers
(Annex 13).
7.02      The cost stream for the economic benefits included four elements:
(a) all of the phased on-farm incremental investment and operating costs
derived from the farm models; (b) all Sergipe project costs, except those
related to social forestry, the wholesale food supply system, the fund for
unidentified irrigation studies and sub-projects, the community development
component, and community water supply systems, or 74% of total state
project costs; (c) 10% of regional administration costs and the proportion
of regional research costs corresponding to the proportion of the state's
rural population within the Northeast's total rural population;
(d) recurrent regional and state costs on a declining basis for three years
following the project investment period; and (e) recurrent state costs at
constant year 11 costs for years 12 to 20.
7.03      The evaluation of incremental benefits included three elements.
First, the estimated phased on-farm incremental benefits were included for
those farmers expected to use investment credit. This included 810 farms
with irrigation and 5,850 dryland farmers, or about 35% of total dryland
farmers. Second, as a proxy for the incremental benefits accruing to the
remaining dryland farmers who would be reached by the extension service
(about 10,850 farmers), incremental benefits for an equivalent 2,75U
farmers (about 25% of the remaining dryland farmers) were added to the
benefit stream. Finally, an estimate of benefits resulting from increased
inland fish production was included.



- 34 -
7.04      Economic prices for traded goods were derived taking into account
international trading prices, freight, insurance, processing, and handling
costs. Price trends were projected according to those estimated by the
Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department. The main imported
goods are fertilizer and, in some years, rice; cotton is exported. A
border parity price was also derived for maize, which is brought in from
southern Brazil. Economic prices for beans, bananas, sorghum, manioc, and
oranges were derived by taking into account the domestic marketing
distortions relevant to each of the products, as well as a standard
conversion factor of 0.83. The latter was also used for valuing non-traded
inputs and outputs, including labor (Annex 12).
7.05      To measure the impact of possible changes in the assumptions
underlying the project's stream of costs and benefits, several sensitivity
tests were made. These tests show that project benefits could fall by
about 22% or projects costs rise by about 29% before the project's
estimated rate of return fell below the estimated 11% opportunity cost of
capital.
B. Other Project Benefits
7.06      Not all project benefits are accounted for in the economic rate
of return analysis.  Project research and extension activities should
result in production increases for other farmers within the state. The
expansion of agricultural activities would create new on-farm employment
opportunities equivalent to some 6,7U0 man-years annually at full
development (year 11). This demand, principally for unskilled and
semi-skilled labor, would be met mainly through family labor, although
increases in hired labor in irrigated areas would also occur. Project
extension, water supply, and marketing activities would have a beneficial
health and nutritional impact by improving nutrition education and
increasing the availability of safe drinking supplies and food items
currently lacking in rural diets. Social extension, social forestry,
improved water supply, marketing, and community development activities
would bring substantial benefits to rural women and improve the quality of
life for all rural residents. Finally, strengthened public sector planning
and implementation capabilities would be important for future rural
development efforts.
C. Environmental Impact
7.07      Increased awareness of the need to protect and manage the
environment more carefully is growing among farmers because of recent
drought conditions. Various activities to be promoted by the project could
have a beneficial environmental impact. Safer and more efficient pesticide
use would help to protect the natural environment. Improved water and soil
management could preserve soil fertility, reduce erosion, and optimize use
of existing water resources. Improved animal husbandry techniques and
social forestry activities would reverse the tendency among small farmers
to exhaust their limited natural resource base through over-cultivation and
over-grazing. Nonetheless, the environmnt in the drLest project areas is



- 35 -
relatively fragile and short-term flnancial considerations could induce
some small farmers to ignor project technical recommendations and to
continue over-cultIvation, with the resulting detrimental effect upon the
environment.
D. Project Risks
7.08      Although simpler In design than previous Integrated rural
development projects In Northeast Brazil, the proposed project still
depends on a number of Institutions and the achievement of considerable
Interinstitutional cooperation. Also, a larger role has been attributed to
SUDENE in regional coordination and technical assistance. This new role
for SUDENE requires considerable institution-building.  Consequently,
Institutional analysis was an Important part of project preparation.
Weaknesses were Identified and measures introduced to Improve Institutional
effectiveness, particularly In the areas of water resource development and
regional, state, and local coordination. In addition, all of the agencies
have some experience In working with the target group through Integrated
rural development projects. Improved monitoring, on-going evaluation and
Increased technical assistance should also help decrease management risks.
More Importantly, the project's emphasis on beneficiary participation and
community Involvement would increase both the level of demand on and
accountability of the executing agencies, fostering a more efficient
Institutional environment.
7.09      The proposed project does not Include land tenure, health, and
education activities. All of these activities are essential for sustained,
self-supporting rural development In Serglpe and other areas of the
Northeast. Parallel sectoral projects for health and education are
currently under preparation with Bank assistance; a regional Land Tenure
Improvement Project will be presented to the Executive Directors shortly.
The success of those projects would contribute substantially toward
achieving project objectives of increased Incomes, employment, and
standards of living, particularly In the medium- and long-term, and
planning of all the projects has taken place In a coordinated fashion.
Nonetheless, implementation of most of the activities and expected benefits
under the proposed project are not directly dependent on the pace of
implementation of the sectoral projects In the short-term.
7.10      Recurring drought conditions In the Northeast present
considerable risks to small farmers and to expected benefits under the
proposed project. A sustained, multi-year drought, simdlar to the one in
1978 to 1983, could substantially reduce the project's productive Impact.
Decreasing drought-related risks for small farmers has Influenced overall
project design, particularlv through increasing the focus on water resource
development and small farmer technology generation and diffusion. The
project should help Increase farmers' permanent capacity to adapt to
erratic, and often adverse, climatic conditions.
7.11      Finally, delays and shortfalls In counterpart funding have posed
serious problems for Bank-assisted Northeast rural development projects in
the past. Similar delays and shortfalls under the proposed project could



- 36 -
decrease impact. Considerable attention has been given to this matter-
during project preparation. Recent changes in funding channels and
procedures, the merging of the rural special programs and the addition of a
new source of counterpart funding (FINSOCIAL funds) are expected to improve
the funding situation. The focus on a few key production constraints would
concentrate funds on activities which provide direct benefits. In
addition, the regional scope of the Northeast Rural Development Program, of
which the project is a part, and the broad support which the program enjoys
among senior government officials and local leaders, should help to secure
adequate funding. Overall, the risks associated with this project are
acceptable in view of the expected benefits to low-income farm families and
the important institutional-building aspects of the project.
VII. SUMMARY OF ASSURANCES PROVIDED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that:
(a) for rural credit, the eligibility criteria, terms and conditions,
reporting provisions, and credit priorities would be applied as
outlined in paras. 2.23 and 2.25;
(b) at least 8,670 ha by March 31, 1986 and an additional 38,000 ha
by March 31, 1988, would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries in the p-iority areas (para. 2.32);
(c) procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.04 and
3.05;
Cd) (i) the annual regional operating plan, with summaries of each
state operating plan, would be sent to the Bank for comment prior
to its formal approval; (ii) the portaria and the final regional
and Sergipe operating plans would be sent to the Bank by April 1
of each year; (iii) proposed changes in the planning and
budgeting process would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment prior to enactment; and (iv) satisfactory funding
procedures would be established, with any proposed changes
approved by the Bank prior to adoption (paras. 4.06-4.07); and
(e) all necessary convenios would be entered into no later than six
months after loan signature (para. 4.08); and project accounts
and the Special Account would be maintained and annually audited
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.12).
8.02      During negotiations, SUDENE provided assurances that:
(a) the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment for key staff of the SUDENE SDR would be satisfactory
to the Bank; and the SDR would be maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, with first-year evaluation results sent
to the Bank by June 1, 1986 (para. 2.35);



- 37 -
(b) procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.04 and
3.05;
(c) SUDENE would enter into all necessary convenios no later than six
months after loan signature, such convenios to contain the
provisions described in para. 4.08;
(d) SDR six-month monitoring summaries would be sent to the Bank no
later than December 30 and June 30 of each year (para. 4.09);
(e) a list of all terms of reference approved for state-level short
studies and of all such studies completed and available would be
sent to the Bank by June 30 of each year; terms of reference for
regional studies would be sent to the Bank for review and
approval; and terms of reference for mid-term and post-project
evaluations would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.11); and
(f) project accounts would be maintained and annually audited
according to practices satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.12).
8.03      During negotiations, the State Government provided assurances
that:
(a) for public irrigation schemes, (i) major dams would be subject to
periodic review by a panel of experts, and, for the Jacarecica
dam, the same panels would review final designs and inspect
periodically during construction; and (ii) satisfactory cost
recovery provisions, in accordance with federal legislation,
would be implemented (para 2.13);
Cb) COHIDRO would apply water charges covering full operation and
maintenance costs by Juae 30, 1987 (para. 2.15);
(c) prior to initiation of market improvements, a written agreement
would be signed between the SCU and the municipality; and
detailed plans would be sent to SUDENE for approval, with a copy
of the written approval sent to the Bank (para. 2.27);
(d) the community development fund would be established and
maintained under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
and no funds would be released prior to a written agreement
between the SCU and the group or municipality (para. 2.30);
(e) the SCU would be staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.31);
(f) at least 8,670 ha by March 31, 1986 and an additional 38,000 ha
by March 31, 1988, would be available for redistribution to
project beneficiaries in the priority areas (para. 2.32);
(g) procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 3.04 and
3.05;



- 38 -
(h) the State Government and Executing Agencies would enter into all
necessary convenios within six months of loan signature, such
convenios to contain the provisions described In para. 4.08;
(i) quarterly state monitoring reports would be sent to the Bank no
later than three months after the respective fiscal quarter
(para. 4.09);
(j)  terms of reference for mid-term and post-project evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.11); and
(k) project accounts would be maintained and annually audited
according to practices satisfactory to thle Bank (para. 4.12).
8.04      Conditions of loan effectlveness would be: (a) receipt of
evidence by the Bank that planning, budgeting, staffing, and administration
of all current regional rural special programs had he.en tnified, and
consolidated within the SDR at the regional level and within the SCU at the
state level, including evidence that the quantity of staff within the SDR
had been reduced to agreed upon levels (para. 4.05); and (b) receipt by the
Bank of the signed portaria legally establishing program ¶unding procedures
(para. 4.05);
8.05      Conditions of disbursement would be: (a) for water resource
activities, the carrying out of satisfactory measures for COHIDRO's
strengthening (para. 2.13); and (b) for Irrigation sub-projects, prior to
Initiating construction, receipt of proof of latnd acquisition, and approval
of feasibility studies, resettlement plans, operation and maintenance
plans, and complete final designs (para. 2.13).
8.06      Failure to present satisfactory Irrigation sub-projects by
December 31, 1987 following loan signing would result in cancellation of
the loan funds allocated for this purpose (para. 2.13).
8.07      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$61.3 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, Including a 3-year grace period.
March 12, 1985



- 39 -                                             ANNK1
BREIL
NRT ERUAL 11LmEff HXAM
tNOBlEAST RLRAL 1EVELPWNr I PfJECr
Evolutim of Sergipe Agricultural Production
Major Crops
Average Area (ha)        Yields (f/ha)            Production (t)       Increneital   Z
Crop                    1969-71    1981-83       1969-71   1981-83      199-71      1981f-13
Beanr                    39,655     47,677          331        329       13,49U      181,2u        4,718      35
Maize                   45,960      50,263          573        556       28,140      32,337       4,197       15
Cassava                 43,970      36,138       16,670     13,632      726,190    't4,75U      (231,440)    (32)
Cotton                  29,182      14,182          260        176        7,650       2,118      (5,532)    (72)
Rice                     7,43)       8,793        2,030      2,43)       15,110      21,340       6,230       41
Sugarca                 24,943      23,452           32         50      803,570   1,180,060     376,490       47
TobacO                   3,963       6,433          857      1,058        3,450       b,b50        3,Z0       93
Orarges (fnrits)         5,393      24,306       58,62)    98,62D       312,530a/ 2,384,110a/ 2,071,580a/   6b3
Coccmuts (nuts)         22,574      32,8U5        4,150      1,910       92,27dS'   61,330b/   (3U,940)b/  (34)
Beans
Maize  )   76b,820     545,295    (221,525)    (29)
Cassava)
Note:   Year¢ 197U, 1981 and 1983 were droght years, rLth greatly reiuced produt±ion of cotton, maize, and beans.
1982 iw  a very good year witth atstardirg yields arri production of the saie crops.
a/  '000 fruits
I 'UOO mts
SaP:  3JE21E, Regional Program Preparation Report, Vol. 2; Junie 1984.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Project Priority Areas and Municipalities
Lagarto                             Itabaiana
1.  Lagarto                         1.  Itabaiana
2.  Salgado                         2. Macambira
3.  Boquim                          3.  Sao Domingos
4.  Pedrinhas                       4.  Campo do Brito
5.  Araua                           5.  Areia Blanca
6.  Itabaianinha                    6.  Malhador
7.  Riachao do Dantes               7.  Muita Bonita
8. Tobias Barreto
9. Poco Verde
10. Simao Dias
Litoral Norte                       Nossa Senhora das Dores
1.  Neopolis                        1.  Nossa Senhora das Dores
2.  Japoata                         2.  Cumbe
3.  Japaratuba                      3.  Aquidaba
4.  Pirambu                         4.  Gracho Cardoso
5.  Pacatuba                        5.  Feira Nora
6.  Ilha das Flores                 6.  Sao Migual do Aleixo
7.  Brejo Grande                    7.  Nossa Senhora Aparecida
8. Carira
9. Pinhao
10. Pedra Mole
Caninde do Sao Francisco           11.  Frei Paulo
12. Ribeiropolis
1. Caninde do Sao Francisco
2.  Poco Redondo                        Regional Administration Offices
3. Porto da Folha
4.  Monte Alegre de Sergipe         1.  Lagarto (Lagarto priority area)
5.  Nossa Senhora da Gloria         2.  Aracaju (Litoral Norte priority
6.  Gararu                              area)
3. Nossa Senhora da Gloria (Caninde and
part of Nossa Senhora das Dores
priority areas)
4. Itabaiana (Itabaiana and part of
Nossa Senhora das Dores priority
areas)



_41 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Support to Small Rural Communities
A. Background
1.        Rural development experience in Northeast Brazil over the last
ten years has pointed to various difficulties which have slowed project
implementation. A lack of beneficiary involvement and commitment to
project activities, and a failure to tailor project investments,
particularly infrastructure sub-projects, to specific need- and demands of
intended beneficiaries, have been among the difficulties. In some cases,
this has resulted in investments which do not meet development needs
because of a mismatch in such aspects as location, size, or operating
procedures. Also, satisfactory operation and maintenance of investments
have been continuing problems. Although active beneficiary participation
is a frequently mentioned strategy in Bank-financed Northeast rural
development projects, few concrete measures have been adopted to ensure
local participation in either project planning or implementation.
2.        Although not a part of previous rural development projects
supported by the Bank, community organization and community development
(CD) activities which foster local involvement are not entirely new in
Northeast Brazil. Localized programs, related to childcare, health,
nutrition, adult literacv, non-farm small enterprises, and agricultural
development have been implemented by state and non-governmental
organizations. At the federal level, a CD unit within the Ministry of
Interior has, for several years, carried out training of local leaders in
farmers' associations, cooperatives and syndicates. Some Northeast states,
including Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Norte, have sponsored a variety of
community development programs, particularly in low-income, urban areas.
B. Objectives, Strategy and Brief Description
3.        The broad objectives of community support activities would be to
increase t-e level and scope of economic activity in rural areas and create
new employment and income opportunities for rural residents. The strategy
would involve working exclusively with groups of beneficiaries, thereby
encouraging small farmers to pool their resources and organize and maintain
groups. The proposed community support component would provide:
(a) concrete procedures for involvement of beneficiaries, organized in
groups, in thp Relection, planning, and implementation of local
sub-projects; and (b) a community development fund to finance local
sub-projects on the basis of specific proposals generated by the
beneficiaries themselves. The project would also finance training,
vehicles, equipment and salaries for community development staff. Initial
contributions and a commitment to operate and maintain investments by
beneficiaries are integral features of the component.



- 42 -                       ANNEX_3
Page 2
C. Implementation Procedures and Criteria
4.        Beneficiary Definition.  Eligible beneficiaries would be
registered and non-registered farmers' groups, associations, cooperatives
or syndicates, whose members reside in project priority areas (Annex 2) and
who meet the definition for project beneficiaries (main text, para. 2.08).
Local community development agents (para. 10) would identify and verify the
eligibility of interested groups.
5.        Type of Sub-Projects to be Financed.  The CD fund would be used
to finance three categories of sub-projects:
(a) Training and Legal Assistance (up to 15% of the CD fund),
including: training for group leaders and members in such topics
as organization and leadership, orientation for community
development through group action, and pertinent legal issues;
training for group secretaries and treasurers in simple
accounting, record-keeping, and payment procedures; training for
group members in the operation and maintenance of equipment and
infrastructure financed by the fund; and legal assistance for
land matters related to the implementation of the Northeast Rural
Development Program.
(b)  Economic Sub-Projects (not less than 60% of the CD fund),
including cottage industries and small village enterprises such
as confectionary, tailoring, and handicraft ventures; processing
equipment, such as flour mills, hulling machines, and
decorticators; tree nurseries and fishponds; small animal
improvement schemes and group agricultural equipment.
Cc) Infrastructure Sub-Projects (up to 25% of the CD fund), including
small civil works such as storage facilities for seeds,
fertilizer, and agricultural production; commtmal laundry
facilities; and small rural tracks.
6.        Guidelines for Selection of Sub-Projects.  The following
guidelines have been established to determine eligibility for financing of
sub-projects:
(a) The sub-project must be self-sustaining and benefit the whole
group;
(b) The group and the sub-project should be such that the group or
association could be solely responsible for sub-project
management and implementation, with only limited technical
assistance, if necessary;
(c) The sub-project falls into one of the categories described in
para. 5; and



-43 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 3
(d)  A written proposal, including objectives; justification; detailed
budget; benefits expected; method of implementation; operating
and maintenance procedures; and type and level of group
contributions, either in cash or kind, must be approved by a
community or municipal council for each sub-project.
7.        The following types of sub-projects or expenditures would not be
eligible for financing under the CD fund:
(a) operation and maintenance costs of sub-projects;
(b) investments which could be financed by other project components
or government programs (e.g., schools, health posts, rural
electrification, roads); and
(c) sub-projects which are mainly aimed at consumption, with no
direct or indirect economic benefit (e.g., religious festivals).
8.        Funding limits per year for each priority area have been
estahlished.  However, no pre-determined list of sub-projects or maximum
limit per sub-project has been established. This approach was chosen to
avoid repetition of previous experiences where sub-projects or community
needs were de facto determined by government planners. Maximum limits per
sub-project were not set since maximum limits, once known, have a tendency
to become minimum limits and could lead to over-sophistication of
sub-projects. It is expected, however, that most sub-projects would be
small because of expected demands on the CD fund and the desire of
Community/Municipal Councils to maximize coverage, and the requirement that
sub-projects meet the criteria listed in para. 6. As a safeguard, careful
monitoring, especially during the first years, would be carried out to
detect any emerging problems, and new guidelines would be formulated, if
necessary (para. 13).
9.        Staffing   The success of proposed community support activities
would depend largely upon an efficient organization with suitably trained
and equipped staff able to encourage beneficiaries to organize and take
full advantage of the CD fund to finance sub-projects for the benefit of
the whole community. To achieve these objectives, the project would
finance the recruitment and training of CD agents at the regional and local
levels. Annual recruitment targets have been geared to the expected rate
at which suitable staff could be recruited and trained. The project would
also provide senior advisers who would be responsible for training
technical assistance, and supervision of regional and local staff.!/
I/   Quantitative staffing details are found in the Supplementary Staff
Working Papers (Annex 13).



- 44 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       CD staff would carry out the following functions:
(a) At the local level - The local CD agent, working with communities
in two to three municipalities, would: encourage the formation of
farmers' groups and other community associations; identify
existing elegible groups, associations, syndicates, and
cooperatives; orient groups and stimulate discussions on the
activities financed by the project and the component; assist
groups in the identification of local investment opportunities
antd in the formulation of proposals for financing; participate in
CoW.aunity/Municipal Council meetings (para. 11); check
sub-project implementation progress; and assist in monitoring and
on-going evaluation activities.
(b) At the regional level - The regional CD agent would: coordinate
and supervise the work of four to six local CD agents; hold
biweekly meetings to discuss progress and problems which arise
during implementation; participate in Municipal Council meetings
(para. 11); liaise with regional staff from other executing
agencies and the project regional administration; produce monthly
progress reports; and assist in monitoring and on-going
evaluation activities.
(c) At the state level - The senior CD advisers would: carry out pre-
and in-service training for CD agents; provide orientation-
training on beneficiary participation and the community support
component for all project field staff; check approved
sub-projects for conformity with guidelines and establish
priorities, if needed (para. 11); produce quarterly monitoring
reports, including a summary of activities undertaken apd
achievements per region and a qualitative assessment of
implementation progress, targets achieved, and problems
encountered; carry out on-going evaluation of farmers' acceptance
of CD activities; and assist in carrying out mid-term and final
evaluations of the component.
11.       Administration and Implementation of the CD Fund.  The selection
and planning of potential sub-projects would be carried out by farmers'
groups, associations, syndicates and cooperatives. The CD agent would
advise eligible groups on technical and administrative matters, including
proposal format. If necessary, the CD agent would call on appropriate
field staff from other agencies to advise groups on technical aspects of
sub-projects. Sub-project proposals would be submitted to community or
municipal councils (MC) for discussion, analysis, approval and assignment
of priority. Each MC would consist of two elected representatives from
each community within the municipality 2/ and the Prefect, Secretary, and
2/   On average, there are four to eight communities within a municipality.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
Treasurer of the municipality.- The local and regional CD agents and the
regional project administrator would also participate in MC meetings. The
meetings would take place on a monthly basis, but could be less frequent if
no proposals were submitted during the preceding nonth. Approval of
sub-projects would be carried out by simple majority vote. Once
sub-projects were approved, they would be forwarded to the senior CD
advisers in the SCU. The advisers would only reverse MC recommendatLons if
sub-projects did not conform to the guidelines. If regional annual funding
limits had been reached, funding of the sub-projects would be postponed
until the next fiscal year.
12.       For approved sub-projects, the CD advisers and the SCU lawyer
would prepare a written agreement (convenio) to be signed by the
association or group. The convenio would contain a detailed and explicit
description of the sub-project, implementation procedures, contributions by
beneficiaries, obligations of the recipient group, default provisions, and
a schedule of payments to the group. Payments would be made in
installments, with implementation progress and expenditures monitored by
the local and regional CD agents. In the case of legally registered
entities, payment would be made directly to a designated bank account in
the entity's name. In the case of unregistered groups, the convenio would
be signed by the municipality on behalf of the group, with funds channelled
through the municipality. The SCU would be responsible for all
record-keeping of CD Fund expenditures. Procedures for submission of
reimbursement requests and auditing of accounts would be those established
for the project as a whole.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.        Adequate and timely monitoring and evaluation would be essential
to ensure the component's success by providing information for early
detection of problems and the formulation of solutions. Regional and
state-level CD and project administration staff would be primarily
responsible for monitoring physical and financial progress. The regional
CD agent would produce a monthly suimwary report on progress achieved,
problems encountered, and action taken or recommended. lie would also carry
out on-going evaluation, mainly through periodic short simple surveys, to
measure project inputs and the impact of the various sub-projects on the
local population. On a quarterly basis, state-level staff would carry out
more detailed analyses of project performance and any systematic problems
and recommend actions to be taken by the SCU coordinator. The SCU would
produce an annual evaluation of the previous year's activities. The
component would also be included in the monitoring and evaluation
activities to be undertaken for the pro ect as a whole (main text, paras.
4.09-4.11).



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
E. Risks
14.       Proposed community support activities represent an ambitious and
innovative undertaking. However, community development activities have
some historical precedents, and the policies, objectives, and procedures
have been planned and discussed by specialists and responsible officials at
the federal, regional, and state levels over an 18-month period. In
addition, beneficiaries and local officials were consuilted early on in the
planning process and influenced component design. A high degree of
commnitment at all levels to the component is evident. An emphasis on
training and monitoring and evaluation should help the initiation of
activities and allow for early detection of weaknesses and the taking of
corrective actions, if necessary. Although the risks are considerable, the
potential benefits and contribution to self-sustained rural development at
the local level make those risks worthwhile.



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Criteria for Compliance with Selected Key Loan Conditions
I.   "... the SCU would be staffed and maintained under conditions
satisfactory to the Bank." (para. 2.31).
- the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment for the 'iCU coordinator,-deputy coordinator, unit
chiefs, and regional administrators would be satisfactory to the
Bank.
- the structure and size of the SCU would be maintained as
described in para. 2.31, unless previously agreed upon with the
Bank.
- the SCU's terms of reference would contain those tasks described
in para. 4.04, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
- any legal instruments required to implement and maintain the
above criteria would be promptly executed, with copies forwarded
to the Bank.
II. ",., the SDR would be maintained under conditions satisfactory to the
Bank." (para. 2.35).
- the SDR would establish and maintain its own operating budget and
personnel and administrative procedures, and a competitive salary
structure.
- the structure and size of the SDR would be established and
maintained as described in para. 2.34, unless previously agreed
upon with the BanX.
- the SDR's terms of reference would contain those tasks describd
in para. 2.34, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
- SDR logistical and physical space arrangements would be adequate
to carry out the tasks described in para. 2.34.
- any legal instruments required to implement and maintain the
above criteria would be promptly executed, with copies forwarded
to the Bank.
III. ",,, terms of reference for mid-term and post-project evaluations
would be satisfactory to the Bank." (para. 4.11).



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
A permanent, independent, highly experienced evaluation agency
would be contracted by SUDENE for regional studies and the SCU
for state-level studies, to conduct mid-ternm and post-project
evaluation studies.
In the case of the regional studies, SUDENE would develop terms
of reference and make a selection from among at least three
qualified proposals no later than eighteen months prior to the
date established as the mid-point of the project implementation
period.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Annual Cost Phasing  of Project Activities
(US$ '000)
Basi CoSts                                            Total
19q4/198M  198S/1996 1986/1987 1987/1988 1988/19O 1/19  01990/1991I991/1992 1992/1993    US $
::fl:::Zua.  8uuuaaXZ.  uaxsa:.:: 2:.zu: *:::a:-:: aZuu:=z:      S:-:a:z3 ::u3-':: ::::*   -:-"
A. SEROIPE STATE PRRM
1. WATER RESOURCES DEVELOIENT
DWESTIC MATER  UPPfLIES                          558     1.580      1.007         -          -         -          -         -          -     3,146
IRRIGAION                                       280       905      2.136     11746        682       241         32        32         32     64065
Sub-Total MATER RESOURCES DEVELOPW                  838     2,485      3.143     1746         682        241        32        32         32     9.231
2. AORICLLTURPA  RESEAMRH                           234        644       930     1046       19024       694        434       434        434     5.874
3, RMRML EXIENSION                                  826     1,967      20754     3.049      20478     1.801      1,285     1.289    128M    16,631
4. RURAL INUESTMENT CREDIT   -                        -        748  - 1,846      3P276      2,m       2.482      1,861     1.241        620    15.099
5. NARXE716                                         44        664       601        146       431       228        203       104        4'S    2,465
6. SUPPORT TO SHALL COCtYtNITIES                    346     1,070      1,660     1.59       1P486     1.130        845       503        343     8.902
7. PROJECT APDINI8TRAIION                           439     1,040        961       948        761       574        425       415        456    6W019
Sub-Total SER6IPE STATE PRDORMI                      2,727     81518    11,918    11,809       9.855      7,149     5.084      4,014     3t215    64.290
3. REOIONAL PROGRAM
1. REGIONAL PROGRAM COORDINATION                  2,027     5.933      4,219     3.550      2.481     1P680      1.153    1153       1.557    23,752
2. REGIONAL RESEARCH COORDINATION                   856     2,191      2,030     1.972      1.336     1.006        655       655        655    11.254
Sub-Total REGIONAL PRG6RAN                           2.883     8,123      6.249     5.421      3.816     2.685      1t8O8      l,808     2,211    35,006
Total BASELINE COSTS                                   5.610    16P641    18,167    174231    13.671       9,835      6,893     5.822      5,427    99,296
Physical Contineniets                                 114        441       425        260       129         43        32         22        17     1t484
Price Continftncies                                     -      1.039     24811      4,456     5,029      4,570     3.811     3.761      4,040    29.16
- _ _            _        _ .    .........- .._.._............. ......... ......... .._ ----- -. 
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    5.723    189122    21.402    214947    18.829    14,448    10.736         9,605     9.483   130,296
=:=-s:s:: :::z::::zz u.:zainu:   s::uusa: vm.=== ==a:: ::. a:::n       : mauaZZ:a:: X u ::aazs  zz:: =
Foreign Exchanme                                      774     3,672      3,694     3.201      2.409     1,679      1,320     1.008        936    18,692
--              -      -     -     -      -     -    -      ---                      -    -        -   - --  



- 50 -                      ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVETI)PHENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements 1/
(US$ million)
Calendar Year      Quarter    Disbursed During         Cumulative         Balance
Ending           Quarter        Amounit Disbursed    of Loan
1985           June  30            0                    0              61.3
Sept. 30           3.3                  3.3             58.0
Dec.  31           1.0                  4.3             57.0
1986          March 31            1.0                  5.3             56.0
June  30           1.0                  6.3             55.0
Sept. 30           1.1                  7.4             53.9
Dec.  31           1.3                  8.7             52.6
1987           March 31            1.5                10.2             51.1
June  30           1.6                 11.8             49.5
Sept. 30           2.0                 13.8             47.5
Dec.  31           2.2                 16.0             45.3
1988          March 31            2.7                 18.7             42.6
June  30           2.5                 21.2             40.1
Sept. 30           2.5                 23.7             37.6
Dec.  31           2.7                 26.4             34.9
1989          March 31            2.7                 29.1             32.2
June  30           2.5                 31.6             29.7
Sept. 30           2.5                 34.1             27.2
Dec.  31           2.7                 36.8             24.5
1990          March 31            2.7                 39.5             21.8
June  30           2.5                 42.0             19.3
Sept. 30           2.5                 44.5             16.8
Dec.  31           2.7                 47.2             14.1
1991          March 31            2.4                 49.6             11.7
June  30           2.1                 51.7              9.6
Sept. 30           2.1                 53.8              7.5
Dec.  31           2.1                 55.9               5.4
1992          March 31            1.6                 57.5              3.8
June  30           1.1                 58.6              2.7
Sept. 30           1.1                 59.7              1.6
Dec.  31           0.7                 60.4              0.9
1993          March 31            0.5                 63.9              0.4
June  30           0.4                 61.3               0
/   Including Special Account Deposit.



- 51 -
ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECr
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Main
Executing
Project Activity                      Agency             Main Collaborating Agencies
Water Resource Development
- State public irrigation           (ODklDRO            C(DJEVASF, SUI&NE, private
consultants
- Increased fingerling production   SUDEPE               WUDEVASF, SUDENE
- Feasibility studies               SEPLAN-SE           SUDENE, private consultants
- Rural community water supply      COHIDRU             Private contractors,
municipalities, communities,
SUDENE, private consultants
Agricultural Research
- Studies, trials, observation      UEPAE-SE            SUD&P, EMATER-SE, CPAESA,
units                                                  EMBRAPA
- Basic seed production             UEPAE-SE            CDDEVASF, SUDAP, EMATER-SE
- Initial breeding stock            UEPAE-SE            E2MATER-SE
Rural Extension                      EMATER-SE           aMBRASER, UEPAE-SE, CPATSA
Rural investment Credit              BB, BANESE, BNB    ]1MAThR-SE
Marketing
- Training courses                  COBAL               EMATER-SE, SCU
- Marketing information and         (EASA-SE            EMATER-SE, Secretariat of
commercial orientation service                        Agriculture
- Improvements in municipal         Municipalities      WOBAL
markets and fairs
- Expansion of the Rede Somar       ODBAL                SUDENE
Support to Small Rural Communities
- Community activities              Community Groups    SCU, EMATER-SE, municipalities
- Training and technical assistance SCU                 EMATER-SE
State Project Administration         SCU                 SUDENE, private consultants,
all project executing agencies
Regional Program Coordination        SUDENE (SDR)        EMBRAPA, EMBRAtER, COBAL,
DNOCS, CODEVASF, INCRA, SCUs,
Ministries
Regional Research and Research       CPATSA              EMBRAPA, EMBRATER, state research
Coordination                                             agencies



52 -                                         ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BRAZI L
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PRDGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Key IndlcatOrs for Monitoring
Principal Objectives                         Monitorling indicators                        Composite Monitoring indicators
1   Water Resource Develooment
A. Public and Privat irrigatlon
-  Increase Productive Use of        -  No. of completed feasibility studles             - Cram yields per ha and per crop In
Water Resources                   -  No. of tInal deslgns camp-letd                      Irrigated areas
-  Decrease Drought Risk to          -  No. of schemes - Initiated                       -  Estimated cost recovery Index
Suall Farmers                                       - partially completed             -  Average net financial return per ha
- fully functioning              - Average total Investmnt cost per ha
-  No. of Irrigated ha per schemn
- No. of beneficiaries per Schem
No. ot water user assoCiations formed
- No. of ha of private Irrigation 11
- No. of beneticlarles of private
Irrigation 1/
8. Community Water Suoply
-  Increase availability of          -  No. of community water-supply systems:           -  No. of families benetitted
goo  quality drinking water          -  initlated                                    -  Average cost/system
-  Reduc  Incidence of                  - completed                                      -  Average cost/beneficlary
water-born disease                   -  functIoning
- No. of systems maintained by:
- community
- municipality
- state government
- No. of operators trained
C. Family water Supply
-  N10. of small reservoirs and ponds built 1/     - Averaq- cost/cistern
-  Ensure minimum water              -  No. of cisterns bult I/                          -  Average cost/reservoir
avaIlabil Ity for human and                                                           - Average size farm with pond
animal consumptlon
0. Fingerling Production
-  Provide complpmentary Income      -  Annual production of fingerlings                -  Percentage ot total number ot public water
sourcs                            -  No. of public water bodles stocked                  bodies stocked
-  Incroase availablilty of          -  No. of private ponds stocked                    -  Percentaqe of total nuter ot private ponds
high-protein food                                                                        stocked
2. Agr i cu l ture l Research and Seed
Production
- Adapt varieties and                -  No. of natural resource studles                 -  Observation Units: average Investment
cultivation practices to          -  No. of experimental rrials                          cost per ha
physlcal and firancial            - No. of observation units                         -  Observation Units: avereg  n-t financial
conditions of sa ll farmers       -  No. of professional staff                           return per ha
-  Investigate potentlal new         - Basic seed production:  area harvested and
crops, varieties, and                amount per crop
Integrated tarm systems          -  No. of goats and shee  provided to farmers
- Provide Improved planting
materials end livestock
1/ Financed under the project rural Investment credit coMnonent.
2/ Only quanti tlabla Indlcators Included; quality assessment would be part of on-going evaluation.



- 53   -                                ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
Principal Objctives                          Monitorin  Indiceators                        Composite Monitoring Indicators
3. Rural Extension
A.  AgrIcultural Extension
-  Introduce improved farm           -  No. of local extension ottices                   -  Average yields per crop per ha:
management and cultivatilon       - No. of farm level agricultural                       -  beneticaries
practices                            extenslonists                                       - non-beneficlarls
-  Establish farmer groups to        -  No. ot regional office extension                    -  irrigated
facilitate technology                professionals                                      - non-irrigated
transter                          -  No. of state office extension                   -  Average area expansion par farm
-  Increase efficilncy of               professionals                                    -  Total Incremntal ares per crop
extension service                 -  No. of farmer grouPs                                S extension beneficlaries using:
-  Assist farmers lo obtain          -  No. of farmers assisted                             -  improved seeds
credit for Investments and        -  No. of demonstration units                          - animel traction
modern Inputs                     -  No. of tre in i ng courses for extenslon            - frew Pract ices
staff                                              - new Inputs (excluding saeds)
-  Extension cost/tarmar
-  Demonstration plots:  average cost and
financial return per ha
-  S ot extension beneficiarles with goats
or sbheps
B.  Social Extension
-  Promote Improved nutrition        -  No. of local social extansionists
and child cera                    -  No. of sociil extension groups
-  promote supPlemntary I ncome      -  No. of orchards and vegetable gardens
activities                        -  No. ot home or group Industries
C. Social Fc-estry
-  Increese supplies ot              -  No. of smeal  nurserles established
fuciwood, fruit, fodder, and      -  No. of seedlings by species distributed to
small Industrial wood                tarmers
-  Generate additional Income        -  Total no. of participating far_mrs
and employment opportunities      -  Total no. of hectares planted
4. Rural Credit
-  Finance Inputs and                Investment Credit:
investments to Increase           -  No. of applications                             - No. and type of loan per farm size
small farmr production and        -  No. of loans                                     -  Average no. of days bewe en loan
productivity lewls                -  Value of loans                                      applicatlon and disbursement
-  No. of loans to new clients                     -  MD. and total volume of Investment and
-  No. of loans for Irrigation                         seasonal lonns Per bonk
S*esonni Credit: 1/
-  No. of applications
- No. of loans
- Value of loans
- No. of loans to now clients
5, Merkwtinp
A. Training and MarketIng                - No. and type of training courses:
Information                             -  extansion agents                              -  Average producer prices for prIncicel
-  farmers                                         crops
-  Increase sall farmers'               -  marketing agents                              -  S of fermrs s sellng erop:
marting knowledge and                -  project staff                                    - et local municipal market
Improve their competitive        -  No. of beneficiaries par course                      -  at wholesaol markets
position                          -  No. of tarmers receiving regular marketing          - on-farm to private trader
information and commrclal orientation              - on-farm to governmnt agency
(excluding radio broadcasts)                       -  on-farm to private trader
1/ Not financed under the loan.



- 54                                  ANNEX S
Page 3 of 3
Prlncipal Objert1vas                        NonStorlng Indicators                             Comosite imitorino Indicators
9.  Iprovaments of Rural Markets          -  No. of Studlas In Progress or cepietad           - Avraa cot par lmproved whrat
-  No. of rurol aerkats isprovd through
-  ImproVe aeating                       -  purcthase ot aqulipent
Infrastructura                       -  physIcal rap*Ir/conmstruction
-  raorganizatio/leoaratlongt ieDrOv_nftS
C. ExtansIon ot Rade Soer
Mholstale Systm                      -  No. at Rural Saruice Cantars constructd/          -  Average local consumer pricO  ditterantlal
remodeled                                           for baslc tod IteMs batween Rais Sanr
-  Increase evellabIlitl of          -  No. ot Aural Service Centers tunctlaoing             affillated and non-tfillated rertalers
bas IC toad Ite at                -  No. ofa at Sllated rertalers per service
reasonable prices                    certer
6.  Comiunity Supprt                      -  No. of locel community development -orkers       -  Averae  S ot group contributlon to total
-  No. of municipalStles raChed                        sub-Wroj-et COST
-  Encourage organration ot          -  No. of proposals presented to e    Icipal         -  S of sub-projectS Considered successful
groups and benef iciary              councilS                                             two years at tre Cacp let Ion
particlIDtloD i                   -  No.  t Projects approved:                        -  Participating groups;
-  Provide needed                       -  Total                                             -  S rogistered
Infrastructure and                   -  Infrastructure                                   -  S non-reglsterd
additional eplovyent                 -  Economic                                      -  Average cost per sub-project:
coportunitles at tne                 - Training                                           -  Total
community level                   -  No. ot couplstad Projects                            -  Infrastructure
-  No. of Caenity dvwlooment st0aff trained            -  Economic
-  No. of Otbhr project statf  trained                 -  Training
-  to. of tul I tim prnmen nt jobs crated
-  Aount of temorary employment generated
7.  State?  Adinistratlon
-  Plan, coordinate, monitor         -  No. of higher ltel Statt                          - Averap no. of days In field par month
and evaluate State rural          -  No. oa  higher level fInancial staff                 - central mnit staft
de-loomefl t activitels           -  No. ot higher level Monitoring staft                 -  regional administrators
-  No. of relonal tfila administrators              - Average no. of a ys delay In submitting
-  No. of SRCC Mtings in lest twelve months            .onthiPI reimbursemnt reQuests to Central
-  No. of STC Meetings in last twelve inths            Bonk
-  No. at ihter-auniiipei Councils                  -  No. of auerteriy reports in  a-st 12 months
funct Ion Inl                                       comp leta:
-  No. of short on-going evaluation studles            -  on time
c'I-plets                                           - one mntn delay
-  greer than one month delay
a.  Regional Program Adeinlstratlon
-  Plan and cooroinste regional      - Total No. of higher level staft                    - Consolidetlon an  comparison of
rural devlopment activities       -  No. of higher level staff in:                        state-level monitoring Indicators
-  Provlde assistane   to states        -  Oeprtment of Planninq and Coordination
and mnStar and evaluate              -  Matr Resources
s?ate rural development              - Marketing
activities                           -  Rural Estendson end Credit
- Research
- Land
- tt. of International consultants
-  No. ot training courses tor SOR statf
-  "D. of SpeCIal sties Sn progress
completed
-  No. of supervislon vlslts per state during
last twele monaths
9g   Rlegonal Research and Research
Coordinaltion
-  Coordinae state- resCerch         -  No. of NRWS higher-l-evl staft                    -  Consolidation and ccoparlson of
Planning                          -  No. of staft In multi-disclllnary tes                state-leel voniorng Inddicators for
-  Provide teChnical assistence      -  No. of supervision and advisory visIts Per           resercf  end production
to state reseercn ag*nci s           state durlng lest telve  months
-  Generat-e s1ii tarmr              -  No. oat sminers and short course for State
t*clulologt                          personnel In last twelve months
-  No. of trials established
-  No. of trls _mintalned
-  No. ot Production system tests
-  no. of rglional agro-ecologIcai etudjas:
- In arogree
- cOietaed



-55 -
ANNE 9
NOR   RMRAL DEVE1W PROR
NORIIEASr E RR DEVECRbENT I PFDJECr
Total Amual Area and Prodction of Major Crops
Witbout Project and at Fui Delo
COPS              Wltbcut Project         With Project               Incremental
Area  Production    Area   Production    Area   Production  Vlvue
(ha)    (tons)      (ha)       (toi)      (ha)       (tori)  (US$I'000)
Cotton                   5,051      4,350      7,390      7,740      2,339     3,390    1,3b5
Maize                     6,047     6,860      7,172    10,250       1,125     3,390       413
Beams                    7,860      5,3bO     11,258    10,580       3,398     5,220    3,367
Cassava                  6,923    47,600       8,191     72,960      1,268    25,360       514
Grain Sorghun             -          -         1,612      4,840      1,612     4,840       5U1
Peanits                    547       870         629      1,340         82       470       116
Rim                        600        720        600      1,800        -       1,013       158
Sugarcaem                1,200    60,000       1,200    68,400        -        8,400       107
Tobacco                   1,530     1,22)      1,530      1,530        -         310       159
Oranges                  2,841    59,650       4,371    103,570      1,530    43,92U    2,946
Cocomuts ('000 fruits)     400      1,2U0        400      2,000        -         80O       122
Barsnan                    524      6,000        848    15,048         324     9,048      838
Tomatoes                   32D      4,80U        332      6,770         12     1,970       516
Passion Fruit             1,024     7,680        806      7,890       (218)      210        10
Pineapple                 -         -            656    11,140         656    11,140    1,291
9weet Potatoes             160       960         336     3,770         176     2,810      323
Yais                       428      3,900        740      7,800        312     3,900       477
Native Pasture          67,361  )              1,600  )            (65,761) )             -
TImproved Pasture         -    )              35,779  )             35,779  )             -
(Duffel Grass)                 ) 130,000             ) 76U,000            ) 630,000
Pa]m/Algarobs             -    )               9,670  )              9,670 )              -
leucaena                  -    )               2,418  )              2,418  )             -
Eleptlnt/Nopier Grass     -    )               1,335  )              1,335  )             -
Livestodc
Breedng es (head)         -          -           -      29,000        -       29,000    1,946
illU Ewes (head)          -          -           -      35,700         -      38,7U0    1,651
Slaughter Wethers (head)   -         -           -      72,530        -       72,530    3,980
Milk (1.)                 -           -          -      418,200        -     418,200       76
Beef (kg. livweight)      -          -           -      86,100        -       86,1D0       77
Total.                  35,455 1/ 209,970 2/  48,071 1/ 335,428 2/  12,616 1/ 125,45i 2/ 21,073
I/  E=l1udLng forage crops
2/  EimYluding cocomnts, fora- crops, ard livestock poducts



ANNEX 10
- 56 -                       Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORHTEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Yields and Areas of Major Crops at Farm Level
Without Project (W.O.) and at Full Development (F.D.)
----    Yields ------- -  ---Area----
W.O.       F.D.   Increase    W.O. F.I)
------kg/ha-----  (x)       ----ha--- -
SEMI-ARID  (MODEL 1)
Cotton + Maize + Beans                                                   3.0   2.5
Cotton                                300       350    17
Maize                                 400       450    13
Beans                                 320       400    25
Cotton + Sorghum + Beans (new)                                           0.0   2.0
Cotton                                 -        350    -
Grain Sorghum                          -      1,000    -
Beans                                  -        400    -
Cassava + Beans                                                          0.4   0.6!.
Cassava (18 months)                 8,000    10,000    25
Beans (alternate years)               320       4U0    25
IRRIGATED (MODEL 2) (new farm)
Maize + Beans                                                           -      0.5
Maize                                  -      1,900    -
Beans                                  -        800    -          -        -
Peanuts                                     -       3,000    -          -      0.2
Potatoes                                    -      10,000    -          -      0.1
Sweet Potatoes                              -      11,000    -          -      u.4
Watermelon                                  -      35,000    -          -      0.3
Beans                                       -       1,300    -          -      0.3
Bell Peppers                                -      10,000    -          -      0.04
Tomatoes                                    -      30,000    -          -      0.03
Bananas                                     -      20,000    -          -      0.04



-57 -                         ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
---------Yields----------- ---Area-----
W.O.        F.D.   Increase    W.O.  F.D
------kg/ha------  (7)       ---ha-------
SEMI-HUMID (MODEL 3)
Maize + Peanuts                                                          0.5      0.5
Maize                                  500        70U    29         -        -
Peanuts                                800      1,000    25         -        -
Vigna Beans                                  350        400    14        0.5      0.5
Tobacco                                     800      1,000    25         0.7     0.7
Cassava (18 months)                      13,000    17,000    31          1.6      1.6
Oranges (existing vs. new)               21,000    25,000    19          1.3      2.0
Passionfruit                              7,500      9,80U    31         0.4      U.3
Pineapple (new)                              -      17,000    -           -      0.3
SEMI-HUMID (MODEL 4)
Cassava + Beans                                                          0.4      U.b
Cassava (18 months)                 11,000    13,000    18
Beans (alternate years)                350        400    14         -        -
Yams (new crop)                              -      12,000      -        0.0       .4
Sugarcane (tons)                              50         57    14        2.4      2.4
SUB-HUMID (MODEL 5)
Maize + Beans                                                            0.6      1.0
Maize                                  600        750    25         -'       -
Beans                                  350        45U    29         -        -
Sweet Potatoes                            9,000    10,000    11          0.4      U.5
Bananas (old)                            12,000    14,000    17          0.3      0.3
Bananas (new)                                -      16,000      -         -       0.3
IRRIGATED - MODEL 6
Rice                                      1,200      3,000   150         1.0      1.5
Bananas (renewed)                        10,000    25,000   250          0.5      0.5
Tomatoes                                 15,000    20,000    33          0.3     0.8
Sweet Potatoes                            6,000      7,000    17         U.2     0.4



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROCRAM
NORTHEAST RURAI. DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
ProJect Economic Analysis
Cruzeiros Millions June 1984
1       2        3        4       5        6        7       9        9       10      It       12      1I       14       15       16       17      IE       19      20
ICREMETAL. ENKFITS
DRI'SS ON-FARM  EnEFITS                 -219    1143    4691   10696   17715   23084   28225   30291   11230   31719   32325   32148   32356   32153   32360   32153   32360   32153   32360   32153
FISH PRODPJCTIDO                           -       71      164     236      234      236     236      236      236      236     236      236      236     236      236      236     236      236      236     236
....... ....... . ...... ....... ....... ....... ....... ......... ....... ............................................................................. . ...... ........ _ ............ ........................ . ... ...... 
IOTAL KENFITS                           -219    1214    4845   10932   17951   23320   28461   30519   31466   31955   32561   32384   32592   32389   32596   32389   32596   32369   32596   32389
:::1313 :::::::::                            33:S   33::*M-- *X-$g33  333333  a3S3383 *33a33. l:3:::  3333  333333  3333232 333333  3333333 *$ 83333  3333333 33333 * 3:  :333833
IICRNIEtAL C05S1
GROSS ON-FA    COSTS                    2897    5923   13206   15565   10636    9901    9922   10869   10689    9985   10500   11237   11213   11363    9939   10870   11628   13038   13365   12518
JAIIKRI IRRIGATION  ROJACT               698      185        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
JACARECICA IRRIOATION  MROJECT           239    2126    2126         -        -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
IRRIGATION  IWIAGENENT                   253      205      180     133       70       44      44       44        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
FISiERIES DEVELOMENT                     154       40       40        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
AGRICULTtIAL RESEARCH                   1212    1275    1424    1395        940      584     584      584      563      470     313      313      313     313      313      313     313      313      323      313
EXIENSION                               3552    3183    3599    2913    1985    1229        12S9    1289    1233    1027        695      685      685     685      685      685      685     685      685     685
TRAININO(HARKETINGI                       8l       44      59       49       18        9       9        3        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
tIMET INFGRMATION                        136       57       57     105       1S       53      53       53       53       39      26       26       26      26       26       26      26       26       26       26
MMET IMPROWIIENTS                        229       11       S4     496      243      243       90       5        -                         -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -
MROJECT ADMINISTRATION                  2073    1296    1280    1027        775      573     559      615      512      384     256      256      256     256      256      256     256      256      256      256
REGIOIL ADMINISTRATION                  1114      590     492      340      229      157     157      214      170      127      85        -        -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
REG6INA   RESEARCH ADMINISTRATION        124       82       75      52       40       26      26       26       26       20      13        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -
INCREI(NTML COSTS                      12762   15017   22631   22074   15015   12879   12633   13702   13246   12052   11978   12517   13093   12643   11219   12150   12909   24318   14645   13799
::::::: ~ ~    ~    ==== ::::::: :::::::              Ras::  ...::  a.::  ::::::: Xt^^--8  on:XW8g  0--X XX:F::SX  ::a:::S1 :5:agg; ::gZZ222 *g2882s  a:tllG  *Jg:axl :UXXs& :::,B.:
ItCREtENTAL NIE  KKNEFITS
.......... .................. ...
TOTAL IICRENENTAL NET RENEFITS        -1299t  -13803  -17786  -11142    2936   10441   15828   16817   18220  I2S03   20693   19867   19499   19746   21377   20219   19688   18071   17951   18591
::    zzz ::::::::::::::::::s:::::==                    assa^Wa.  mX&s sama axg aganum  gzXa: *zx ::   :::a ssxx sagns:a::azs s=:mZ sr zgm  saUt             t ,5::: ::,,:
--__-_---    -   .....------         --.  ---   -_--_-----------33-------3----------337...33....3...33331....3..........:.........___.._..3....33...._1....2..............3...___3____-...3........_..._.......



- 59 -
ANNEX 12
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
Principal Prices used for Financial and Economic Analysis
(Cruzeiros in constant June 1984 prices)
Ec nomic
Financial                 1984       1998
Selected Products
Beans          per kg                1,050                   1,050       1,050
Maize                                   200                     272        249
Rice              -                    240                     341         413
Sorghum           -                    170                     170         170
Cottor          "                      670                     863         858
Banana         per ton             150,000                 150,000    150,000
Cassava                             39,700                  39,700      39,700
Oranges          -                 110,000                 110,000    110,000
Selected Inputs
Triple superphosphate per kg           500                     396         461
Potassium Chloride                     350                     309         342
Urea                                   450                     468         630
SOURCE: Bank Mission



- 60 -
ANNEX 13
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
NOKHTEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT I PROJECT
List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
1. State Government of Sergipe: *Projeto Nordeste," May-June 198k.
Volume I    -  Summary of Program
Volume II   -  Diagnostic Study
Volume III - Project Components (10 sub-volumes)
Annex       -  Financial and Economic Analysis
2. State Government of Sergipe: 'Institutional Aspects of Implementation,"
August 1984.
3.  SUDENE:  "Regional Program of Support to the Small Rural Producer,-
May 1984.
Volume I    -  Program Summary
Volume II   -  Background
Part I    -  The Brazilian Economy
Part II   -  The Northeast
Part III - The Rural Sector in the Northeast
Volume III  -  Policy Framework
Volume IV   - The Program
Part I       -  Global Conception
Part II-VIII - Program Components
Part IX      -  Targets and Total Costs
Volume V    -  Administration
Volume VI   -  Socio-Economic Justification
Annex       - Regional Agricultural Programming
4. SUDENE: "Description of the Programming, Monitoring and Evaluation
Sub-systems," September 1984.
5.  SUDENE:  Nordeste em Dados, 1984.
6.  IBiD, SUDENE, and State Government of Sergipe:  "Minutes of Understanding"
(2 Volumes), July 1984.
7.  IBRD.  Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1. Water Resource Development - Irrigation
2. Water Resource Development - Water Supply
3. Agricultural Research and Rural Extension
4. Marketing
5. Community Support
6. Agricultural Development and Farm Models
7. Financial and Economic Analysis
8. Detailed Costs



- 61 -                                      .
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEEOPMENT I PROJECT
Noaheast Rural Devopment Promgia
Project Coordinaffon and Management Chait
COOMNON&                               POLICY&WSOW
wAPLARONCN                                  RVCONS
COMON
FEDWM U
NOR   FDR E
|  .                          ~~~~~~~~~~~REGUONALRUAL
"crw e                             ~~~~~~~~~~DEVEOTWCOUWA
R = a ~   JI  I _ _  _ _   _N
-~~~~~~~~_ 'E IE'mJWEL
I   OGiJ~WtO~  LACURAUIUU-
SE~~~~UAMSUC                                                     LS WE RSE 
~~*ffiG&    Sf&ICMCALRALRtIF
SIEL
STAECOOOD
UNl          - - - -T-- - -GOI/ER M    SE                    SEC
NOR  PLRANI AMR pE LAZ
MAF4AG8W0ffUar*
I                                                        L    __
II      .                                           I   '  
kVaEnN  WTM BMM  CkfANWCOKOSION                          _
I~~~~ IA/O                                                                           I   SEECN
I                          & r !-E lEaJ CLKES                   [ _ F0              I- AG_E
I  '1 1I
rd Nff(R)            LM       F      Qw QUNff        UNIT                              ILOA
I                                                                  I                     B
LI                             EEQE                                                  CSn*-2>78n5



46                            42'
ro Belirm
/      (v'-F.
-2'                      1                LSAO,         -
P A  R A   -                                                        , ana  
ISon-ho                             \
A/r N                             rH
.<~ ~ ~ K 95'/P(AU  
~~ /  ,    ~~~~~ r, ESnAo de       / 
I      -. X          /,i  <I                      -
G O I A S-K
10*~~~~~~~~~~1
,\ \      B   A.  H  A    A >
0                                             fori orreos 
MS.ont
M4              detor X A  S c '-
*O     C  ,>        -_        /       ;    -,ioi
( .-J   FZJ                  - |      v--    Coonqustci g.
FEDERAL DISTRICT'. E.   :                                         IReT--
Le<3Bras;iio                 -                  s  
(                     Montes              9         
'        -      ~~Cloros d . ----               f
z?/
la         7  M IN AS    G ER A I Ss/
,.<                                          .t~~~~~~~~~~~~ESPiRITO 
46-                           42.   SSANTO  t
-                     ~~~~~~~~~~II  (--  To Vitori



IBRD 18480
3V~Nt-ZJA.~ u     /  P . FR 3UItANA
38'                             COLOMBA IFI
-    ,*  'S         SURIIIMAE_
G.UYANA
2--          B    R    A
t- Z    7 .............. PRAORAM AREA
PERu ?          -  PI
.                                                                          S -  A POL IVI_ 5.
..<1        ..............FORTALEZA                                           ,
-&                                                                        CHILE_/        0        ;i    y   ) blomerfs   0  1000
,.  -  ',    .j '  RIO GRANDE    :       ARGE NTINAL tk            a3000
.; - \ j/ DO  NORTE                        .URUSUAV
t J f   .     . /   *  : Mocoto , 1 \       .        , ,,,,7,-.. w ra,, £wa.a r o pfzs,~ I ,,,, ,,,,, ,,, usE.ca- In.^ I. ,on,.C, ,,0',,"
J / \ \ ,\ t [ [ ; ~~~~~~~~7. '.dat.. .a   *$ O.*S*   JO'  tdE.    sfl  Of -ts  mv it,'.o7  Fnven. rani       Litenlnt,O rnt
,,Crot6u                                                                      R~~~~~Mcro- . -P~..C~n'I' n a.~f, atsd   on.-wa. .ws'a  o
,  ,C  E.1 A  R  A          zj                                                                                     @
; _   % =          i   7      _       ?   ~~~~~~RECIFE
JUCJZOIrO n t                          _      n   MACEIOn 10
N
.4  __ A -                 /H        \;          RCJ
-  -                                       A-t AAj-      S
-,  Feis     -.    /-
L)ra       ~Santona
/                             ~~~~~BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
.  ---,/: 1  /   SALVADOR                              PROGRAM AREA
-.J J     Existing Bank-Financed Rural Development Projects*
Main Roads
Cionuss *do                                       -     Rivers
/sohyets in mm.
a.     State Capitals
°'°     ~      .   I                                     °      Selected Towns
2J  l                                 -    -    State Boundories
.1                    ). -.  - bternotionol Boundaries
/                                   Kilomters 0      100      200      300
_71~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1B
sr - t llt~~~~~~~~~~ile,                                 i oo          2600l-
<ESPIRITO  >   .                                          *Number indicates crder of mplementotion
'SANTO                       318_
,.   7o Votori1
DECEMBER 1984



38000,                                        37r30'                                                        .tNeUILe   JSUeI;LII
9'30'                                                                                                           9o30'- 
:    '~.,                                     0       10      20      30      40      50                                                     '7
(:.                     .                                      KILOMETERS                                                              3ERGpEt)
Corka de S. Fr,"n.       ?/                                                                                                                      O
-. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iAtIanfic Oremn
C'                     k               >.    8ALAGOAS
500 t \ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ._. :. ~~~~~~~~Ocean  |ARGENTINA
600   \                                                                                                                                      36030
-10,00                                                      Mon AAW&  SwopeA                                    WS                                                    10'00'
\0000,  CANINDE D C SAO  F*NCISCO                                                                                                  10000 
%    ~~SEM -RID    gtJZ    ^, -     
BAHIA                                                                                        C XdooNd
1'  'as'-    '->S 5                        D          O        R        E        S     \,                 t       N
NOSSA
*           ~~~Ngosa SWJ,n Ap1ockeu
10'30                            i
P/                        .fJ*ITOR;d OE   H



I . , > W°'W ' ' " iSil~~~~DAS DORES                                                                                                            tuba#'
ad, e ., ,,4X2~~~~~~~0                                                                        5D,u,             opot6               °CIDjlTAB,,nw! ,
-   8                            L                                  BRA7'1L~~~~~LITRA
u    ^   tAGARrO g  X                                 a             ;,>                 , 7t            DEVELOPMENT PRI ABAIANA  P'-
Ved           .                       -/                            -{,/}   i(
\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ AAA                                                                NORTHEAS  RURAL
,>/e.arwrl    AGART r' .Pdlh                                                            r, ),
X       <       f    0 .> .......            J           Q  j  <SI^Il                                                  - DEVELOP ENT  PRxGRA
rr.00                                                                                                                                       Projec I4 e.-[:f7L  
I i 30  t;rr;d# .Zz re,S¢                                                                          S --*  u M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poiec Priority Zonea Boundaries
r rus _.s) 4 rv  *'r9 @A  
ca*so'lerr*>Xt*.*-^ lo:1w   *  /                                                     ~*@~  Stle Boundorie
b vrwra-.>-.l ssl.S~~~~~~- t wArPayd   Roa,
0~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt a2, ,bA                                                                                                                  OihFer< cRood& X ;1,!,|Y .... 
5E~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~shes ino:                                                        millieler                I 1     r30
,B                   ~~~~~~~38 00'                                     37 30'                                          37'00'                                         36'130'    



