Report No. PIC887
Project Name                       Nepal-Irrigation Sector Project (@+)
Region                             South Asia
Sector                             Agriculture
Product ID                         NPPA10530
Borrower                           His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Implementing Agencies              Department of Irrigation,
Ministry of Water Resources
Department of Hydrology &
Meteorology, Ministry of
Science and Technology
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Fax (977-1) 537169
Phone (977-1)537136,535383,527442,526768
Contact: Mr. M.M.Shrestha, Act.
Director General
Department of Irrigation
Department of Agriculture,
Ministry of Agriculture
His Majesty's Government of Nepal
Phone (977-1) 215382/215507
Contact: Mr. M.D. Pant, Secretary
Ministry of Agriculture
Date of Initial PID Prepared       January 30, 1990
Date of this PID Prepared          May 22, 1997
Project Appraisal Date             June 23, 1997
Project Board Date                 September 11, 1997
Sector Issues.
1.      Nepal is endowed with few natural resources, among them water
is the most promising resources for development. However, Its
development poses complex challenges because of the non-uniform
spatial, temporal, and seasonal distribution on the one hand, and
the riparian issues on the other. This is compounded by the
country's lack of effective national level planning and management
initiatives, and the lack of coordination among stakeholders. Water
has never been treated as a unitary resource that affects all
sectors of the country. Under the population pressure combined with
the ad-hoc nature of development of water resources, some visible
negative ecological changes are being observed. This highlights the
need for the government to prepare a comprehensive and integrated
water resources strategy to tackle the issues in prioritized manner.
2.      As per HMGN's Irrigation Policy, new developments in
irrigated agriculture focuses on users' participation in order to
promote ownership by beneficiaries and to reduce O&M burden on
public resources. Sustainability of past investments have been



thwarted by the proliferation of new construction and inadequate
attention paid to operation and maintenance. Irrigation development
was caught in a vicious cycle of "construction-destruction-and-
rehabilitation". It is against this background that the
participatory irrigation development was identified as the only
viable solution for sustainable irrigation development.
3.      Allowing farmers' participation in the decision-making
process of planning, design, construction implementation, and
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems will help ensure
sustainability of the systems. It will also re-orientate the public
agencies towards relinquishing part of their O&M responsibilities
to users' organizations and upgrading their skills in implementing
the sector programs.
Project Objectives
4.      The first objective is to assist the His Majesty's Government
of Nepal in harmonizing the planning of its water resources in a
sustainable and economically viable manner.
5.      The second objective is to increase irrigation system
sustainability and productivity by demand driven activities in poor
farming communities (based on the successful pilot experience in
the on-going Irrigation Line of Credit).
Project Description
6.      The project is aimed for a time slice of a long-term sector
investment, based on an agreed country program to improve the
productivity and sustainability of the country's water resources.
In particular, it would support the irrigation sector including
implementation of a large-scale on-going pilot program. It would
also support the Government's new development focus on
strengthening the country's institutional and technical capability
in water planning and management, and orienting public agencies
towards relinquishing gradually part of their O&M responsibilities
to user organizations in irrigated agriculture. The project area is
in three Western Development Regions and Eastern Region
(for Sunsari Morang).
A. Water Resources Strategy and Integrated Water Resources Policy
Development. HMGN is currently preparing a water resources strategy
in two phases. The Phase I Water Resources Strategy Formulation
identifying the development issues and prioritizing them according
to the country's development objectives was completed in early
1997. The project will continue to assist HMGN in completing the
Phase II Strategy Formulation which is to define the practical
options, address the prioritized issues, and recommend a
comprehensive strategy for implementing the optimal development of
Nepal's water resources. The Phase I study has been finalized at a
public forum in February 1997.
B. Irrigation Sector Infrastructure Improvement and Development
Component: This component would finance improvement and development
-2 -



of private and public irrigation schemes, based on the "demand-
driven" and "participatory" principles adopted under the HMGN's
revised Irrigation Policy 1997. The policy focuses on improving the
development and management of irrigation schemes through legalized
water user groups' participation in the design, construction, and
in the operation and maintenance of schemes. The component
comprises the followings.
(a) rehabilitation, modernization and development of about 390
small- and medium-scale farmer-owned and managed irrigation schemes
(FMIS) covering a command area of about 39,500 ha using surface or
ground water.
The component will finance: (i) rehabilitation or modernization of
temporary headworks and intakes structures, main and secondary
canals, and conveyance systems of selected FMIS (31,500 ha) fed by
surface water, and (ii) rehabilitation and development of new
clustered tube-well irrigation (8,000 ha) fed by ground water. The
rehabilitation works to be financed are those beyond the
beneficiary farmers' technical and financial capacity to implement
on their own, and by the make-shift nature of brushwood diversion
and intake structures, are also threatening to the environmental
sustainability of the regions.
(b)System Improvement and Turnover to Farmer (SIFT) of public
irrigation area covering 20,100 ha.. This component will finance
both Joint Management and Turnover schemes of public irrigation
schemes, where beneficiaries will also be involved in the design
and construction of tertiary canal distribution units, which do not
exist in the original systems, and which will be developed and
turned over to farmers after completion of schemes.
(i)     Department of Irrigation (DOI)/ farmer joint management
(JM) schemes of about 17,600 ha [including 15,100 ha under
Sunsari Morang III] This sub-component of the project would
finance rehabilitation and modernization of Sunsari Morang
Irrigation Phase III and some other schemes under joint
management. After rehabilitation and modernization, O&M of
the distribution networks will be responsible by WUGs in
conjunction with O&M of the headworks and main conveyance
system by the agency.
(a)     Sunsari Morang System -Phase III .The objective of this
sub-component is to rehabilitate and improve irrigation on
15,100 ha in continuation of the Bank-funded Sunsari Morang
Irrigation II Project (completed in March 1995). Financing
of the proposed Phase III would include: (i) improvement and
rehabilitation of the main canal of the system beyond the
completed Sunsari Morang Phase II area; (ii) rehabilitation
and modernization of secondary canals and related structures,
drains and inspection road networks; (iii) development of
distribution networks by constructing sub-secondary and
tertiary canal systems; (iv) construction of 5.5 km Kosi
Flood Embankment on the east bank of the Kosi River; (v)
technical assistance and institutional capacity-building
-3 -



for staff and beneficiary-WUAs in project implementation;
(vi) other miscellaneous works and infrastructure necessary
for proper O&M of the developed system, and
(vii) institutional development to strengthen DOI centra
1 and, in particular, its project office, the WUAs, and
local non-governmental organization in management transfer
process of tertiary and higher order canals to users.
(b)     Turnover schemes (TO) of about 2,500 ha. (US$ 0.6
million) The new Irrigation Policy mandates that, public
schemes irrigating less than 2000 ha in Terai and 500 ha in
Hills are to be turned-over (TO) to beneficiary farmers
(through legalized WUGs) if they agree to take over
ownership and full responsibility for rehabilitation,
operation and management after rehabilitation. The project
will finance improvements in the conveyance networks of
medium and small public irrigation schemes covering about
2,500 ha prior to their being turned-over to beneficiaries.
(c)     Infrastructure support development (Farm roads, River
Protection, Environmental Protection), work shops and pilot
projects for integration of water resources development
schemes. This component will finance construction of farm
roads, river and environmental protection measures required
in a number of FMIS, as well as ancillary river protection
works under some FMIS schemes. In addition, the project will
support a pilot effort of integrating water resource
development where and when technical and economic viability
exist, and in accordance with the "demand-driven" and
"participatory" principles for integrating rural water
supply works and/or micro-hydropower generation components
in irrigation schemes.
C. Institutional Strengthening and Development. The project will
finance consultancy services, studies, training, equipment,
vehicles, investigation works and limited incremental staff
support, to the following implementing agencies directly involved
in the project implementation.
(a) Department of Irrigation: DOI will have primary
responsibility for implementing the project's infrastructure
development. The project will finance technical assistance
for institutional strengthening of DOI in design and
supervision of the NISP implementation, studies, training,
equipment, materials, and vehicles, including strengthening
of DOI Training Branch, and piloting of on-farm water
management activities in completed FMIS. The consultancy
services for detailed design and construction supervision of
SMIP-III would however be arranged separately due to its
location and its sizable works.
(b) Department of Hydrology and Meteorology (DHM): The
project will support strengthening of DHM in hydro-
meteorological data collection, collation, and management. In
addition, the project will also support the strengthening of
- 4 -



DHM's data collection networks formed under basinwise
boundary, data dissemination functions and basin-wise
resources planning effort in about 91 sub-basins (in three of
the four major country river basins) covered under the
project .
(c) Department of Agriculture (DOA): In view of the proposed
National Agricultural Research, Extension and Training
Project now under preparation which would cover a wider range
of agricultural activities on a national scale, the project
will provide only limited support to the DOA's intensified
efforts to extend agricultural extension services to specific
irrigated areas, including strengthening of District DOA's
capacity for preparing and appraising new irrigation schemes,
through financing of vehicles, equipment, farmers' training,
and training for extension staff to carryout field extension
work in completed ILC/NISP schemes.
(d) Water User Associations (WUAs), Non Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), and Community Based Organizations
(CBOs) The project will finance training of selected regional
and district staff and WUAs, NGOs, and CBOs in such topics as
NISP principles and procedures, systems O&M, participatory
environmental protection in hill irrigation, irrigated water
management, farmer organization, financial management, credit
accessing, and marketing.
Project Financing
8.      The project will be implemented over a five year period. The
provisional project cost estimates, by component, including
physical and price contingencies, are: (i)Water Resources Strategy,
US$ 1.0 million; (ii) Irrigation Sector Infrastructure Improvement
and Development, US$ 82.6 million; and (iii) Institutional
Strengthening and Development, US$16.6 million. The proposed cost
sharing arrangement is:
IDA                              = US$ 80.0 milliom
HMGN                             = US$ 14.6million
Beneficiary farmers              = US$ 7.3 million
Total                            = US$101.9 million
The total estimated project cost of US$101.9 million is subject to
a thorough review of the project scope and HMGN's implementation
capacity.
Project Implementation
9.      The NISP will be implemented over a five-year period.
Implementation of individual FMIS scheme under NISP should in any
case be no more than two consecutive years. Construction of water
courses under SMIP-III involving farmers' labor contribution (box-
cutting and sodding) would be tested during the first year of the
project in selected pilot areas covering about 1300 ha. Lessons
learned from implementation of this program will be applied to the
- 5-



design and implementation of the remaining areas.
10.     The construction works for all FMIS, TO and JM schemes
(except SMIP-III) will be procured through national competitive
bidding (NCB) managed by concerned DIO/WUA with the exception of
small schemes (under Rs.1.0 m) which, with their agreement, could
be undertaken by beneficiaries themselves. Standarized NCB bidding
documents will be used for NCB. Supply and Installation of pumps
and electrical equipment for groundwater schemes will be procured
in lots (groups/clusters) through standard ICB procedures
acceptable to and cleared by IDA.
11.     The SMIP-III construction works will be procured through (a)
ICB for main, secondary, tertiary canal system rehabilitation and
modernization works and flood embankment; and (b) NCB (or ICB) with
farmers participation in construction of water courses and lower
system. The first year will be devoted to the preparation of
detailed designs, contracting and pilot area construction on 1300
ha, and the subsequent four years to construction implementation.
Environmental Aspects
12.     There are no major environmental issues although construction
conditions will be difficult for most sub-projects. Formulation of
an acceptable construction approach is essential for both
environmental reasons and for sustainability of project
investments. Environmental impact assessment and mitigation
measures will be taken up during the whole cycle of each sub-
project. Sub-project-specific environmental analysis would be
undertaken to identify environmental protection and mitigation
measures for selected sub-projects. These mitigation measures would
be built into the design of the sub-projects, where appropriate
(e.g. anti-erosion construction measures, use of vetiver grass to
control erosion and slippage in cuts on hillsides for canals, and
monitoring of groundwater levels for groundwater subprojects). The
objectives would be to make environmental protection a standard
element of sub-project preparation and implementation, and to
maximize the role of local participation in environmental
protection activities. Some pilot efforts on mitigation measures
has been carried out under the ongoing Irrigation Line of Credit
(ILC) pilot program. As schemes involved are farmer-managed private
schemes, beneficiary awareness of the environmental impact will be
introduced from the start of scheme preparation, through training,
construction, implementation and monitoring of operations. The
project has specific but limited environmental benefits related to
modernization of brushwood diversion structures and prevention of
excessive seepage by lining earthen canal in hill slopes.
Status of Project Preparation
13.     All components of the project have been prepared up to the
feasibility level study and design. For Sunsari Morang Irrigation
III component, a detailed design for the first year construction on
the pilot area (1,300 ha) development has been completed. The
detailed preparation of construction drawings and the final design
- 6 -



for the remaining areas is necessary.
14.     For the FMIS, the feasibility study, detailed design and NCB
tender preparation for each sub project will be prepared upon
receipt of farmers' demand in the course of implementation. The
project cost for the FMIS component is based on the detailed
feasibility studies of model sub-projects. Local and foreign
consultancy services will be necessary for the project
implementation.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 20, 1997.
- 7 -



Annex
Environmental Issues
There are no major environmental issues although construction
conditions will be difficult for most sub-projects. Formulation of
an acceptable construction approach is essential for both
environmental reasons and for sustainability of project
investments. An environmental review has been completed by NISP
consultants (Feasibility Studies, December 1995) which dealt with
two levels of issues: (i) the overall assessment of impact and
mitigation measures; and (ii) methods of integrating environmental
protection into participatory irrigation development. The positive
aspect of the project is that farmers' rudimentary brushwood type
of weirs using local forest products will be replaced with gabion
weir made up of local stone, thereby reducing the environmental
threat to forests.
-8-



