                                       Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 31484

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-30090)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 58.70 MILLION (US$ 79.77 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                                   KINGDOM OF NEPAL

                                          FOR A

                              IRRIGATION SECTOR PROJECT




                                      February 11, 2005




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2003)

                               Currency Unit = Nepali Rupees (NRs.)
                                    NRs. 1.0 = US$ 0.133
                                     US$ 1.0 = NRs. 75.00

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 16   July 15

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
ADBN    Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AREP    Agricultural Research and Extension Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community-Based Organization
CIDA    Canadian International Development Agency
DADO    District Agricultural Development Officer
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DG      Director General
DHM     Department of Hydrology and Meteorology
DOA     Department of Agriculture
DOI     Department of Irrigation
DFID    Department for International Development
DTW     Deep Tubewell
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization
FIRR    Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMIS    Farmer-Managed Irrigation Scheme
HMGN    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IFAD    International Fund for Agriculture Development
ILC     Irrigation Line of Credit
ISF     Irrigation Service Fee
ISP     Irrigation Sector Project
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA     Ministry of Agriculture
MOWR    Ministry of Water Resources
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NISP    Nepal Irrigation Sector Project
NPC     National Planning Commission
NWPU    National Water Planning Unit
NWRS    National Water Resources Strategy
NWRDP   National Water Resources Development Plan
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
OFWM    On-Farm Water Management

PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PBME    Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
PCCC    Project Central Coordination Committee
PCO     Project Coordination Office
PIC     Project Implementation Committee
PIP     Project Implementation Plan
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
RAD     Regional Agricultural Director
SMIP    Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project
SOE     Statement of Expenditure
STW     Shallow Tubewell
TOR     Terms of Reference
UNDP    United Nations Development Project
WECS    Water and Energy Commission Secretariat
WUA     Water Users' Association
WUAF    Water Users' Association Facilitator
WUCC    Water Users Coordination Committee
WUG     Water Users' Groups

                             Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
                          Country Director      Kenichi Ohashi
                            Sector Manager      Adolfo Brizzi
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Shyam S. Ranjitkar

                                            NEPAL
                                  Irrigation Sector Project
                             Implementation Completion Project
                                        (Cr.3009-NEP)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       11
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                   25

Project ID: P010530                                                  Project Name: Irrig Sector Devt
Team Leader: Shyam Sundar Ranjitkar                                  TL Unit: SASAR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 18, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Irrig Sector Devt                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-30090
   Country/Department: NEPAL                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

       Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (79%); Central government administration
                            (18%); Other social services (1%); Water supply (1%); Renewable
                            energy (1%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Rural policies and institutions (P); Decentralization (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD: 06/18/1997                                      Effective: 12/30/1997                09/17/1998
     Appraisal: 09/29/1997                                         MTR: 12/31/1999                  05/04/2000
     Approval: 11/25/1997                                       Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



   Borrower/Implementing Agency:           His Majesty's Government of Nepal/Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of
                                           Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Science and Technology, Water and
                                           Energy Commission Secretariat//Ministry of Water Resources; His Majesty's
                                           Government of Nepal/Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Agriculture and
                                           Cooperatives, Ministry of Science and Technology, Water and Energy
                                           Commission Secretariat/Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives; His Majesty's
                                           Government of Nepal/Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Agriculture and
                                           Cooperatives, Ministry of Science and Technology, Water and Energy
                                           Commission Secretariat/Ministry of Science and Technology; His Majesty's
                                           Government of Nepal/Ministry of Water Resources, Ministry of Agriculture and
                                           Cooperatives, Ministry of Science and Technology, Water and Energy
                                           Commission Secretariat/Water and Energy Commission Secretariat
                      Other Partners:      Canadian International Development Agency, Benefeciary Farmers, Food and
                                           Agriculture Organization

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Kenichi Ohashi                                 Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Sector Manager:                 Adolfo Brizzi                                  Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:             Shyam S. Ranjitkar                             Ohn Myint
ICR Primary Author:             Charles Bevan (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN

    Institutional Development Impact:     M
                  Bank Performance:       S
             Borrower Performance:        S


                                                    QAG (if available)            ICR
                                 Quality at Entry: S                              S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1     The original objectives were: (a) to assist the Government in planning and using its water resources in a
harmonized and sustainable manner; and (b) to increase productivity and sustainability of irrigation systems on
about 59,600 hectares of land in selected districts of three Western and Eastern regions. Both objectives were to a
considerable extent derived from earlier interventions in the sector. Thus at the time of preparation the
Government had initiated policy reforms for the sector based on "demand-driven" and "participatory management"
principles, and work had begun on the development of a National Water Resources Strategy (NWRS) and
Irrigation Policy (IP). The project aimed at introducing reforms in the water resources sector on a national scale,
completion of the National Water Resources Development Plan (NWRDP), and at a general increase in the
productivity of irrigation schemes through the large scale adoption of proven technical interventions. The project
conformed closely with the objectives of the CAS in so far as it aimed at alleviating poverty through raising
incomes and outputs of farmer beneficiaries, in an environmentally sustainable way. Furthermore, the CAS
identified the potential for improving agricultural output through the adoption of better irrigation practices, as one
of the best ways of increasing economic growth.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1     At the Mid-Term Review (MTR) the wording of the first objective was modified slightly, to include
specific reference to policies and strategies. The revised objective was: "to enable sustainable development and
management of Nepal's water resources by means of a comprehensive and integrated national water management
policy and strategy."

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1     At appraisal there were three components, each with a number of sub-components.

A.        Formulation of a Comprehensive Water Resources Strategy and Consolidated Water Policy (US$1.43
million). (i) US$1.32 million was allocated to finance a Technical Assistance Study aimed at completing the work
started during project preparation.     The study was to review all existing policies, acts, and regulations on
hydropower, irrigation, urban and rural water supply, industrial waste water, etc. to ensure their compatibility and
consistency with the proposed NWRS. It also included the formulation of a consolidated Water Policy, leading to
the preparation of a National Water Resources Development Plan, and a Water-Related Environmental
Management Plan for the short, medium and long-term. It also included funding for a review of the Government's
subsidy policy with regard to irrigation development, with a view to the gradual reduction of subsidies over time,
and a review of Operation and Management (O&M) costs of public irrigation schemes and the proportion of these
costs that could be raised through associated water charges. (ii) The second sub-component (US$0.11 million) was
to provide institutional support to the Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR) and the National Planning
Commission (NPC) to establish a National Water Planning Unit (NWPU) at the central level.

B.        Irrigation Sector Improvement and Development (US$83.63 million).           This was divided into three
sub-components. (i) The first (US$38.81 million) sub-component involved the physical rehabilitation and



                                                         - 2 -

improvement of basic structures on some 31,500 ha of Farmer Managed Irrigation Schemes (FMIS) in the Hills
and Terai; and the rehabilitation and improvement of some 8,000 ha of group owned/operated tubewells in the
Terai. (ii) The second (US$40.65 million) sub-component owned to rehabilitate and improve the Sunsari Morang
irrigation system leading to an increase in the command area of some 15,100 ha and turnover to the users of about
5,000 ha of government-managed projects after rehabilitation.            The works envisaged included substantial
improvements to the headworks and main canal and secondary systems, as well as tertiary feeder canals for the
new area. (iii) The third sub-component (US$4.17 million) was to construct supporting infrastructure, such as
feeder roads or river protection works on a number of FMIS schemes; and the integration of micro-hydropower
generation and water supply scheme on a pilot basis.

C.        Institutional Strengthening of Implementing Agencies (US$17.96 million). This was divided into four
sub-components. (i) Department of Irrigation (DOI) (US$9.55 million). The project was to finance the costs of
consulting services for design and construction supervision, water planning studies, O&M planning, scheme
implementation and strengthening of DOI Training Branch. It was also to finance construction/rehabilitation of
buildings and equipment for the central and district offices of the DOI, and a program of On-Farm Water
Management demonstrations in 10% of the completed FMIS schemes.                    (ii) Department of Hydrology and
Meteorology (US$5.52 million). The project would provide for the equipment needed for improved data collection
and processing by DHM, including enhancement of data collection networks in 77 sub-basins within three of the
country's four main river systems in the three Western Regions and the Central Region. (iii) Department of
Agriculture (DOA) (US$2.03 million). Support would be provided to the district offices to assist in the appraisal of
schemes for rehabilitation, and to provide agricultural training services in FMIS schemes not covered by the
contemporaneous Agricultural Research and Extension Project (AREP) also supported by the World Bank. (iv)
Water User Associations (WUAs), NGOs and CBOs (US$0.86 million). Funds would be provided for the training
of staff of such organizations in such activities as: irrigated water management, farmer organizations, financial
management, credit accessing and marketing. The training courses to be designed by the DOI consultants and
staff of the DOI Training Branch.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1     Following the MTR, an amount of SDR 6.058 million (US$8.01 million equivalent) was cancelled in
August 2000 reducing the overall Credit from SDR 58.7 million (US$79.77 million equivalent) to SDR 52.64
million (US$69.1 million equivalent). This cancellation was due in the main to substantial depreciation of the
Nepali Rupee over the early years of the project, some reduction of the project area in the Sunsari Morang
irrigation system, and unforeseen reductions in unit costs, especially for FMIS improvement. There were no
changes to the project components as such, with the reduction being spread almost evenly over the project as a
whole. There was however a small increase of 3% in the amount allocated for civil works under the first
sub-component of the Irrigation Sector Improvement and Development component.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


3.5.1     In so far as the project design was largely based on previous successful interventions in the sector by the
World Bank and other donors, and on the evolving National Irrigation Policy, Project design was considered to be
satisfactory. In particular the benefits from interventions to rehabilitate FMIS, and the use of tubewells had been
demonstrated by the earlier Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC) Project, Irrigation Sector Project (ISP), the Bhairawa
Lumbini Groundwater Project and the IFAD Groundwater Project 1994-2000.                    The earlier Sunsari Morang
Projects I and II had demonstrated the potential of transferring partial responsibility for surface scheme (tertiary
canal system) maintenance to users. The project was perhaps nevertheless somewhat ambitious in that it was
designed to expand the area of irrigation in the country under farmer management; and at the same time improve
the management of such schemes at minimal cost to the public sector.                Thus although pilot activities had
demonstrated the potential for the transfer of responsibility or partial responsibility to farmers for scheme
operation, this was the first time it had been attempted for the entire project area. The project implementation and
monitoring mechanism relied heavily on the use of consultants recruited by the DOI, rather than relying on DOI
staff. Whilst this was a sensible initiative, in view of the shortage then of staff in the DOI, it had considerable risks



                                                          - 3 -

which became apparent during implementation. In particular, there were difficulties associated with the selection
and recruitment of competent consultants, and in financial management and control. Furthermore, such heavy
reliance on consultants provided limited opportunity for DOI to gain "hands on" experience under the project.
With hindsight it is also clear that the design was much in favour of engineering and institutions, and did not pay
as much attention to the agricultural aspects of the project, from which the main benefits were expected to flow.
The project also relied on the contemporaneous AREP to address agricultural needs of 11 project districts­ see
Section 4.2.B. In spite of these weaknesses, overall the quality at entry is assessed as satisfactory.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1     The project has substantially achieved its first objective in so far as a Water Resources Strategy has been
approved and operationalized, and a National Water Plan has been drafted and finalized. As far as the second
objective is concerned it has improved the productivity of an area of nearly 70,000 ha, well in excess of the original
target of 59,600 ha, although there are questions about the medium to longer term sustainability of the
improvements. The overall assessment is satisfactory.

4.1.2     Extension of Credit Closing Date: The credit was first extended till June 2003 to complete the works in a
number of districts which were disturbed by Maoist insurgency. The extension was approved on the basis of
satisfactory project performance at the time. Substantial work was completed during the period of ceasefire. A
second extension was approved to complete the remaining works especially in the mid-western and far western
regions of the country where the insurgency originally started.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A.        Comprehensive Water Resources Strategy and Consolidated Water Policy:                A consortium of local
consultants was appointed by the Water and Energy Commission Secretariat (WECS) in 1999 to complete work on
this strategy, and a Water Resources Strategy was approved by HMGN in January 2002. Additional funding in the
amount of US$744,500 was provided by the Canadian International Development Agency to cover some of the cost
of international consultants needed to complete the work.         Task forces supported by local consultants were
appointed to prepare a National Water Plan and Environmental Management Plan. A draft of these plans was
presented to a panel of experts in June 2004. At the time of project closure, these plans had not been approved by
HMGN. The WECS has been appointed as the National Water Planning Unit. A study was completed on
irrigation subsidies in 2000. A study was also undertaken on Irrigation O&M and cost recovery in agency
managed irrigation schemes which indicated inter alia that irrigation service fees to cover O&M cost should be in
the region of US$10/ha for agency managed schemes. The recommendations have yet to be adopted by the DOI.

B.         Irrigation Schemes:

§         Small and Medium Scale FMIS: In total 373 surface schemes were improved or rehabilitated with a total
area of 46,250 ha well in excess of the appraisal target of 31,500 ha. Of the total area improved, some 4,000 ha are
in the high mountains, 22,000 ha are in the mid-hills, and 20,000 ha are in the terai. In the high mountains,
plastic lining for reservoirs and pipe conveyances were the main infrastructure provided. In the mid-hills and
terai, civil works construction consisted mainly of headworks, cross drainage structures and canal lining. This is a
significant achievement, especially given that for much of the project period there has been serious civil
disturbance in many of the project areas. A system of identifying and selecting FMIS for improvement has been
developed. Whilst the project has improved overall water availability in the assisted schemes, and there has been
some increase in cropped area and cropping intensity (in most schemes spring and winter cropping is now
possible), there has been only a marginal overall increase in crop yields. This is attributed to a general inability of
the project to improve in-field water management, and in the circumstances a reluctance of farmers to introduce
intensive production technologies. In particular, fertilizer application rates remain well below recommended
levels. The design of NISP recognized the need for improved agricultural extension in FMIS, and indeed provided



                                                          - 4 -

funds for the Department of Agriculture to provide such services. It was also envisaged that additional extension
needed for schemes in 11 NISP districts would come as a result of the Bank- supported AREP (IDA-29770) that
was approved in 1997 and implemented along with NISP. The AREP was only partially able to disseminate
improved technology in the FMIS areas.

         Another concern relates to the fact that some 20% of the improved schemes have had to have a second
round of expenditure to make good works that became non-operational after the first round of assistance due to
natural disasters (land slides/floods) or other factors. Reliable data are not available on the actual expenditure per
scheme, however the average expenditure at US$600/ha, was substantially lower than the US$1,000/ha anticipated
at appraisal. This has been attributed to unit costs for construction in Nepal Rupees being much lower than
anticipated at appraisal. The second round of assistance was used mostly to remove the bottlenecks in the canal
sections to make the schemes function better and deliver water. The need for these follow-up rehabilitations
clearly shows that the current appoach of FMISs being considered as a one-time rehablitation and hand-over
process with the DOI being out of sight after the turn-over of the schemes to the farmers is simply not working.
Some repair works will likely require DOI support and, hence, it is essential to have an institutional mechanism of
the DOI in place at the field level which can readily respond to the requirements of emergency as well as major
maintenance works in terms of techncal and financial resources which are beyond the capabilities of the farmers.

         Under this sub-component it was planned to develop and expand the area of tubewell irrigation in the terai
by some 8,000 ha. The target for the area irrigated by deep tubewells, 4,550 ha, was exceeded by some 1,000 ha.
The new area irrigated by shallow tubewells at 435 ha was well below the appraisal target of 3,000 ha. The main
reason for this is the withdrawal of the generous subsidy (60%) for shallow tubewell installation in July 2000.

         At appraisal it was envisaged that the sub-component would be subject to extensive Monitoring and
Evaluation (see PAD Annex 2 page 42). However, the implementation and financing details of the proposed M&E
were not described and no base line surveys were made available to the mission as the survey reports are mainly
kept at the district offices. Following the MTR it was agreed that the District Agricultural Development Officers
(DADOs) under the guidance of Regional Agricultural Directorates (RADs) would be responsible for M&E of
improved schemes in their areas. It was also agreed that a Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (PBME)
Committee, chaired by the Regional Agricultural Director, would be established in each of the three western
regions, and would collate reports from the DADOs in the region. As part of the PBME process, seasonal crop
monitoring and annual impact monitoring were conducted in all project districts. Although PBME reports were
submitted, the monitoring indicators varied from region to region and not all regions submitted a full set of reports
for the project period. In the circumstances the PBME reports are of marginal value as a record of progress and in
determining project outcomes.

§        System Improvement and Farmer Turnover in Public Irrigation Schemes. There were substantial delays
with the award of the contract to the consulting engineers for the Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project (SMIP)
rehabilitation and improvement. At closure, full development of 11,500 ha, and partial development of a further
2,300 ha had been accomplished.         The reduction from the original target of 15,100 ha was due partly to
encroachment of the town of Biratnagar into the command area and the construction of a ring road, and partly to
an overspend on upstream Kosi River embankment works and repairs to the large Budhi aqueduct carrying the
main SMIP canal to the project area. In the developed areas, there has been an increase in winter and spring
cropping intensities, but only a modest increase in crop yields. Again this is attributed mainly to poor in-field
water control. However, as this was never a design consideration under the project, it cannot be seen as an
implementation shortcoming. There has been some success in establishing the structures and procedures of Water
User Groups and Water User Associations (institutional capacity building). However there has been almost no
regular improvement in the payment of irrigation service fees. This is of major concern as under the new
irrigation policy WUG/WUA are now responsible for the operation and maintenance of sub-secondary and
subsequent irrigation facilities. Without adequate funds the maintenance of these facilities in the future, as in the
past, will depend almost entirely on voluntary labour which may not be sufficient in all situations.

         The SMIP consultants were responsible for advising the SMIP project management on PBME.                    A
baseline survey was carried out and subsequently in the final year of the project a detailed M&E survey was done.


                                                         - 5 -

However, although a mass of data was generated, the analysis of the data is not very good. Under this
sub-component, as anticipated, some 5,000 ha of publicly managed irrigation schemes, other than Sunsari Morang
were handed over to farmers for them to maintain.

§         Infrastructure Support Development. There was almost no expenditure under this sub-component, as
other donors were providing similar facilities with much greater (>75%) subsidies. Whatever expenditure there
was, was included in individual FMIS scheme costs.

C.        Institutional Strengthening:

§         Local and international consultants were retained to assist the regional/district offices of the DOI
implement the FMIS sub-component, and to assist the Sunsari­Morang Project management design and supervise
the civil works needed for scheme improvement. In both cases, once recruited the consultants are reported to have
performed well.      Government agencies and water user organizations involved with the consultants report
benefiting from the on-the-job training provided, and there is some evidence that the capacity of DOI for similar
work has been strengthened, although some agencies consider that similar consultancy assistance would be needed
for a similar project in the future.

          Under this sub-component, contracted out to the FAO, limited funds (US$1.1million) were provided to
finance a demonstration program of `On-Farm Water Management' implemented by national consultants and
guided by the Land and Water Division of FAO. The programme had three main objectives. The first was
improvement of field structures (canals, turnouts, etc) beyond the main headworks, within the command area of a
FMIS.     The second was to demonstrate improved methods of in-field water delivery (e.g. furrows, and
measurement of the amount of water applied at each irrigation, and irrigation scheduling). The third objective was
to demonstrate improved crop production practices. The first and third objectives were addressed satisfactorily,
and the latter only partially, and the program was not fully able to demonstrate the real benefits that can be
achieved by better in-field water management. The mission was unable to obtain an explanation from the DOI and
the FAO for this failure; and has concluded that it is largely due to the lack of understanding of the importance of
agricultural matters within the DOI.

§         The Department of Hydrology and Meteorology established 146 new hydrometric structures, 190 rainfall
gauges and 6 agro-meteorology stations. This has brought the density of stations in the three western and central
regions close to the minimum recommendations of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). Detailed
water balance studies were undertaken of 77 river basins as required.             In addition, hydrometeorological
information system (HIS) has been established for the river basins of three western regions which was later
extended to the eastern and central regions also.

§         The Department of Agriculture undertook training programmes for farmers and extension staff in
irrigated crop production and water management, and organized a number of study tours in India and Bangladesh.
Some problems were reported in finding sufficient trainers to give courses in the country. In addition the project
provided funds to purchase mini-kits of seed and fertilizer to distribute to farmers for demonstration purposes.
Whilst farmers appreciate the chance such mini-kits give to try out new varieties, there is no evidence that they
have led to any sustained change in farmer practices. There was insufficient coordination between DOA and DOI
under this project activity.

§         Water User Associations, NGOs and CBOs. Under the project three NGOs, one in each of the western
regions were awarded a contract to provide training to members in establishing and operating a WUA. In
association with the District Irrigation Offices the NGOs also recruited Water User Association Facilitators
(WUAF) to mobilize and facilitate farmer training. In total 243 WUAFs were appointed. It is reported that
farmers benefited substantially from this training, and that some 70% of WUA now maintain records of
contributions for repairs and expenditure.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:




                                                         - 6 -

4.3.1     The ERR for the main irrigation models at appraisal and closure are shown in the table below. The
calculations are based on data collected from a commissioned survey of 22 FMIS, the SMIP Implementation
Completion Report (2003), a report compiled by the Technical Advisory Team (TAT) and mission estimates.

               Model                             ERR at Appraisal                   ERR at Closure
Hill, surface scheme (major)                           14.5%                            18.6%
Terai, surface scheme (major)                          19.2%                            21.3%
Groundwater (deep tube well)                         18.6-20.3%                         22.3%
Sunsari Morang                                          15%                              10.1%
Overall Project                                         15.3                         not calculated



4.3.2     Whilst the calculations for FMIS are very much in line with expectations at appraisal it is important to
bear in mind that average expenditure per scheme at US$600/ha was substantially lower than the US$1,000/ha
anticipated at appraisal. To some extent this lower expenditure compensates for the lower than anticipated
increases in production. On average yields for the main crops (rice and wheat) and hence incomes, increased by
about 20-55%, which is significantly lower than the increases (40 -144%) estimated at appraisal*. In the case of
SMIP the lower than anticipated ERR is due largely to cost overruns, especially for embankment works and the
Budhi aqueduct and the substantial shortfall in the area actually developed. The ERR calculations also do not
include the benefits accrued from provision of gravelled canal roads which provide road linkages to remote project
areas.

4.3.3     At appraisal the overall ERR was estimated at 15.3%. In the absence of reliable data on the actual
number of improved/rehabilitated FMIS at the mission time, and up-to-date status reports on their operation and
output it is not possible to calculate a realistic ex-post ERR for the project as a whole.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1     In view of the limited reliable M&E data generated by the project a survey of a selected sample of 22
FMIS sites was undertaken just prior to the ICR** as part of the ICR. The FIRR for the 22 sites ranged from
10-29%. This is close to the appraisal range of 15-19% for the terai FMIS. The highest rates were for those sites
close to urban centers and which were producing vegetables and potatoes. Most of the sites visited were surface
water schemes in the terai and inner terai and are easily accessible; and almost certainly they therefore represent
the better sites both in terms of engineering works and incremental output and benefits

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1     This is considered to be modest. Thus whilst it is reported that in the newly developed areas of SMIP
WUGs/WUAs have been established, to date these have not demonstrated any real responsibility for scheme
operation, which continues to remain almost totally a public sector responsibility, and as elsewhere in the scheme,
informal ad hoc groups of farmers do most of the essential maintenance work needed. An independent report***
suggests that at SMIP the WUG, representing farm holdings within a watercourse remain very weak, with no
formal institutional structure. At the next level in the hierarchy, the Water User Committees (WUC) which
represents all users of a sub-secondary canal and have primary responsibility for collecting Irrigation Service Fees
has little administrative authority. To a considerable extent this is due to the inability of DOI to enforce existing
regulations regarding payment of Irrigation Service Fees because in the past political pressures have been involved
on behalf of farmers, and because of the lack of clear understanding of where within the network WUC/WUG
responsibilities start.   The only body that seems to have a real substance is the Water Users Coordination
Committee (WUCC) at the top of the hierarchy. It is the only body legally able to maintain a bank account, and
the elected Chairman of the WUCC is usually very influential, but may not be in a position to equitably represent
the interests of all farmers. Indeed a number of these WUCCs are hired by the SMIP Board to undertake repair
works. Again it is important to recognize that the aspired for institutional development changes were optimistic



                                                            - 7 -

given the political situation in the area and the limited time and resources made available for this activity under
the project.

4.5.2     An improved system has been developed to assess, and select FMIS for improvement, and it is reported
that the system has been adopted within DOI. Only time will tell whether there has been adequate capacity
building within the DOI to continue this work in the future.




____________________________________________________________________________________________
_
* Obtaining accurate data on yeilds before and after a project of this type is very difficult, especially as such a wide range of
crops were involved. It is therefore important not to place too much emphasis on yeild estimates in assessing the projects
achievements.
** It was originally intended that this would be an intensive learning ICR, and that a beneficiary survey would have been
undertaken, that would have provided an opportunity to visit a number of FMIS sites and review in detail the rehabilitation
works and benefits arising. However in the light of the current insurgency in Nepal it was decided to revert to a core ICR, and
to use project funds to commission a small review of a selected number of sites to assess the quality and extent of the
engineering works undertaken and the resulting changes in farming practices. The consultant report by Upadhyay and Regmi
was submitted in June 2004. In view of the current insurgency only sites in a limited number of districts could be visited.
*** Pilot WUA Strengthening Program prepared by Mott Mac Donald under assignment to DFID June 2004.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

          The on-going civil disturbance in much of the country has hindered project implementation in some, but
not all, districts. In particular, it has made for great difficulties in Monitoring & Evaluation as senior government
staff are reluctant to travel into the rural areas of the project, many of which are under the control of the
insurgents. In some districts the insurgents seem to be in favour of irrigation, as a means of increasing rural
incomes, and have not prevented scheme improvement, even if they have discouraged M&E. Natural disasters
such as heavy rainfall, leading to flash flooding and landslides have resulted in damage to irrigation facilities,
especially diversion structures and canal sections in the mid-hills. It is not clear whether better designs and more
expensive civil works (diversion weirs) would have stood up to the pressures from flash flooding. This is especially
true in the Siwalik Hills where the geology is very fragile. Some authorities consider construction of permanent
structures in hill streams subject to flash floods as high risk anyway, and that it is better to encourage the use of
temporary and semi-permanent structures of local materials that can be rebuilt by the local community after a flash
flood.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

          The reorganization of the DOI, under the recommendations of Public Expenditure Review Commission,
led to the closure of the District Irrigation Offices, and the transfer of staff to Divisional and Sub-divisional
Irrigation Offices. Initially, this has made it much more difficult for farmers in the hills to contact the DOI for
assistance. It has also made the provision of support by DOI more difficult as the lines of communication and
transport distances between FMIS and the DOI are now much greater than before. It is however important to
realise that civil service reform has been an objective of the Govenment as well as the donors, including the World
Bank, for many years and should in the longer run lead to more efficient use of limited government resources of all
departments including the DOI. It is expected that devolution of authority and resources to the local bodies and
implementation of Irrigation Policy (2003) which particularly calls for capacity building of local bodies and users'
associations to ensure their effective participation in the planning, construction, and management of small and
medium irrigation systems will close the perceived communication gaps and will also bring about greater
organizational efficiency in the longer term. In addition to this development the frequent change of Director
General (DG) and the Project Coordinating Officer (PCO) within the DOI, (there were at least 5 changes of DG
during the project) resulted in inconsistent leadership at the top. The removal of the STW installation subsidy had



                                                            - 8 -

a major influence, drastically reducing the uptake of shallow tubewells. However, again this was a policy taken as
a result of donor pressure rather than the government on its own. There was no decision on the O&M service fee
increase recommended by the O&M study except for increase of the fee to NPR 300/ha/annum for SMIP area.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

         Frequent changes of staff at the center and in the field resulted in delays arising from unfamiliarity with
project procedures. At the central level the change of the Project Coordinating Officer (PCO) and core office staff,
such as PCO accountant, contributed to severe concerns over the implementation and especially the financial
management of the project. There were four changes of PCO during the project. Within six months of the MTR,
and as part of the general Civil Service Reform Policy, the MOWR downsized the PCO from 17 to 7 staff, and
downgraded the position of PCO from Class I to Class II. This was with total disregard for a covenanted
agreement in the DCA to maintain key staff in position during the project, and led to substantial difficulties in the
maintenance of project accounts, and operating a proper tracking system for Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). It
took the best part of two years, until November 2002 before the staffing situation and the financial management
systems were improved. The failure to make effective an inter-ministerial Project Central Coordination Committee
does not seem to have adversely affected implementation in any way.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The table below provides a summary of the costs by the main components. Further details are provided in Annex
2.

      Component                 At Appraisal               At Closure            Actual/Appraisal (%)
                                (US$ million)            (US$ million)
A. Water Policy                       1.43                    0.51 a/                      36
B. Irrigation Scheme                 83.63                    73.86                        88
C. Inst. Strengthening               17.96                    16.49                        92
Total                              103.02                     90.86                        88
a/ Reduction in cost
due to bilateral
financing of this
component by CIDA.



         Of the total expenditure, IDA financed US$68.42 million (substantial disbursement of the US$69.96
million credit proceeds after the MTR cancellation). Contributions from HMGN (including beneficiaries) are
estimated at US$21.17 million.          There was considerable under-spending on tubewells and Supporting
Infrastructure Development.      Savings from these two categories were re-allocated for unforeseen additional
expenditure at Sunsari Morang and to increase the number of FMIS improved. Disbursement was extended for two
years in line with the extension of the project period. There were reported to be few difficulties with accessing
funds, especially HMGN funds for SMIP, and adequate O&M funds have been provided for SMIP as a whole over
the project period. The financial support for Component A - Water Policy was in fact augmented by a contribution
of US$0.77 million from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). This augmentation facilitated
the transfer of some of the project funds originally allocated to this component to Component B after cancellation
at the MTR.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The sustainability of the National Water Planning Unit in WECS is not certain, unless its technical
capabilities are strengthened either through recruitment of additional staff or consultants with the right skills and



                                                         - 9 -

unless the institution is assured of a stable technical leadership. As far as the FMIS are concerned sustainability
will depend partly on the capacity of DOI to make good any serious damage to infrastructure following natural
disasters, and partly on farmers' ability to make repairs for themselves. Under the new Irrigation policy, the DOI
is supposed to provide assistance if the repairs needed are beyond the means of the concerned farmers. Whilst past
experience suggests that DOI resources are never sufficient to meet all needs, it is also the case that most schemes
have an operational WUA of some kind, and that when HMGN resources are not forthcoming they can more often
than not make temporary repairs until more substantial help is forthcoming.              Overall, given that farmers'
livelihoods depend on keeping their schemes operational, it is considered that the sustainability of the FMIS is
highly likely.    The situation at Sunsari Morang is more complicated.              Under the present arrangements
WUGs/WUAs are supposed to raise revenue from Irrigation Service Fees (ISF) to operate and maintain structures
from the sub-secondary canals down. To date ISF revenue has been low, and there are no reasons to believe that
the situation will improve radically in the near future. In the past the scheme as a whole has been kept operational
by an adequate annual budget, approximately equivalent to US$24/ha, for the main and secondary portion of the
system provided by the DOI, and by farmers contributing labor and some financial resources for essential
maintenance work on an ad hoc basis in the tertiary areas. There are indications that, at least for the next financial
year, adequate O&M funds will be available. However, there is no certainty that HMGN will continue to provide
adequate O&M resources in the future and, at this stage, significant increase in ISF collection is unlikely given the
poor security situation. Since the prospects for peace do not seem to be bright at least in the immediate future, the
project sustainability is considered to be 'Unlikely.'

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         No serious difficulties are foreseen with transition to regular operations. As far as FMIS are concerned
the DOI is expected to resume its regular assistance program. The main change being a dramatic scaling back of
operations in the ex-NISP regions of the country unless there is a follow-up program. Similarly at Sunsari
Morang, a public scheme, now that essential major repairs and system modernization have been undertaken, the
developed areas of the scheme is expected to revert to regular day to day management by the SMIP project
management. These repairs should make it easier to manage the water distribution over the scheme as a whole,
and not just the incremental area of 11,500 ha. However, there would appear to be considerable scope to improve
scheme water management by improving operating arrangements below the sub-secondary and tertiary gates
supposedly managed by WUC/WUGs. In particular better control and measurement of irrigation water quantities
and intervals would facilitate more even water distribution throughout the scheme.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

         Preparation of FMIS component took place over a considerable period of time. The first identification
mission for FMIS was in 1987. As a result, Irrigation Sector Support Project funded by UNDP was implemented.
Irrigation Policy was formulated in 1992. To try out the provisions of the policy especially on farmers' willingness
to contribute and participate in the project implementation, improvements of a few hill irrigation projects were
carried out under the Irrigation Line of Credit with funds from Mahakali Irrigation Project II and Bhairawa
Lumbini Groundwater Project III. Preparation of NISP started in 1993 and the project was appraised in 1997 when
the Irrigation Policy was also revised. Such a long period of time for project preparation is however not
uncommon in Nepal and it allowed for in-depth analysis and review of some of the project components. However,
it did result in some loss of continuity in planning as far as both the Bank and HMGN was concerned. In
particular, it meant that the final design was for a sector wide type project rather than a more traditional discrete
project. This lack of discrete focus at least initially, made for some difficulties in implementation and supervision.
With hindsight it might have been better to have had two projects, one for Sunsari Morang and one for the other
components. Thus the early problems with consultant recruitment for Sunsari Morang led to delays in project
effectiveness that affected all components. Similarly the need to open a second special account, for Sunsari
Morang serves to confirm that this was in effect a separate project. It is perhaps significant that in the Bank
lending programme for Nepal in the early 1990s it was envisaged that there would be two projects. Towards the



                                                         - 10 -

time of appraisal however this was reviewed, and it was considered that partly for reasons of operational efficiency
only one project could be justified for the sector. It was also the view of the Bank that because both SMIP and
FMIS contained similar activities e.g. participatory irrigation management, the two should be combined. The Bank
also made it clear that if, as is reported to be the case, the HMGN and the DOI wanted funds for SMIP, this would
have to be as part of a sector project and not as a stand alone project. An additional design fault was the
dependence on a contemporaneous the Bank supported project (AREP) to provide essential agricultural extension
advice to FMIS farmers of 11 districts, rather than encourage HMGN to ensure that there was proper integraion of
agriculture support and irrigation in the government's own strategy and plans. The Bank was aware of this
weakness and it tried to overcome partly through the On-Farm Water Management sub-component.

7.2 Supervision:

          Formal supervision was regular, at approximately six month intervals for most of the project period. In
addition the task team based in the Bank office in Kathmandu provided almost constant advice and supervisory
assistance to the DOI between formal supervision missions.            The fact that the implementing agencies were
generally rather slow in responding to, and addressing, the key concerns (e.g. delays in appointing engineering
consultants for SMIP, and staffing of PCO) raised by the supervision missions, cannot be attributed to poor
supervision. On the contrary it is clear that without the pressure brought by the supervision missions many of the
implementation problems would not have been addressed and the project overall would not have met the PAD
targets. The Bank team pushed very hard on the financial management and quality control and raised these as
priorities in the aide memoires. Action plans were agreed to improve the system. Several interventions such as
preparing Accounts Manual, establishing system to record users' contributions, and conducting intensive training
to all technical and accounts staff along with follow-ups at DOI cost centers helped bring the project to satisfactory
completion. The quality of some of the supervision reports is a bit mixed, with inconsistencies in reporting and in
one or two cases confusion with dates. It is also disappointing that yields of rice and wheat, (the main crops in
both SMIP and FMIS) were not increasing as envisaged in the PAD. Although agriculturist and agricultural
economist were part of the supervision team throughout and they followed up on agrcultural aspects, because of no
substantial yield increase, it is difficult not to conclude that agriculture and irrigation development should have
been properly integrated both at the design and implementation stages so that adequate attention could have been
given to it along with engineering and financial matters. The Mid-Term Review was perhaps undertaken a little
soon after the project became effective. But the project team cannot really be held accountable for this as it was a
result of the Bank practice at the time that put a strict 5-year time limit on projects. After 2½ years it appeared that
the project disbursement would not meet expectations and SDR 8.0 million was cancelled after the MTR. Had this
money not been cancelled it might subsequently have been possible to complete all the project system improvement
at Sunsari­Morang.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

This is considered to be Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

          The government played a significant role during preparation. It facilitated the completion of a feasibility
study for the FMIS sub-components by RDC/CMSN in November 1995 and of SMIP III by Nippon Koei/Multi Dis
in June 1995. In addition the government prepared a Project Implementation Plan (PIP) in October 1997 and a
Resettlement Action Plan for SMIP in September 1997. At the time it was generally known that the DOI was short
of experienced staff and that this made for some difficulties in preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

          The main Government obligations were to establish the Project Central Coordination Committee and to
make available on time counterpart funds. As far as the former is concerned it would appear that the PCCC was



                                                           - 11 -

nominally established, but to have played little or no regular and effective role in project implementation. As far as
counterpart funding is concerned the government exceeded its obligations, although there were some of the usual
delays in fund release.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         Overall the performance of the implementing agencies is assessed as marginally satisfactory. Thus at
project closure, physical targets for both SMIP and FMIS have largely been achieved, the rates of return are
generally within expectations set at appraisal, and the project was almost fully disbursed, except for the amount
cancelled at the MTR. However these achievements depended very heavily on two teams of consultants that
assisted in both routine and special matters. Furthermore a lot of the implementation problems, such as the delays
early in the project can to a large extent be attributed to weak direction and management by the DOI, and for
nearly a third of the life of the project the supervision reports rated project management as unsatisfactory.
Concerns were raised early in the project life over the way some FMIS schemes were selected for incorporation,
often as a result of political pressures, and for most of the project the supervision missions drew attention to poor
financial reporting at both district and central levels for all the components except SMIP expansion and
rehabilitation. This poor financial management led to the accumulation of a considerable backlog of reimbursable
claims for much of the project and for the special account for the non-SMIP components being inactive for some
months in 2000. Audit reports were generally submitted more or less on time, but clarification of the final audit
report for SMIP was called for suggesting concerns over weak financial management and recording throughout the
project. Supervision mission reports towards the end of the SMIP period highlighted serious problems with NCB
and direct contracting far exceeding provision in the credit. Nevertheless, despite these shortcomings the DOI did
respond to the pressure from the Bank, and in the second half of the project appointed a very competant and
qualified senior officer as PCO and excellent accounts staff, as called for in the DCA, and the implementation
improved dramatically.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


This is considered to be marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


1.       The implementation experience of NISP has shown that in Nepal it is not administratively advisable to
include a stand-alone investment, such as SMIP, as part of a sector program.

2.       For complex design projects, financial management arrangements at least, have to be made simple during
the design stage. Simplification made in NISP by arranging two special accounts and two audit reports greatly
simplified the implementation and reporting.

3.       The failure of the DOA/AREP to deliver improved agricultural extension services to FMIS supported
under NISP, has clearly demonstrated the risks associated with relying on separate initiatives (projects) to provide
services needed for component implementation, especially where close coordination and proper integration
between the components are needed. The lesson being that the government must come up with a credible plan to
properly integrate agriculture and irrigation interventions and, probably, pilot such a well-coordinated integrated
project.

4.       In situations such as SMIP, where detailed engineering designs are required before a component can be
implemented, World Bank Board approval should be conditional on the pre-selection of design consultants and the
award of a contract upon signature of the Credit Agreement.

5.       Considerable difficulties remain with regards to the structure and operation of WUA on publicly managed
schemes like SMIP. The situation is a little better with regard to FMIS, but overall much greater attention needs to




                                                        - 12 -

be paid to this aspect of irrigation scheme management in future. Greater efforts must be made from the project
outset to convince farmers to make WUAs operationally effective.

6.          The identification and screening of FMIS for improvement and rehabilitation is a difficult process that
requires the use of an objective transparent process, such as those developed under the project. It is important to
recognize that such a process is time consuming, possibly taking 12 months or more, and it calls for the integrity of
all concerned.

7.          FMIS canals in the hills have been found vulnerable to frequent natural disasters. Although WUAs take
care of most maintenance works, some repair works will likely require DOI support. Therefore, an appropriate
institutional mechanism should be in place for proper technical backstopping as well as funding for major repair
works.

8.          The experience of M&E in SMIP compared to the FMIS sub-component demonstrated that it is not
possible to carry out effective M&E unless clear indications are provided as to how it will be funded, and how it
will be undertaken.

9.          In sector-wide projects like NISP it is very important that the position of Project Coordinator is filled by a
senior experienced officer, and that he or she is kept in post for as long as possible. Continuity of staff is key to
successful implementation of the project. A team of dedicated Project Coordinator and two accounts staff towards
the third year of the project helped bring improvements in the system converting from the unsatisfactory status to
the satisfactory status.

10.         The full benefit from improvement and rehabilitation of FMIS is only achieved when the investment made
includes the provision of technical advice on                     agriculture and water management, as well as the
construction of civil works. To achieve this requires the full cooperation between engineering and agricultural
experts in the design and implementation of stages.

11.         Greater attention must be paid to the agricultural activities and interventions under irrigation projects in
Nepal if the full benefits of investments in irrigation are to be realized. In particular it is essential that much
greater emphasis is placed on individual field water management efficiencies, such as was done under the OFWM
program of the project. Only when farmers have more reliable control of the water supply to their fields, cropping
intensity can be increased and crop diversification can take place.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Department of Irrigation has positive view regarding the lessons learnt from the implementation of the project, as reflected in the ICR, to
provide necessary guidelines for designing and implementing similar future projects in Nepal.

However, the sustainability of the project which has been rated "unlikely" in the draft ICR should be reconsidered for the following
reasons:

1. The government does provide assistance when the damages are beyond the financial capability of the farmers. However, owing to the
prevailing geolgical conditions of Nepal, often the newly constructed irrigation projects do face some problmes associated with instability
for two to three years after construction which may result in the necessity for the government to provide support. This could be the case
of only about 20% of the projects.

2. As per the revised Irrigation Regulations and Irrigation Policy, 2003, WUAs have been mandated to collect ISF from the users and use
such ISF for the operation and maintenance of irrigation systems. Therefore ISF is expected to rise considerably in the future which will
eventually increase the O&M fund of WUA and the O&M fund at the central level, thus ensuring the sustainability of the irrigation
projects.

(b) Cofinanciers:



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                                    - 13 -

10. Additional Information


10.1      There would appear to be a certain degree of misunderstanding as to what is meant by the term `On Farm
Water Management`. Most officials within the DOI and DOA seem to think that it refers to the management of
water within a command area as a whole, and that better OFWM refers to improving distribution structures (canals
and turnouts) within a scheme. It is also true that the OFWM pilot program has demonstrated that there are
benefits in terms of increasing the area that can be irrigated by improving within scheme structures.

10.2      However the term is more generally used to describe water management once it reaches individual field
boundaries, and refers to such things as in field water distribution, irrigation frequency and quantity or depth of
water applied per irrigation. Indeed the pilot program was supposed to focus on these aspects of OFWM, but was
unable to do so for a variety of reasons. In particular it is reported that DOI staff responsible for the OFWM
program were only interested in the engineering/construction aspects of the program to the detriment of
in-field/agricultural aspects. This is a pity as there is clear evidence from Nepal (e.g. privately owned shallow tube
wells) and elsewhere in the region that where farmers can control the amount of water applied to their individual
fields they usually adopt more intensive farming practices, in particular greater use of varieties that respond to
higher applications of fertilizer.

10.3      In the case of surface irrigation schemes such as FMIS or SMIP better OFWM requires the establishment
of tertiary watercourses or canals and or turnouts to facilitate the control of irrigation in individual fields, together
with better land leveling and the use of furrows to irrigate crops other than rice, jute, or wheat. This may not
always be possible for technical (land form) or social reasons (land that could be cropped has to be given for
permanent water courses). However where it is possible the returns to any investment in irrigation improvement
will be substantially higher than what has been achieved under NISP. It is strongly recommended than any
follow-up project should include a component to introduce on a large scale better in field water management.

10.4      To this effect it is encouraging that one of the key lessons learned under NISP is the need for irrigation
and agricultural technicians to work together to improve FMIS, and that the DOI has made provision to continue
the work of the OFWM as a regular activity of the department in future. It is however important that in future all
OFWM interventions include in field water management as well as scheme management, and the provision of
technical advice on crop production.




                                                           - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
By end of project, allocation of water       National Water Resources Strategy              National Water Resources Strategy
resources in percent realized for major      completed.                                     completed and approved by the Cabinet in
sectors like Irrigation, Water Supply,                                                      January 2002.
Hydropower etc., in each major river basin   National Water Plan and Water related
based on the strategy.                       Environmental Plan drafted.                    National Water Plan has been submitted to
                                                                                            the Cabinet after its approval by the Water
Emergence of consolidated National Water      A National Water Planning Unit created.       and Energy Commission.
Resources Strategy and Policy by December
2000 and adopted by HMGN.                    Hydrologic data collection, and management WECS has added professional staff to carry
                                             is initiated in three river basins.            out the functions of National Water Planning
                                                                                            Unit.

                                                                                            Hydrological study of 77 river sub-basins
                                                                                            completed. Hydro-meteorological Information
                                                                                            System (HIS) established for three western
                                                                                            regions.

Revised water resources sub-sector policies. Irrigation Policy revised to include new       Irrigation Policy, 2003 and Irrigation
                                             subsidy rates based on Irrigation Subsidy      Regulations, 2004 have been approved by
                                             Study.                                         the Government.

                                             Policy on Irrigation Service Fee revised based Irrigation Service Fee has been raised to
                                             on O&M and Water Charges Study                 Rs.300/ha/annum in the SMIP area.

 Irrigation systems rehabilitated serving on Rehabilitation works in about 47,803 ha
about 40,000 ha in three western regions by  (surface irrigation) and 5,539 ha
the end of Project.                          (groundwater irrigation) completed.

Increased cropping intensity by at least     Increase in cropping intensity ranged
40-50% by the end of project.                between 30% and 90%. Average increase in
                                             cropping intensity was about 55%.

Yield increased by 20% in rehabilitated      In FMIS areas yields increases have
schemes (above baseline) by the end of       occurred approximately in the range of
Project.                                     25%-45% for paddy, 25%-50% for wheat,
                                             40%-60% for potato and more than 60% for
                                             vegetable.

                                             In SMIP areas, yield increases ranged on
                                             average between 5%-20% for paddy,
                                             25%-50% for wheat, oilseeds by 25% and
                                             pulses by 45%.. Yields of potatoes and
                                             vegetables have nearly doubled.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
FMIS component Irrigation System             More than 53,000 ha of FMIS completed and
Rehabilitation completed with a rate of 7000 are being irrigated.
ha per annum
Handover to farmers O&M carried out for      Target revised at the MTR. In all about
about 15,100 ha of public irrigation (SMIP-3)12,500 ha developed and are being irrigated.
by the end of project




1End of project




                                                                  - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal       Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate           Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                  US$ million        US$ million
Water Resources Strategy & Policy(1)                                    1.25                 0.51                   41
Irrigation Sector Improvement
Farmers and Private schemes(2)                                         34.13                34.25                  100
Public Schemes                                                         34.73                39.61                  114
Other Infrastructure Support(3)                                         3.56                 0.00                    0
Institutional Strengthening                                            16.02                16.49                  103
Price Contingencies                                                     5.76



Total Baseline Cost                                                    95.45                90.86
 Physical Contingencies                                                 7.56
                            Total Project Costs                       103.01                90.86
                    Total Financing Required                          103.01                90.86

(1) CIDA financed the major part of the study.
(2) Latest estimate includes additional costs of 3.53 million to be submitted before the close of project account
     by 31Oct. 2004.
(3) There were some activities undertaken but costs were booked into the above two sub-components.
     US$8.01 million cancelled at MTR across board reflecting mainly the depreciation of NRs against US$.



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                               1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                    2            N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                           Other
1. Works                              24.27              34.26              6.08               11.24            75.85
                                     (20.63)            (29.76)            (5.59)             (0.00)           (55.98)
2. Goods                               3.92               1.24              1.05               0.00              6.21
                                      (3.23)             (1.11)            (0.43)             (0.00)            (4.77)
3. Services                           10.04               2.17              4.71               0.00             16.92
                                     (10.04)             (2.17)            (4.71)             (0.00)           (16.92)
4. Operating Costs                     0.00               0.00              4.05               0.00              4.05
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.11)             (0.00)            (2.11)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00               0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)
   Total                              38.23              37.67              15.89              11.24           103.03
                                     (33.90)            (33.04)            (12.84)            (0.00)           (79.78)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA credit. All costs include contingencies.



                                                      - 16 -

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
        contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
        operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
        units.

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2           N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
   1. Works                                20.23               31.16              5.08               9.69          66.16
                                           (18.23)            (26.33)            (5.59)             (0.00)         (50.15)
   2. Goods                                 3.92               1.24               1.05               0.00           6.21
                                           (3.22)             (1.11)             (0.43)             (0.00)         (4.76)
   3. Services                             10.04               2.17               2.23               0.00          14.44
                                           (9.11)             (2.17)             (1.40)             (0.00)         (12.68)
   4. Operating Costs                       0.00               0.00               4.06               0.00           4.06
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.11)             (0.00)         (2.11)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00           0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00               0.00               0.00           0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)
       Total                               34.19               34.57              12.42              9.69          90.87
                                           (30.56)            (29.61)            (9.53)             (0.00)         (69.70)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
        contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
        operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
        units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.          Bank         Govt.        CoF.      Bank    Govt.  CoF.
Water Resources Strategy         1.43        0.00                       0.49         0.02        0.00       34.3   0.0
and Policy
Irrigation Sector               64.54       19.09                      54.76        19.09        0.00       84.8  100.0
Improvement
- Farmers & Private             30.89        7.92                      25.68         8.56        0.00       83.1  108.1
 Schemes
- Public Schemes                31.57        9.08                      29.07        10.53        0.00       92.1  116.0

- Other Infrastructure           2.08        2.09                       0.00         0.00        0.00       0.0    0.0
  Support
Institutional Strength.         13.80        4.16                      14.44         2.05        0.00      104.6   49.3




                                                            - 17 -

  Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


  The directly quantifiable project benefits are the incremental agricultural production arising from a combination of
  institutional and management reforms and investments in irrigation infrastructure works through (i) increased
  cropping intensity; (ii) crop yield increases; and (iii) changes in crop patterns shifting to high value produce.

  Other major benefits identified but not explicitly quantifiable in the adopted analysis approach include:

  1.        Employment generation. The project covered a large component for irrigation infrastructure
  development. In such development work labor costs alone                   constitutes of at least 20-25 percent of total
  construction costs. And labor requirements continue even after the completion of construction of work due to the
  need for their operation and maintenance. The project will further create employment opportunity in terms of farm
  labor as a result of increased cropping                  intensity and change in cropping pattern that is geared
  towards labor intensive such as vegetable cultivation. Furthermore, the post harvest and processing            work
  will be substantial due to increased total agricultural production. Most of the incremental labor can be met by
  under-employed family labor.       However, some large farms will need additional hired labor and this can
  generate employment particularly for poor or marginal farmers.

  2.        Institutional and social benefits. The strengthening of WUA can be expected to lead to a better O&M
  and more equitable distribution of water for irrigation,          but it will also contribute to better cost recovery.
  Farmers in selected schemes appear to have kept operational the WUAs established in order to meet initial
  selection criteria. This should make it easier to operate and maintain schemes in the future as there are now some
  financial reserves to help pay for repairs that          cannot be undertaken by farmers providing only their labor.

  The analysis covers 4 major types of irrigation, including ground water (both shallow and deep tube wells), and
  surface irrigation systems in Terai, surface irrigation schemes in the hills, and one large public irrigation system
  SMIP-III. It is reported that a total of 373 FMIS sites covering over 46,250 ha in the hills and Terai have been
  improved, rehabilitated or expanded. However, reliable data on the nature cost, and extent of rehabilitation and
  increased output for all these sites is not available. In the circumstances the analysis has been done for model
  schemes for which data exists rather than for the aggregated total. Each of the three main model types is indicated
  in the table below:

                                Command Area (ha)          Investment Cost (NRs)        O&M             Cost
                                                                                        (NRs/ha/year)
Terai surface (FMIS)               350                        13,477,500                  740
Terai ground water (FMIS)           30                          1,421,353               3,140
  Hill surface (FMIS)              85                           5,051,606               1,000
SMIP III (FMIS)                 11,500                     1,906,833,770                2,175



  The government abolished the subsidy on urea in November 1999, and currently there are neither duty nor taxes on
  fertilizer imports. The Nepal's economy is quite open with little market distortions. The terai is closely integrated
  with Indian border markets, and movement of agricultural commodities and labor is virtually free from any
  restrictions. Prices of agricultural products in Nepal follow closely the market prices in India. Agricultural
  product is sold across the border when market prices are higher and are imported when the domestic prices are
  higher. Therefore, the domestic prices for rice, wheat and other tradable agricultural products reflect the
  international parity prices. For above reasons, no adjustment was made in converting financial prices to economic
  prices for both tradable and non-tradable inputs, outputs and labor.

  In calculating the project benefit from the incremental crop production, crop budgets for different types of
  irrigation prepared at appraisal have been recalculated to assess the profitability of individual crops. "With
  Project" and "without project" parameters are based on the recent impact assessment at a number of FMIS sites,



                                                            - 18 -

conducted by the TAT; a review commissioned by WB of a selected number of sites (22) to carry out an ex-post
cost benefit analysis of the investments and the incremental farm output resulting from the investments; the result
of the SMIP III M&E surveys reported in the SMIP III Implementation Completion Report and ICR mission's
estimates in consultation with farmers and local agricultural extension agencies.

Overall yield increases of the main crops - paddy and wheat averaged 33% and 27 % respectively, substantially
lower than the 55% and 67% anticipated at appraisal. Other crop yield increases were also much lower than
expected.    This is attributed to the failure to fully adopt recommended technical packages, in particular an
increased use of fertilizer and High Yielding Varieties. This in turn is largely attributed to poor in field water
management, and farmers' reluctance to use more fertilizer in such situations. Fertilizer availability improved
during the project period as a result of market liberalization. What yield increases there were can be attributed
mainly to improved availability of water throughout the growing season, especially in the winter and spring
seasons. There was also some increase in overall output per scheme as a result of increased cropping intensities.
These are estimated at 30-60 % very similar to the increases of around 40 % projected at appraisal.

The analysis has also adopted other key parameters including; (i) prices of outputs and inputs of on farm-gate
prices prevailing in 2004 used as constant prices; (ii) Opportunity cost of capital at 12%; (iii) Economic life of 15
years for private (groundwater) schemes, and 25 years for public FMIS and SIMP of 25 years; (iv) one year lag
for incremental production, with 3 year period for full development of ground water schemes, and 5 year period for
public schemes; (v) for SMIP III, Phase I, direct benefits only accrue from 11,500 ha newly developed areas,
benefits from 2,300 ha, which were not fully improved but received an improved supply of irrigation water, were
not included; and (vi) duties and taxes are not included in calculation. A pro rata (one third) cost of the Kosi River
Embankment works and the repair works to the Budhi aqueduct have been apportioned to the SMIP III costs as
without this expenditure there would not have been enough guaranteed supplies for the new command area.

The re-evaluation of the ERR for each type of irrigation scheme is summarized below. The economic rate of return
for 3 FMIS model/schemes and one SMIP III is estimated as follows (detailed analysis is on file).

Irrigation Scheme                                     EIRR (% )
Groundwater in Terai ­ FMIS                           22.3
Surface in Terai ­ FMIS                               21.3
Surface in Hills ­ FMIS                             18.6
Sunsari Morang Irrigation                             10.1


Two factors need to be taken into consideration in interpreting these calculations for the FMIS. In the first place
there is the substantial reduction in costs for rehabilitation works compared to those estimated at appraisal. In the
second place it needs to be recognized that the calculated EIRRs are based on the results obtained from the recent
impact assessments referred to earlier; and in particular reflect the best case scenarios under which all farmers in a
given scheme have improved cropping intensities substantially (e.g. from 160% to a maximum of 220%) and have
also increased yields as a result of the project. The calculations do not reflect what has happened on all FMIS sites
improved under the project, but demonstrate what has been achieved as and where rehabilitation was done well,
usually in locations with good access to markets.




                                                         - 19 -

- 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1987                      8    Economist(2);Financial.Analyst;
                                             Irrigation .Engineer;Credit
                                             Specialist;Unidentified(2)
              1988                    13     Economist;
                                             Irrigation Engineer(2);
                                             Agronomist; Financial .Analyst;
                                             Others(8)

              1989                      6    Agronomist; Irrigation
                                             .Engineer; Financial .Specialist;
                                             Unidentified(2); Others(1)

              1990                      4    Unidentified(2); Others(2)
              1991                      8    Financial Analyst;Irrigation
                                             .Engineer;Agronomist(2);
                                             Unidentified(2); Others(2)
              1992                      6    Irrigation .Engineer; Economist;
                                             Unidentified(2); Others(2)
              1993                      4    Economist; Environmentalist;
                                             Unidentified(2)

              1994                      2    Economist; Agriculturalist
              1995                      9    Economist; Irrigation Engineer;
                                             Agriculturalist(2);Others(5)
              1996                    10     Irrigation
                                             Engineer(2);Economist;
                                             Agriculuralist(2);Others(5)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1997                    22     Irrigation .Engineer(5);
                                             Economist(3);
                                             Agriculturalist(3);Financial
                                             Analyst;Environmentalist;
                                             Others(9)
              1998                    16     Irrigation Engineer(4);
                                             Economist(4);Agriculturalist(2);
                                             Financial Analyst(2);
                                             Environmentalist;Others(4)

              1998                      8    Irrigation .Engineer(2);
                                             Economist(3);
                                             Agriculturalist(2); Others(2)


 Supervision


                                              - 21 -

28/6-7/7/1998       6  Irrigation .Engineer;
                       Economist(2);
                       Agriculturalist(2);Others
Supervision(1)                                               S    S
27/10-15/11/1998    7  Irrigation .Engineer; Economist;
(PSR 12/09/1998)       Agriculturalist(2); Sociologist;
                       Others

Supervision(2)                                               S    S
28/5-15/6/1999      5  Irrigation .Engineer(2);
(PSR 6/12/1999)        Agriculturalist(2); Sociologist

Supervision(3)      9  Irrigation Engineer;                  S    S
4-16/12/1999           Agriculturalist(2); Sociologist;
                       Others(5)



Review of WRS       3  Irrigation Engineer; Water            S    S
9-15/1/2000            Resources(2)

Mid Term Review
4-25/5/2000         14 Irrigation Engineer(2);               S    S
(PSR 06/14/2000)       Economists(3);
                       Agriculturalist(3); Sociologist(2);
                       Financial Analyst;
                       Environmentalist; Others(2)
Supervision(5)
19/11-11/12/2000    9  Irrigation Engineer;                  S    S
                       Economist;Agriculturalist(2);
                       Financial Analyst; Others(4)
Supervision(6)
4-18/6/2001         6  Irrigation Engineer;                  S    S
                       Agriculturalist; Financial
                       Analyst; Sociologist;Others(2)

Supervision(7)      6  Irrigation Engineer;                  S    S
                       Agriculturalist; Financial
                       Analyst; Sociologist;Others(2)

Supervision(8)      6  Irrigation Engineer; Economist;       S    S
                       Agriculturalist(2); Others(2)
Supervision(9)         Irrigation Engineer;Economist;        S    S
 9-30/9/2002        13 Agriculturalist(2); Financial
                       Analyst;Others(7)

Supervision(10)     6  Irrigation Engineer;                  S    S
 5-30/6/2003           Agriculturalist; Financial
                       Analyst; Others(3)



Supervision(11)     7  Irrigation Engineer(2);               S    S
 16/11-5/12/2003       Agriculturalist; Financial




                       - 22 -

               (PSR 02/16/2004)                       Analyst;
                                                      Sociologist; Others(4)

               Supervision(12)                        Irrigation Engineer(2)                     S             S
                 June 2004


 ICR

               1-5/7/2004                       4     Irrigation Engineer(2);                    S             S
                                                      Agriculturalist; Economist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                          No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   217.00                             214.0 *
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          85.80                            71.9 **
  Supervision                                  386.11                               553.8
  ICR                                             8.00                              44.00
  Total
Note:
* Cost of FAO/CP staff inputs in 1987 and 1988 not included.
** There appears to be some confusion in the `legacy' system records. Thus in FY 98 and FY 99 some staff
 inputs are recorded as Supervision when in fact they were inputs for appraisal. In the absence of a more
 detailed breakdown the inputs for FY 98 have been listed here as part of the appraisal whilst the inputs for
 FY 99 have been listed as supervision.




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.      Project Appraisal Document Report No. 17104-NEP.
2.      Project Status Reports and Aide Memoire.
3.      Project Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation Study Consultancy for SMIP III (Phase I) Volume 1
Main Report April 2003 NEDECO, DHV, SILT,                Consolidated Management Services, and Masina
Consulting Engineers.
4.      Nepal Irrigation Sector Project. Project Completion Report Volume 1 Main Text and Volume 2,
Attachments. TA Team Kathmandu June 2004.
5.      Consultancy Services for Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project Stage III (Phase I) Implementation
Completion Report. NEDECO et al June 2003.
6.      NISP On-Farm Water Management Pilot Program Project Completion Report June 2004.
7.      Agreement between HMGN (DOI) and FAO concerning support to NISP On­Farm Water
Management Sub-Component UTF/NEP/053/NEP                 April 1999.
8.      Final Report ­ Part 2B Pilot WUA Strengthening Program Nepal. June 2004 Mott MacDonald,
Cambridge UK under assignment to DFID, 1          Palace Street London SW1E 5HE.
9.      Impact Assessment Study Report on On-Farm Water Management Pilot Program, Dr. Indra Lal
Kalu et al January 2004.
10.     Irrigation Policy, 2006BS (2003 A.D.) Ministry of Water Resources Department of Irrigation.
11.     Development Credit Agreement Credit No. 3009-NEP between Kingdom of Nepal and
International Development Association December 1997.
12.     NISP, Review of Irrigation Schemes Rehabilitation Performance. Report of Field Review. S.K.
Upadhyay and R. Regmi, June 30, 2004.




                                                   - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation

1.         Introduction

The Nepal Irrigation Sector Project was conceived to develop the 'Water Sector' of Nepal with a
comprehensive National Plan incorporating various components related to Water Resources in Nepal. Its
components consisted fo (i) Water Resources Strategy Formulation Phase-II Study, (ii) Irrigation
infrastructure development, and (iii) Institutional Strengthing of Department of Irrigation, Department of
Hydrology and Meterology, and Department of Agriculture. The primary goal of the project was to
improve the productivity and income of the subsistence farming community. Poverty Alleviation has been
the key mandate behind its goal through the improvement of the agriculture sector by promoting efficient
irrigation, thereby increasing production in irrigated agriculture.

The Main Component of the NISP was based on the successfully completed Irrigation Line of Credit (ILC)
program that ended on 15 July 1997. An ILC pilot project intiated the sector approach to irrigation
development in the Western Development Region in 1989. The Pilot Program was followed by the
full-scale ILC program.

'Demand Driven' and 'Participatory Approach' in accordance with the Irrigation Policy 1992 (Revised
1997) were the key elements of the project involving beneficiaries in all stages of project implementation
including cost sharing, design and construction activities. As initiated under the ILC, NISP continued to
finance viable private and public irrigation systems in the three western regions of Nepal. Systems were
eligible for funding when written demand and financial commitment for cost sharing were made by
beneficiary farmers and investigation showed that the subproject met feasibility criteria. Viability of each
prospective subproject was assessed by specific technical, economic, social and environmental criteria. A
set of procedural guidelines has been enforced to select and implement only subprojects that are viable on
Social as well as Techincal Grounds.

The institutional strengthening componenet supported the Department of Irrigation, Department of
Hydrology and Meteoerology and Department of Agriculture by training, supporting operational and
logistic costs and studies on related issues of Operation and Maintenance Cost Recovery, Irigation Subsidy
and revision of Irrigation Policy.

The Water Resources Strategy Formulation Phase II Study has prepared an integrated approach in the
overall mangement of Water Resources for various sectors such as Water Supply, Irrigation, Hydro-power,
Idustrial needs and other sectors. The project has assisted in the development of a consolidated Water
Policy and National Water Plan.

2.         Project Objectives

2.1        World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Objectives

Based on the Country Assistance Strategy Objectives of the World Bank (updated November 25, 1997) the
project has been prepared to contribute in three key areas:

(a)        Poverty Alleviation through increased production in irrigated agricutlure

(b)        Effective utilisaion of public resources by gradually transferring O&M responsibility from



                                                     - 27 -

public to the private sector; and

(c)        Enhance participation of the private sector, NGOs and farmer-beneficiaries in the investment
decision process and systems' ownership

This approach has been envisaged to encourage private investment with greater assurance to users to have
control over natural resources management.

2.2        Project Development Objectives

In order to meet the base targets, the develiopment objectives of the Nepal Irrigation Sector Project have
been quoted in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) as follows:

l To assist the Government in planning and utilising its water resources in a harmonised, effective and
    sustainable manner
l To increase productivity and sustainability of irrigation systems on about 59,000 ha of land in the three
    Western Regions and Eastern Region (SMIP) (based on the successful pilot experience in teh Irrigation
    Line of Credit).

2.3        Project Components

NISP was comprised of three major components: (i) the finalisation of an on-going Comprehensive Water
Resources Strategy and formulation of a Consolidated Water Policy; (ii)implementation of a first time-slice
of a long term irrigation sector investment in viable private and public irrigation systems on about 59,600
ha of land; and (iii) institutional strengthening to support the Government's new focus on carrying out the
progressive turnover of operations and maintenance (O&M) responsibilities to user organisations and on
strengthening its technical and istitutional capacity in water data collection, planning and management of
irrigated agriculture.

NISP was supported by a Development Creadit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal and th World
Bank/IDA (Credit Number 3009 NEP) dated 18 December 1997 for a total of SDR 58,700,0000
(equivalent to about US$ 80 million). The credit became effective on 17 Septmber 1998.

3.         Assessment of Project Objectives and Design

Poverty Alleviation is still a key concern of the Government of Nepal and even more so following the
effects that the insurgency has had on the country. Targeting agricultural development, in which sector
most of the poor people are involved, directly tackles the problem of poverty where it matters most.
Improvement of esixting irrigation systems is a cost effective way of increasing productivity and hence
household income, borne out by the PBME surveys carried out by the DOA component and the impact
studies recently carried out on a number of irrigation schemes assisted by NISP. The studies show a
considerable increase in cropping intensity (from about 130% to over 190%), particularly during the winter
season and high economic internal rates of return (ranging from 20-40% in sample schemes).

Development of schemes in more remote areas also show benefits in encouraging more people to stay in the
areas and work in agriculture and growing ood where it is needed. Economically, growing food where it is
required, rather than transporting it on the back of porters for several days, shows high rates of return. In
more accessible areas, provided market access is readily available, crop diversification and production of
higher value vegetables creates greater farm income.


                                                     - 28 -

The bottom-up approach, encouraging farmer involvement from the beginning of the scheme improvement
and enhancing their sense of ownership has been crucial to the success and sustainability of the
improvement to schemes. Given the level of involvement of the farmers and their dependence on irrigation
water to increase farm production, their active concern to participate in system operation, management and
maintenance is very clear in most schemes taken up by NISP.               By ensuring that the farmers have
responsibility for O&M of irrigation schemes the Government is relieved of this responsibility and the
beneficiaries themselves bear the cost, as well as share the benefits. Obviously, due to the nature of the
environment and climate in Nepal, there will always be a need somewhere every year for the Government to
be called upon to help with major disasters.

Under NISP, NGOs were invlolved in a trail process to assist the farmers in the development of their water
users' associations and to encourage their involvement in teh development process. Although there were
some setbacks in the process, the general assessment was that it was very successful and that with some
improvements it should be expanded in a future program of irrigation development. The idea of recruiting
and training a WUA member from the community in irrigations and WUA development was invaluable in
that all information and training provided remained within the community, so that even after the program
ended, this could still benefit the community.

The development of a National Water Resources Strategy and a National Water Plan is an important
achievement of the project. Water being one of Nepal's major natural resources and the increasing demand
on the available wate due to an expanding economy and growing population, mean that a clear-sighted plan
for the utilisation of water is essential for the country's future development.

4.         Assessment of Implementation and Operational Experience

A number of problems have arisen during the project, some of which were at least partically overcome
during implementaion and lessons can be learned from this experience.

4.1        Technical

The inclusion of carry over projects from ILC resulted in a major distraction of effort and reduction in the
potential benefits of the project. Many of these schemse were of dubious merit and by their nature were left
over from ILC due to various difficulties of technical or political nature. The selections process followed
by NISP using the Procedural Guidelines meant that poor value projects were largely eliminated from te
project. Those remaining to be completed under NISP have been delayed largely due to the insurgency and
the Government plans to have these schemes completed within FY 2004.05 using its own resources.

Even with the process and procedures provided by the guidelines being followed, there were still some
technical problems arising. Partly this is due the decentralisation of survey and design process to the
district offices, many of which are still remote and difficult to reach. This meant that a new young engineer
appointed to a remote district office had no peers or senior officers to discuss design problems with, and the
resulting design was sometimes inappropriate. A process of orientation training, both on the basic design
principles for small hill schemes and the use of the design manuals as well as the Procedural Guidelines,
would help in this regard. All new appointees to the program should have an orientaion course beofre
being posted to their offices.

Submission of design at an early stage rather that a day before a RAAC meeting would also allow the MIT
and TA teams time to review and improve designs. Although it will be difficult due to the continuing


                                                       - 29 -

remoteness of some sites, it does seem to be essential that some design review process is required beofre
designs are finalised.

4.2        Financial

NISP has had considerable problems with financial management. Given the nature of the project with
almost 100 cost centres, there were always going to be difficulties in financial matters. A financial
management manual was not prepared until well on in the project and in many cases, accounting staff
seconded to NISP were not literate in English and had difficulty in understanding the World Bank's
requirements. It would be advisable to have a financial officer on the TA Team to assist with the initial
setting up of an accounting manual and procedures and preparation of training materials (district level staff
should be able to work and SOEs should be available in for them to work with). The Financial Officer
should carry out initial training for the central and regional level staff, who should then take on
responsibility for training the junior staff in the Divisional/District officers. All accountants appointed to
work on the project should have orientation training on the accounting procedures and use of the manual
before being posted to their offices.



5.         Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank

The World Bank set in place routine monitoring missions at about six months intervals. In addition, during
the period of the project there was a Bank decision to decemtralize their operational procedures and the
position of the Task Manager for the project was transferred to a staff member in the Bank's Nepal Office.
These procedures have had a good impact on the project, the regular review missions picking up problems
and dealing with them before they become out of hand. Having the Task Manager on site has meant that
whenever urgent issues arouse, the Task Manager could make a site visit if necessary and also deal more
quickly with problems.

Regular meetings and communications between the Bank, the DOi, the Co-ordinator and the TA Team have
always been useful in guiding the project and the staff engaged on NISP. This is a much-improved
situation than was in the past and that still occurs on some Bank projects where the Task Manager is not
based in country.

Further inputs from the bank on procurement and financial management would be diserable to try to
eliminate those problems that have occured on NISP. Provision of training on procurement and finances
should be a regular feature of Bank activities, and such training should be carried out on a refresher basis
during the life of a project.




                                                     - 30 -

- 31 -

