Page  1
CONFORMED COPY   
CREDIT NUMBER 3009 NEP
Development Credit Agreement
(Nepal Irrigation Sector Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 18, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3009 NEP 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1997, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, 
having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
Page  2
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
 (c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“DHM” means the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Science and Technology; 
(b)
“DOA” means the Department of Agriculture of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Agriculture; 
(c)
“DOI” means the Department of Irrigation of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Water Resources;
(d)
“Irrigation Scheme” means a specific irrigation development project in 
the Project Area comprising either rehabilitation works of an existing surface and 
ground water irrigation scheme, or construction works for a new groundwater irrigation 
scheme, including construction of pipeline conveyance and distribution systems which 
meet the principles and criteria set forth in the “Procedural Guidelines for Surface 
Water and Ground Water Irrigation Systems” dated June 24, 1997 of the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Water Resources; and “Irrigation Schemes” means two or more of such 
schemes; 
(e)
“Nepal Rastra Bank” means the central bank of the Borrower, established 
and operating pursuant to the Nepal Rastra Bank Act, 2012 (1955), as amended from time 
to time; 
(f)
“NRs” means Nepalese Rupees, the currency of the Borrower; 
(g)
“Part A Project Area” means selected cultivable command areas in the 
Western, Mid-Western (except Dailekh, Surkhet, Banke, and Kalikot districts) and Far 
Western Development Region; 
Page  3
(h)
“Part B Project Area” means selected cultivable command areas served by 
the Sunsari Morang Irrigation System in the Morang District of the Eastern Development 
Region;
(i)
“Project Area” means both the Part A Project Area and the Part B Project 
Area together;
(j)
“Resettlement Framework” means the Borrower’s policies and procedures 
concerning land acquisition and resettlement set forth in the Report on the 
Resettlement Action Plan of Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project: Stage III dated  
September 1997; 
(k)
“Sunsari Morang Irrigation System” means the cultivable area of about 
58,000 ha. of the Chatra main canal irrigation scheme located in the Borrower’s 
administrative districts of Sunsari and Morang; 
(l)
“SMIP” means the Borrower’s Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project III carried 
out in part under Part B of this Project; 
(m)
“SMIDB” means the Sunsari Morang Irrigation Development Board established 
by the Borrower’s Sunsari Morang Irrigation Development Board Order, as amended, 
issued pursuant to Section 3 of the Borrower’s Development Board Act, 2013 (1956), as 
amended; 
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(o)
“Subproject” means an Irrigation Scheme to be carried out under Part A of 
the Project, and located in the Part A Project Area, which meets the principles and 
criteria set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; and
(p)
“WUA” and “Water Users’ Association” means the beneficiary  organizations 
established, or to be established, pursuant to paragraph 1, subparagraph (f) of 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement respectively for the purposes of assisting in carrying 
out construction, operation and management of public and private irrigation systems 
including ground water irrigation systems in the Project Area. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty-eight million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 58,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Nepal Rastra Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on  May 1 and November 1 in each year. Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to 
paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of 
the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing  
May 1, 2008 and ending  November 1, 2037. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on November 1, 2017  shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
Page  5
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
engineering, agricultural, environmental, financial and administrative practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than nine months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, unaudited Project accounts and financial 
statements 
for each fiscal year certified as to their 
accuracy and authenticity 
by an independent auditor 
acceptable to the Association; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
Page  6
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions. 
(a)
the Borrower shall have appointed a project consultant for Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement for the purposes of assisting the Borrower in design and construction 
supervision of Subprojects in the Part A Project Area; 
(b) 
the Borrower shall have appointed a project consultant for Part B of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement for the purposes of assisting the Borrower in design and construction 
supervision of SMIP; and
(c)
that a farmer organization division with objectives, functions and 
staffing acceptable to the Association has been established under SMIP. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
His Majesty’s Government of Nepal
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:
Telex:
ARTHA
2249-NEP
Kathmandu, Nepal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  7
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ Lava K. Devacota 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert Drysdale 
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
    % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
(a)
under Part A
  18,240,000
75%
of the Project
(b)
under Part B
  17,800,000
75%
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
   1,210,000
75%
of the Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of 
(a)
under Part A
1,241,000
local expenditures (ex-
of the Project
factory cost) and 70% 
of local expenditures 
(b)
under Part B
     564,000
for other 
items procured 
of the Project
locally
(c)
under Part C
   1,955,000
of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ training
Page  8
and studies
(a)
under Part A
   1,877,000
100%
of the Project
(b)
under Part B
   2,463,000
100%
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
   7,390,000
100%
of the Project
(4)
Operating Costs
80% of expenditures
through July 15, 1999
(a)
under Part A       916,000
55% of expenditures
of the Project
through July 15, 2001;
and 25% of expenditures
(b)
under Part B
     182,000
thereafter
of the Project
(c)
under Part C
     442,000
of the Project
(5)
Unallocated            4,420,000
  __________
TOTAL
         58,700,000
                ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the following terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
“Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred for operation and 
maintenance of facilities, vehicles and equipment used for Project implementation; 
utilities, office supplies and other recurring office expenses of the Project 
executing agencies; and salaries and allowances for Project staff; for the purposes of 
this sub-paragraph, “Project staff” means the staff retained by the Borrower after the 
date of this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000, may be  made in 
respect of Categories 1(a), 2(a) and 4 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for irrigation development pilot projects agreed with the Association and 
which have been approved and are on-going under the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater 
Irrigation III Project (Credit No. 2144-NEP), on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after July 16, 1997; and
(b)
under Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) unless the Subproject for which such 
expenditures are incurred has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and has 
been approved by the Approval and Coordination Committee and the DOI Director General. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods under contracts 
costing no more than $100,000 equivalent each, (b) works under contracts costing no 
more than $200,000 equivalent each, (c) services under contracts costing no more than 
$50,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $10,000 equivalent for 
Page  9
employment of individual consultants respectively, (d) Operating Costs, and (e) 
training, and studies under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: 
1.
Assist the Borrower in planning and utilizing its water resources in a 
harmonized, effective and sustainable manner. 
2.
Increase productivity and sustainability of irrigation systems on about 59,600 
ha. of land in the selected districts of Western, Mid-Western, Far-Western and Eastern 
Regions based on the successful on-going  experience.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rehabilitation, Improvement and Development of Small- and Medium-
Scale Public and Farmer-Managed Irrigation Schemes in the Part A 
Project Area 
(1)
Carrying out rehabilitation, improvement and development of small- and 
medium-scale farmer-managed Irrigation Schemes on 39,500 ha.. 
(2)
Rehabilitation and transfer of management to users of small- and medium-scale 
public irrigation systems on about 5,000 ha.. 
(3)
Development and strengthening of infrastructure, including construction and 
repair of farm roads and erosion protection for irrigated land and environmental 
protection works. 
(4)
Strengthening the capabilities of the regional mechanical workshops through the 
provision of equipment including spare parts. 
(5)
Construction of District Irrigation Offices.  
(6)
Carrying out pilot Irrigation Schemes for integration of  irrigation water works 
with small scale hydropower and rural water supply, and carrying out pilot water 
management in selected Irrigation Schemes. 
(7)
Provision of support for Regional and District Irrigation Offices.
Part B:
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Sunsari Morang Irrigation System   
(1)
Rehabilitation and improvement of the main canal of the Sunsari Morang 
Irrigation System. 
(2)
Rehabilitation and modernization of secondary canals and related structures, 
drains and inspection road networks in the Part B Project Area. 
(3)
Development of distribution networks by construction of subsecondary and 
tertiary canal systems on about 15,100 ha. in the Part B Project Area. 
(4)
Construction of about 5.5 km Kosi Flood Embankment on the east bank of the Kosi 
River. 
(5)
Training and provision of consultants’ services for technical and institutional 
capacity building in project implementation for DOI staff and beneficiary WUAs. 
(6)
Carrying out of minor works necessary for proper operation and maintenance of 
the developed Sunsari Morang Irrigation System.  
(7)
Strengthening of DOI staff and beneficiary farmer associations and local 
non-governmental organizations in management transfer (tertiary canals to users) 
process through training.
Page  10
Part C:
Institutional and Water Policy Development Support. 
(1)
Developing a national Water Resources Strategy, through provision of technical 
assistance. 
(2)
Strengthening, and provision of support for, office logistics, planning tools 
and transport facilities for the Borrower’s  national water planning unit. 
(3)
Carrying out of a review of and, if necessary, revising subsector policies and 
regulations in the water resources sector to ensure their compatibility and 
consistency with the developed water resources strategy through provision of support 
including  studies and training. 
(4)
Institutional strengthening of DOI through provision of technical assistance to 
assist in carrying out detailed design, construction supervision and operation and 
management transfer for the Irrigation Schemes in the Project Area. 
(5)
Improving hydro-meteorological data collection, collation, and management 
systems in the Borrower’s Western, Mid-Western and Far-Western Regions through 
technical assistance and training. 
(6)
Strengthening of DOA and DOI offices in the Project Area through the provision 
of technical assistance for identification, design, construction, operation and 
monitoring of Irrigation Schemes.
(7)
Strengthening of DOI’s management information system and regional monitoring and 
evaluation systems through the provision of training and technical assistance. 
(8)
Strengthening of WUAs, non-governmental organizations, and community based 
organizations  through practical training and the provision of technical assistance. 
(9)
Institutional strengthening of  DOI, DHM, and DOA through the provision of 
technical assistance, including training, study tours and fellowships to staff. 
(10)
Carrying out of studies and applied research and development including 
preparation of feasibility studies of future Irrigation Schemes under the Project; 
basin hydrology studies; studies on subsidy policy in irrigation development; studies 
on operation and maintenance and cost recovery in public irrigation systems; 
groundwater monitoring works and studies, and other irrigation system improvement 
management studies.
(11)
Carrying out of environmental protection studies for Irrigation Schemes. 
(12)
Carrying out on-farm water management works in the Project Area.
*          *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Page  11
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic 
Contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding 
Specialized equipment and spare parts estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, 
and goods, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent for goods and $30,000,000 equivalent for works may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
3.
International or National Shopping 
Small equipment and livestock estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting 
Goods and works under contracts estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent 
per contract for goods and contracts estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract for works, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent in 
the case of goods and $1,000,000 equivalent in the case of works, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
5.
Force Account 
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of 
said paragraph of the Guidelines. 
6.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project shall be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
7.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
Page  12
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract: (i) for goods and works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more and to be awarded in accordance with the procedures 
specified in Part B of this Schedule; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more and to be awarded in accordance with the procedures 
specified in paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule; and (iii) each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and to be awarded in accordance 
with the procedures specified in paragraph 2 of Part C of this Schedule, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $10,000 or more, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
limited international bidding, direct contracting or 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  13
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for consultants under Part C of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for short term consultancy under the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for specialized studies and training under Part C of the Project shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$50,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Page  14
1.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
2.
Project Coordination and Project Staff
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain, throughout Project implementation, the Project Central 
Coordination Committee (PCCC) in the Borrower’s Ministry of Water Resources, the 
Project Implementation Committee in DOI, four regional Project Implementation Units 
and District Appraisal Committees, all with adequate number of professional staff with 
experience and qualifications and on terms of reference acceptable to the Association;
(b)
appoint by no later than December 31, 1997, through its Project Central 
Coordination Committee and SMIDB, all Project staff required to carry out the Project, 
all with skills, experience and qualifications and on terms of reference acceptable to 
the Association, and in accordance with organization and staffing schedules agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(c)
maintain at all times throughout Project implementation (i) a Project 
Coordinating Officer; (ii) Regional Directors for Part A of the Project; (iii) a 
Project Manager for Part B of the Project; and (iv)  senior technical and accounts 
staff (gazetted Class II and above),  all in adequate and sufficient number for 
Project implementation and all with skills, experience and qualifications and on terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association. 
3.
Subsidy Study and Operations and Maintenance Study
(a)
The Borrower, through the Project Central Coordination Committee and 
SMIDB shall:
(i)
carry out a comprehensive study on national irrigation 
subsidy policy (the Subsidy Study) in accordance with a 
time-bound action plan satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)
provide by no later than September 30, 1999, to the 
Association for its review and comments the Subsidy Study 
and a 
draft revised subsidy policy for national irrigation 
development in 
public and private irrigation systems (the 
Irrigation Policy) based 
on the Subsidy Study;
(iii)
revise the Irrigation Policy to take into account the 
Association’s comments (if any); and 
(iv)
implement by no later than April 30, 2000 new subsidy rates 
in accordance with the revised Irrigation Policy and in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association.
Page  15
(b)
The Borrower, through the Project Central Coordination Committee and 
SMIDB shall:
(i)
carry out a comprehensive national study on the cost of 
operation and maintenance of its public irrigation systems 
including the Sunsari Morang Irrigation System (the O&M 
Study), in 
accordance with a time-bound action plan 
satisfactory to the 
Association;
(ii)
provide, by no later than September 30, 1999, to the 
Association for its review and comments the O&M Study;
(iii)
revise, by no later than April 30, 2000, its water charges 
rates in public irrigation systems taking into account the 
results of the O&M Study and the Association’s comments 
thereon (if 
any); and 
(iv)
review the water charges rates every two years thereafter. 
4.
Water Charges Collection
The Borrower, through SMIDB, shall:
(a)
submit, by no later than July 31, 1998, a plan for water charges 
collection (the Water Charges Collection Plan) in the developed area of the Sunsari 
Morang Irrigation System determined in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the 
Association, and calculated at a rate which, in the opinion of the Association, is 
sufficient to cover the cost of operation and maintenance of the Sunsari Morang 
Irrigation System;
(b)
take into account the Association’s comments and recommendations on the 
Water Charges Collection Plan; and thereafter
(c)
implement by no later than April 30, 1999 collection on the basis of the 
Water Charges Collection Plan and exercise adequate and appropriate remedies against 
defaulting WUAs. 
5.
Water Users’ Coordination Committee Representative 
The Borrower shall appoint a member of the Water Users’ Coordination Committee 
for the Morang district as a member to SMIDB throughout the duration of the Project.
6.
Water Management
The Borrower, by no later than March 31, 1998 and in each year thereafter, shall 
implement a water operation and maintenance plan acceptable to the Association with 
budget and staffing arrangements all satisfactory to the Association, to improve water 
management in the Part B Project Area. 
7.
Resettlement
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out the resettlement and rehabilitation of the 
people affected by the pilot project area of SMIP in accordance with its resettlement 
action plan agreed with the Association.
(b) 
In respect of the remaining SMIP area, and by no later than March 31 in 
each year of Project implementation, commencing March 31, 1998, the Borrower shall 
prepare in accordance with the Resettlement Framework a resettlement action plan (the 
Resettlement Action Plan) relating to resettlement (if any) required by civil works to 
be carried out under the Project in accordance with its annual work plan for the 
following year of Project implementation prepared in accordance with paragraph 8 of 
this Schedule.
(c)
By no later than June 30 in each year of Project implementation, 
commencing June 30, 1998, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for its review 
and comment the Resettlement Action Plan for the following year; and
Page  16
(d)
By no later than August 31 in each year of Project implementation, 
commencing August 31, 1998, the Borrower shall promptly carry out, or cause to be 
carried out, the acquisition of land for the Project and the resettlement of the 
people affected by the Project in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan taking 
into account the Association’s comments (if any) thereon, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association. 
8.
Annual Work Plan
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 
February 28 in each year an annual work plan including updated Project cost tables, 
training and contracting plans and other matters as agreed with the Association and 
shall thereafter implement each work plan taking into account the Association’s 
comments. 
9.
Subproject Approval
By no later than December 31, in the first year of Project implementation and by 
July 15 in each year thereafter, the Borrower shall submit to the Association a list 
of Subprojects to be carried out in the following year which shall have met the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement and shall have 
been approved by the Regional Appraisal and Approval  Committee and/or the DOI 
Director General, as the case may be.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to US$1,500,000 the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 20,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
Page  17
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the  Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  18
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Principles and Criteria for Selection and 
Implementation of Subprojects under Part A
1.
Subprojects shall be selected, designed, appraised and approved on the basis of 
the following principles and criteria that they shall:
(a)
be located in the administrative regions within the Part A Project Area;
(b)
be responsive to a specific request by a Water Users’ Association;
(c)
be economically viable on the basis of a suitable feasibility study and 
provide for a rate of return of not less than 10% of the Subproject costs;
(d)
include a timetable for their construction period;
(e)
have a written agreement by the Water Users’ Association benefiting from 
the Subproject providing, inter alia, that the Water Users’ Association shall be 
involved in the planning, design and construction and be responsible for: (1) 
operation and maintenance of the Irrigation Scheme under the Subproject; and (2) the 
required contributions in cash or kind to the capital costs of the Subproject;
(f)
require that: (i) the Water Users’ Association benefiting from the 
Subproject be duly established and registered pursuant to the provisions of the 
Associations Registration  Act 2034 and/or Water Resources Act 2049 of the Borrower, 
as amended; (ii) the membership of the Water Users’ Association consists of all the 
farmer beneficiaries of the Subproject; and (iii) all officers and members of the 
concerned Water Users’ Association be direct beneficiaries under the Subproject;
(g)
include an environmental assessment, satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall comprise, among other things, remedial measures for environmental problems 
identified therein;
(h)
include a social assessment study, satisfactory to the Association; and
(i)
ensure that construction works for Subprojects shall not commence until 
at least fifteen percent (15%) of WUA’s agreed contribution has been made. 
2.
The cost of each Subproject shall be met by the Borrower, through DOI and by the 
respective Water Users’ Association, according to cost-sharing arrangements specified 
under the Borrower’s Irrigation Policy and acceptable to the Association.
