                                  Documentof
                              The World Bank

                                                   ReportNo.: 44438




              PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT



                                    NEPAL




                        IRRIGATION SECTOR PROJECT
                              (CREDIT 3009-NEP)




                                  June 30,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (WorldBank)

CurrencyEquivalents
Currency Unit =Nepalese Rupee
1996(July)               US$1=N R S . 55.7
2004 (January)           US$1=NRs.73.0
2007 (September)         US$I =NRs.65.8

Abbreviations and Acronyms

ADB              Asian DevelopmentBank
CAS              CountryAssistance Strategy
CDA              Community DevelopmentActivities
DFID             Department for InternationalDevelopment
DHM              Department of Hydrologyand Meteorology
DOA              Department of Agriculture
DO1              Department of Irrigation
ERR              EconomicRate of Return
EU               EuropeanUnion
FINNIDA          FinnishInternationalDevelopmentAgency
FMIS             Farmer-managedirrigation systems
HMGN             HisMajesty'sGovernment ofNepal
ICR              ImplementationCompletionReport(of the World Bank)
IDA              InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
IFAD             InternationalFundfor Agricultural Development
ILC              Irrigation Lineof Credit
ILO              InternationalLabor Organization
ISF              Irrigation Service Fee
ISP              IrrigationSector Project
MIS              Management InformationSystem
M&E              Monitoring andEvaluation
MoAC             Ministry ofAgriculture andCooperatives
NGO              Non-governmentalOrganization
NPC              NationalPlanningCommission
NPV              NetPresent Value
O&M              Operationand Maintenance
OMIS             OperationalManagement InformationSystem
PAP              Project-affectedperson
PPAR             ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SAR              StaffAppraisalReport
SMIP             Sunsari MorangIrrigationProject
UNDP             UnitedNationsDevelopmentProgram
VDC              Village DevelopmentCommittee
WUC              Water User's Committee
wucc             Water User's CentralCommittee
 WUG             Water User Group

 FiscalYear
 Government               July 16-June 15

 Director-General,Evaluation                             : Mr.VinodThomas
 Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (WorldBank)        : Ms.CherylGray
 Manager, Sector EhaluationDivision                      : Ms.MonikaHuppi
 Task Manager                                            : Mr.JohnHeath

 IEGWBMission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence inevaluation.



About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Banks self-evaluationprocess and to verify that the Bankswork is producingthe
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcoming studies or country evaluations;those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. Afler an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Riskto DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (includingensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities afler loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                   iii


Contents

PrincipalRatings        ...............................................................................................................    v

Key StaffResponsible            ........................................................................................................   v

Preface ..............................................................................................................................     ..
                                                                                                                                          vi1


Summary    ...........................................................................................................................    ix

1.     Sector Background                ................................................................................................   1
       Agriculture...............................................................................................................          2
       Water ResourcesandIrrigationinNepal ................................................................                                3
       Support for water Resourcesand Irrigation Development......................................                                         4

2.     ProjectDesign            ........................................................................................................   6
       Objectives. componentsand costs...........................................................................                          6

3.     Implementation             ....................................................................................................    10
       ImplementingArrangements.................................................................................                          10
       ImplementationExperience...................................................................................                        10
       Monitoring and Evaluation....................................................................................                      10

4.     ProjectRatings            .....................................................................................................    11

       Relevanceof Objectivesand Design                             ..................................................................... 11
       Efficacy.................................................................................................................. 15
       Efficiency      ...............................................................................................................    25
       Outcomes.............................................................................................................. -26
       Risks to Development Outcomes ..........................................................................                           27
       Safeguards ............................................................................................................ -27
       Bank Performance.................................................................................................                  28
       Borrower Performance..........................................................................................                     29

5.     Lessons     ..................................................................................................................     30



December 2007. Soon-Won Pak providedadministrativesupport.
This reportwas preparedby George T. K. Pitman(Consultant) who visitedNepal inNovember-

                                                 iv


Annex A Basic DataSheet
       .               ..............................................................................................        33

Annex B Nepal All Externally-fundedIrrigation and AgricultureProjects
      .       .                                                                                                      .........37

Annex C EconomicAnalysis
       .                  ..........................................................................................         39

Annex D BorrowerComments
       .                      ......................................................................................         41

                                                      V



PrincipalRatings

                                                    /CR*             ICR Review*                    PPAR

Outcome                                      Satisfactory            Moderately                 Moderately
                                                                     Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development Impact**            Substantial              Modest                        nr
Risksto DevelopmentOutcome                         nr                      nr                   Substantial
Sustainability***                               Unlikely               Unlikely                      nr
Bank Performance                              Satisfactory           Satisfactory               Moderately
                                                                                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Satisfactory           Satisfactory               Moderately
                                                                                               Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verifi the findings
of the ICR.
** As of July 1, 2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
*** As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.
nr = not rated



Key StaffResponsible

          Project                          Task                  Division Chief/            Country Director
                                    Manager/Leader               Sector Director

Appraisal                               Ohn Myint             Shawki Barghouti          Hans M. Rothenbuhler
Completion                        Shyam S. Ranjitkar             Adolfo Brizzi              Kenichi Ohashi


                                             vii


Preface

This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) on the NepalIrrigation
Sector Project (Credit 3009-NEP). The Project, estimatedat appraisalto cost US$103.01
million, was approvedinNovember 1997for an IDA Credit of US$79.77 million
equivalent. At mid-termreview inAugust 2000 the loan was reducedthrough
cancellation of US$S.O1equivalent because of slow implementation, reduction of unit
costs and project scope, and depreciation of the NepaleseRupee against the SDR. The
project closing date hadtwo extensions totaling 24 months inorder to complete physical
works delayedby the effects ofthe Maoist insurgency inthe Western, Mid-Western and
Far-WesternRegions. CIDA allocated US$0.77 millionthrough a parallel grant to assist
technical assistance for the water strategy component.Total project costs at project
closure inJune 2004 (excluding the CIDA grant) were US$90.86 million of which IDA
provided US$69.10 million equivalent. The government (including the contribution from
communities) contributed US$21.16 million.

This report is based on the review of the respectiveMemorandum andRecommendations
ofthe President and Project Appraisal Report, credit and legal documents, project files at
the World Bank'sHeadquartersand inKathmandu, the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) and discussions with Bank staff inWashington and Kathmandu.

An IndependentEvaluationGroup (IEG) mission visitedNepalinNovember-December
2007 to discuss the effectivenessof the Bank's assistance with the Government,
developmentpartners, implementing agencies, and beneficiaries. The cooperation and
assistance of central government officials, management and staff o f implementing
agenciesand other parties concerned are gratefully acknowledged.

The project was selectedfor assessment to informthe IEGglobal evaluation of
agricultural lending. Irrigationhas longbeenused as a vehicle to expandthe agricultural
production base inNepal and facilitate intensification of land use. The Bank has assisted
Nepal indeveloping its irrigation for the last 20 years andthis sector project provides an
opportunity for an assessment of the effectiveness of the last phase of that lending.

Following standardIEGprocedures, copies ofthe draft PPAR were sent to government
officials for comments. These comments are included inAnnex D.


                                              ix


Summary

Nepal's principalinternational partnersfor irrigationdevelopmenthave beenthe World
Bankandthe Asian Development Bank.Sincethe 1970sthe World Bank has approved
13 credits totaling $355 million for irrigation-specific projects andthe Asian
Development Bank has approvednine credits totaling $160 million. Inthe late 1980sa
long-term strategy for the sector and a shorter-term public investment program promoted
key reforms through a Master Plan for the irrigation subsector. While it acceptedthat
government-management of large irrigationprojects should continue, it was proposed
that water user groups should be createdto take full responsibility for the operation of
smaller schemes by year 2000, and this became the centerpieceof government's
irrigationpolicy. To provide incentives for turnover to beneficiaries the government
agreedthat small schemes would be rehabilitated, priority being given to a demand-
driven approachpreconditionedon formation o f water user groups, financial viability of
operationsand maintenance, and cost-sharing arrangements.

In1988governmentrequestedassistance from its external funding partnersto scale-up
the approachthrough an irrigationsectorproject (ISP). Boththe World Bank andthe
Asian Development Bank took this as an opportunity to supportreform ofthe small and
medium-sized irrigationsubsector that accounts for the bulk ofNepal's irrigation
infrastructure and serves the poorest communities. Within the Bankthe ISP concept was
pilotedwith technical assistance from the UNDP through the IrrigationLineof Credit
that disbursedUS$16 millionthrough two ongoing Bank-assistedprojects. Successful
outcomes ledto the full-fledged Irrigation Sector Project (1997-2004). The ISP focused
on assisting development ofNepal's water resources strategy and Water Plan, and
improvingthe productivity of farmer-managedsystems inthe three western regions of
Nepalandthe Sunsari Morang IrrigationProject (SMIP) ineasternNepal.

The outcome of the ISP is rated moderately unsatisfactory. The objective to enable
sustainabledevelopment and managementofNepal's water resourcesby means of a
comprehensive and integrated national water managementpolicy was andremains
substantially relevant to Nepal's needs. The objective to increasethe productivity and
sustainability of irrigationsystems was and remains highly relevant. Irrigation is a
mainstay of the agricultural economy and is second only to fertilizer as a source of
agricultural growth. Bank sector work in 1991 found that "in the short to mediumterm
agriculture presents the highest potential for growthand poverty alleviation, as the vast
majority ofthe people, and especially of the poor, live inrural areas and draw their
livelihood from agriculture. Agriculture remains crucial; other sectors are far less
relevant." However, the decision to includethe unfinishedSMIP within the ISP reduced
the focus on developing non-governmental andprivate sector institutions to assist
demand-leddevelopment and measures to ensure irrigationscheme sustainability in
remote areas. This inclusion also overlooked the fundamentally different design and
institutional issues of the public and private irrigation subsectors.Institutionally the SMIP
component supportedareplication of the irrigation agency's top-down approachthat
retrofitted beneficiary participation after completion of design and construction of the
secondary distributory canals.

                                              X



The ISP ledto adoption o f a new National Water Strategy in2002 and a National Water
Plan in2005. Despite these significant achievements, and the passing o f legislationto
enable their implementation, Nepal still lacks the capacity to engage inintegrated and
comprehensive water resources management. Intersectoral coordination remains almost
nonexistent and each sector agency continues to planwater resources management and
development independently.

Agricultural production from irrigation systems improved. While links with agricultural
extension were plannedthese were generally ineffective due to poor cooperation and
coordination. ISP's physical targets for irrigated area improvement or extension were
exceeded for farmer-managed irrigation schemes but not met for either groundwater
development (because o f reduction o f subsidies) or public irrigation schemes. Within the
large-scale public SMIP overall cropping intensity increased but there was no discernible
impact on crop yields. Incontrast crop yields o f ISP's small-scale farmer-managed
schemes increased substantially, How far these outcomes are attributable to the project,
however, i s unclear. There is no "without project" counterfactual and monitoring and
evaluationwas modest at best. Exogenous factors benefitingthe project outcomes
includedtrade policy reforms that increased agricultural exports, commodity market
deregulation that encouraged private sector participationand investments, particularly for
fertilizer, and upgraded and extended road networks that improved access for inputs and
marketing.
The objective o f increasing the sustainability o f irrigation systems was partially achieved.
Insmall-scale schemesfarmers provedwilling to contribute as neededincashor kindfor
both capital expenditure and for group-managed operations and management. This was
not the case for the large-scale public SMIP. Although irrigation service fee recovery
increased greatly duringproject implementationit plummetedto less than two percent of
billings when project-financedtechnical assistance ceased. This was a repeat o fthe
pattern inearlier Bank-financed support for public sector irrigation. Current levels o f
public budget for operation and maintenance meet less than half o f requirementsand
deferred maintenance in SMIP i s accumulating.
Overall efficiency is rated as modest. Despitethe investment inthe water resources
management and policy component an additional US$4 million is now needed to
complete the capacity-building exercise under the approved follow-on project. Incontrast
the cost ofthe small-scale farmer-managed scheme was less thantwo-thirds o f
expectations and the area covered was substantially inexcess o f appraisal targets.
Economic rates o f return(ERR) based on a small non-random sample range between 18
and22 percent. The findings on efficiency for SMIP are less sanguine andefficiency is
ratednegligiblefor agriculture productivity improvements. The ERR for the public sector
component i s less than one percent. The overall ERR o f the project, weighted by
component costs, i s 10percent.
Risks to development outcomes are rated as substantial. The National Water and Energy
Commission has insufficient staff with a broader planningperspective, remains focused
on hydro-power and electricity generation, andneglects inter-sector coordination.
Institutionalrisksto the development effectiveness o f small-scale farmer-managed
schemes are modest. However, physical risks are high-mainly         from landslides,
earthquakes and floods. The risks to the SMIP are substantial. Sedimentationwithinthe

                                                xi


irrigation system sap farmers' willingness to cooperate on maintenance and interfere with
timely and adequate supply o f water. The Department o f Irrigation's focus on the civil
engineering to the detrimento f institutional development poses a substantial risk.

Bankperformance is ratedas moderately unsatisfactory. Project design was flawed
becausethe importance o fpublic sector institutional reform was overlooked and the mix
o f components lowered effectiveness. More attention should have been given to
monitoring and evaluation. Borrower performance i s also rated moderately
unsatisfactory. Once the project hadbeen agreed government performed poorly insetting
upthe higher-levelcoordinating committees-which          proved to be ineffective. The
national irrigation agency remains a top-down organization that tends to set performance
targets for public sector irrigation schemes without buildingsustainable local capacity,
particularly farmer organizations, to undertakeoperation and management o f irrigation
projects. Poor financial management was a systemic problem.

Experience with this project confirms five IEG lessons:
      A more comprehensive approach is requiredto maximize benefits from improved
      agricultural water management. Water i s only one input; institutional development
      and capacity buildingare equally important, as are agricultural inputs and
      marketing.
      Donors need to work together more effectively, with each working to their
      comparative advantage, the aim being to achieve a harmonized sector-wide
      approach that avoids duplication and contradictions. InNepal this assessment found
      while it made sense for donors' projects to be geographically differentiated this was
      at the expense o f sector-wide coordination and mutual learning.
      D o not lose sight o f project beneficiaries. Too much attentionto water resource
      policy andmanagement deflected attention from the need to reform public sector
      management o f large-scale irrigationprojects and improve service-delivery. As a
      result the longer-term sustainability o f the public irrigation subsector and farmers'
      livelihoods dependent on it are at highrisk inNepal.
      Non-governmental organizations are generally better at working with farmers than
      government to increase the productivity o f small-scale farmer-managed irrigation
      systems. The project clearly demonstrated that partnershipwith NGOs enabled
      agricultural productivity improvements inremote locations where the poorest rural
      communities are located.
      Greater attention should be given to monitoring and evaluation to ensure informed
      policy-making and decision-making. InNepal the scope o f data collection and
      storage o f data on agricultural input and output performance information
      significantly contracted during the transition from public to private service
      provision.



                                                                Vinod Thomas
                                                               Director-General
                                                                  Evaluation


                                                     1


1. Sector Background

1.       A landlocked mountainous country, Nepal is the poorest country inSouthAsia
andthe 12* poorest inthe world. The population is almost evenly split betweenthe
mountainshillsandthe low-lying flat Terai plains bordering Indiathat comprise about a
quarter of the total landarea. Four-fifths ofthe population is rural. Nepal's population
grew from 19 millionto over 27 million inthe period 1991-2005 at a meandecadalrate
of 2.3 percent; the urbanpopulation doubled. Over the same period per capita annual
income increasedfrom US$200 to US$270 andthe incidence of absolute poverty
declinedfrom 42 percentto 31percent.' Recentanalysis indicates that as muchas one-
thirdto one-half ofthe reduction inthe overty rate is due to the increaseinremittances,
rather then increasedlocal productivity. Even so, 35 ercent of the rural population
                                               Y
remainedbelow the absolute poverty line in2003-04. Ruralpoverty has causeda steady
                                                                P
exodus ofpeople from the mountains and hillsto the Kathmandu valley andthe Terai, as
well as fueling emigration. Despite substantialinvestment inuniversal education since
1971literacy remains low -only 49 percent ofthose aged 15 or older were literate in
2004. Dependence on foreign aid and grants has systematically increased. In 1975-80
foreign aid provided 48 percent o f development expenditures; by 1990 this had increased
to 71 percent.

2.       Natural resource limitations, mountainousterrain, floods and landslides, andthe
paucity of all-weather roads-all         combined to constrain the development of markets for
agriculture and indu~try.~      Poverty and caste discrimination increasedsocial exclusion.
Agricultural sector productivity almost stagnatedandrural growth was slow. Together
these factors contributed toward technological backwardness, rural illiteracy, and an
unstablepolitical situation that dampened economic growth.

3.       Political instability has hindereddevelopment since the early 1990s.Nepal
became a constitutional monarchy and multiparty democracy in 1990. After internal
dissent caused a hung parliamentthe Nepali Congress government called a general
election in 1994, after which the Communist Party of Nepal (UnifiedMarxist-Leninist)
emerged as the biggest party. Resistance to radical reform inparliament causedthe more
extreme Maoists to start a `people's war` in 1996to endthe constitutional monarchy, a
movement fuelled by public spending that privileged ruling elites and urban centers,
gender, ethnic and caste-basedexclu~ion.~Over the period 1996-2004the insurgency
affected most rural areas, particularlyinthe mid- and far-western regions, and killed


1. 2008. World DevelopmentIndicators database. Millennium Development Goals. The data for 1994/95 is
an estimate while the latter data are drawn from the Nepal Living Standards Surveys of 1999/2000and
2003/04. The reduction inheadcountpoverty rate
2. CentralBureauof StatisticsIWorld Bank/DFID/ADB. 2006. ResilienceAmid Conflict.
3. 2006.Nepal inFigures.Central Bureauof Statistics,National Planning Commission Secretariat.
4. There were about 10,109 km of roads in 1996 of which 5,871 kmwere surfaced.The pace of roadbuiling
increased during the late 1990sbut stagnated after 2002 because ofthe Maoist insurgency and conflict in
rural areas. By 2006 the national road network was 17,279 km of whichjust 4,9 11kmwere black-topped.
Even so, 14 ofNepal's 75 districts do not have roads suitable for motor vehicles. There is only 27.3 km of
railway connectingNepal to India's rail network and ports.
5. DFIDIWorld Bank.2006. Unequal Citizens: Gender, Caste and Ethnic Exclusion in Nepal.

                                                      2


about 10,000 people. And inthe period until2001there were 11short-lived coalition
governments. The assassinationof the monarch in 2001 andthe breakdown of the cease-
fire agreement with Maoists in2003 led to further instability and government by royal
decree in2005. The civil unrest created by this action finally unifiedpoliticalparties into
a coalition that resolvedto end the monarchy andrewrite the constitution-actions
approved by parliamentinDecember2007. For Nepal's development partnersthe
continuous political uncertainty since 1996 raisedquestions about the most effective
assistance modalities given the weakness of His Majesty's Government ofNepal
(HMGN),aproblem mademore difficult by the constitutional crisis after 2003.

4.       Recenteconomic performance has beenpoor. Liberalization ofthe economy,
following several IMF-Bank stabilization and structural adjustment operations inthe late
 1980s and early 1990s, helpedboost annual GDP growth to 5 percentbetween 1996and
2001.6But from 2001 to 2006 growth slowed, averaging only 2.1 percent per year.
Agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, is mostly subsistence-oriented (except inthe
Terai). While accounting for about 80 percent of employment inthe mid-1990sand one-
halfof GDP, agriculture accounted for three-quarters of employment and about 38
percent of GDP in2005/06. Industrial development is severely constrainedby the small
domestic market andIndiancompetition and produces mostly low-technology consumer
goods, such as carpets, garments andhandicrafts. Over the period 1994-2006industrial
output shrank from 9.3 percentto 7.5 percent of GDP, dampenedby the increasingly
risky investment climate. Similarly, after growing steadily inthe early 1990s, tourism fell
sharply after 2001 because ofthe insurgency. Inresponseto the civil conflict and the
prospect of better opportunities abroad, as many as one millionNepalesetook overseas
work. Remittancesaccounted for 12 percentof GDP in2004.7

Agriculture

5.       Agricultural growth over the period 1970-1990averagedonly 3 percent or about
half apercentagepoint faster thanpopulation.* Halfof the cultivated area is inpaddy (the
main irrigated crop), which grew at a scant 1.3 percent a year. Incontrast, the growth of
wheat, potato and sugarcane accelerated. Agriculture remains primarily subsistence-
oriented. Only a small proportion of farms use modern technology, and most major crops
and other agricultural products have low yields. Ofthe four major crops except for sugar-
cane, Nepal had higher yields than all other SouthAsian countries inthe early 1960s, but
has had comparatively lower yields since the early 1990s.Moreover, the 81percent of the
active labor force employed inagriculture was responsible for only 45 percent of GDP in
1990/91-the      value addedper capita by other sectors was five times that of agriculture.



6. Non-agricultural sectors grew at 6.3 percent in 1996-2000,agriculture grew more slowly at 3.2 percent.
7. The Economist Intelligence Unit, 2007. The share ofhouseholdsreceiving remittancerose from 23
percent in 1995-96to 32 percentin2003-04.
8. Hh4NG. 1995.NepalAgricultural PerspectivePlan. This plan was extremely important as it showedthat
key agricultural statistics generatedby the Departmentof Food and Agricultural MarketingServices and
the agricultural GDP generated by the Central Bureauof Statistics were inaccuratefor the period 1975-
1992. Inparticular revisions by the National Planning Commission reducedthe rate of agricultural growth
over the period 1980/81to 1990/91from 5.03 to 2.30 percentfor food grain crops and for cash crops from
5.37 to 2.15 percent. Thus the share of agriculture inGDP fell from 52 percentto 45 percentin 1991/92.

                                                    3


6.       By 1990/91the crop sector contributed about 60 percent of agricultural GDP.
With all landpotential fully developedgrowth was driven mainly by increaseduse of
fertilizer and irrigation. Fertilizer accounted for about 44 percent of the growth in
agricultural GDP, irrigation 15 percent and varietal improvement less than one percent.'
Officially reported fertilizer use grew at the rate of 12 percentper year from 1980/81to
1992/93." Even so, inper hectareterms the level of application is low comparedwith
other countries inthe region: one-third to one-quarter that of Bangladesh, Pakistan, and
Sri Lanka and 10percent that of China.' At present yields, rice, wheat and maize alone
                                                '
are estimatedto be removing 700,000 tons of nutrients annually.'2 Commercial fertilizer
was replacing little more than 10percent ofthat annual loss.

Water Resources and Irrigation in Nepal

7.       Nepal has abundant water resources capable of irrigating 8 to 10 million hectares
and providing43,000 M W ofhydropower. About 40 percentofthe nation's 2.6 million
ha of potentially irrigable lands are developed. Less thanone percent ofthe hydropower
potential is utilized andthis supplies 85 percent of national demand.l3Water for
domestic consumption is drawn from springs and streams inthe hilly areas and from river
diversions and groundwater inthe Kathmandu valley and elsewhere. Water quality i s
poor inand aroundKathmandu because of extensivepollution of rivers; and inparts of
the Terai because of the higharsenic content of groundwater. Development ofNepal's
rivers for irrigationis costly because of the large diversion structures neededto manage
the annual floods, exacerbatedby the large quantity of sediment these waters carry. India
needs to agree to any diversion of these trans-boundary rivers-a further complication.
Consequently, groundwater-based irrigationhas proved to be an attractive option inthe
Terai for boththe private and public sectors.

8.       IrrigationinNepal is broadly categorizedaccording to ownership and
management (public versus private schemes), to location (Hills versus Terai), and to
source of irrigationwater supply (surface versus groundwater). Private irrigation schemes
have long beendevelopedandmanagedby private farmers, and are classified as Farmer-
Managed Irrigation Systems (FMIS). The rest of the irrigationschemes are publicly
developedand managedby the Departmentof Irrigation(DOI).

9.       Nepal implementedits first public sector irrigationprojects inthe 1920swith
assistance from the Government of India. To this day Indiamakes expertise and finance
available to Nepal inexchange for water rights to the mainrivers-which                   serve the large
irrigation schemes inIndia. Even after construction of the Chandra Canal in 1928and
several later projects, the total irrigated area was still only about 25,000 ha in 1950.
Cooperation with Indiathrough the 1954Kosi Project Agreement enabled construction of


9. HMNG. 1995.Nepal Agricultural PerspectivePlan.
10. Data from the Agricultural Inputs Corporation. This only captures public sector sales, not those ofthe
private sector importers.
11. Total chemical fertilizer use in Nepal was 26 kgha in 1990, mostly nitratesand phosphorus.In
comparisonIndiaused 91and Bangladesh 101kgha.
12. HMGN. 1995. op cit., page 92.
13. In2004 the installed hydropower capacitywas 370 M W and an additional 240 M W is under
development.Together these will only utilize 1.6 percent ofthe potential.

                                                   4


the ChattraCanalthat suppliedwater to the SunsariMorangIrrigationProject ineastern
Nepal, while the Gandak Barrage-EasternCanal SystemAgreement of 1959underpinned
theNarayani IrrigationProject incentralNepal.

10.      Over the next 30 years government significantly expanded its investment in
irrigation to cover small andmediumsurface andgroundwater systems. More thantwo-
thirds oftotal irrigationlies inthe Terai, about aquarter inthe Hillsand less thanfive
percent inthe mountains. Inthe hills the mode is primarily gravity-fed traditional
irrigation systems owned and managedby communities or fanners, while inthe larger
valleys many systems were developedwith full or partial support of the government. Of
the 1.06 millionhaofirrigated land, governmentinvestment developedabout quarter
from scratchand a hrther quarter through upgrading community-owned schemes. The
balance comprised 0.32 million hadevelopedby fanners alone; and 0.14 million ha
developed with help from credits extendedby the NepalAgricultural Development Bank.
One-quarter of all surfacewater-basedirrigationis publicly-managed by DOI, the rest
privately by farmers and fanner's groups. Similarly, government managesone-quarter of
Nepal's 170,000 ha servedby mechanizedgroundwater abstraction.

11.      The design of large-scaleirrigationprojects was based on the Indianpolicy of
spreadingwater relatively thinly over large areas to provide insurance against drought for
wet-season(khariJ)crops. Distributionsystems of all government-financed projects were
developedonly partially14inthe expectationthat farmers would build water distribution
systems-in practice muchof the potential commandwent undevelopedbecause farmers
were unwilling or unable (for socioeconomic or technical reasons) to invest. As a result
only 71 percent ofpublic investment incommand area development is utilized, and only
38 percent of that has year-round irrigation." More recently, government has helped
finance the extension of distribution systems to the 50 ha level, as well as organizing
water users' associations and providingagricultural support services.16

12.     The dearth of agricultural inputs, and fertilizer inparticular, explains inlarge part
the slow growth of agricultural production and farmers' low productivity(paragraph 6).
This is part of the vicious circle by which low margins and insecurewater supplies
precludecollection of water user fees, jeopardizing adequate operation and maintenance
andthus reducingwater managementefficiency. Uncertainor unreliable water supplies
allied with low margins heighten risk aversion and lower the perceived benefits of
fertilizer and investmentsinimproved agricultural management.

Support for water Resources and Irrigation Development

13.     Nepal's principalinternational partnersfor irrigationdevelopment havebeenthe
World Bank andthe Asian Development Bank. Since the 1970sthe World Bank has
approved 13 credits totaling $355 million for irrigation-specific projects and the Asian



14. Thus farmers were responsiblefor blocks of 700-1,000 ha for the Narayani project and 200 ha for the
SunsariMorangproject.
15. HMGN. 1995.NepalAgricultural ProspectivePlan.ADB assistance(TA No.1854-Nep).
16. More recently the policy has beento extendirrigationinfrastructureto serve areas of 28 ha (chaks)
subdividedinto 4 ha subchaks and to upgradethe quality of support services.

                                                      5


Development Bank has approved nine credits totaling $160 million.l7Additionally, they
also provided credit for small-scale irrigation as components o f integrated rural
development projects. Other international agencies, including IFAD, EU, I L O and
UNDP, supplemented these efforts. The main bilateral agencies include the Kuwait Fund,
Saudi Fundfor Development, CIDA, Japan, USAID and several European countries.
Internally, the Agricultural Development Bank o fNepal assists development o f small
farmer-owned irrigation schemes. Irrigation development supported by the donor
community remained focused on new construction and expansion o f irrigation
infrastructures untilthe late 1980swhen reform was introduced to the agenda.

14.      Inthe late 1980sa Master Planfor the irrigation sector was formulated,
comprising a long-term strategy and a shorter-term public investment program.l8The
Planproposed several key reforms to management o f irrigation inNepal. While it
accepted that management o f irrigation projects exceeding 2,000 ha should stay with
DOT, it recommended that water user associations (WAS)should be created to take full
responsibility for the operation o f smaller schemes by year 2000. Devolution o f
management became the centerpiece o f the government's 1989 WorkingPolicy on
Irrigation Development. Ina major departure from past practice construction or
rehabilitationwould not start untilsufficient budget had been allocated to ensure
completion. And inan attempt to reduce the burden on the exchequer, subsidies on all
forms o f irrigation were reduced."

15.      To provide incentives for turnover the government agreed that small schemes
would be rehabilitated, priority being given to a demand-driven approach tied to
formation o f W A S ,financial viability o f operations and maintenance and cost-sharing
arrangements.20Beneficiary contribution was dependent on the size and the geographical
location. Conjunctive use o f surface and groundwater was recommended to supplement
water supplies for large public irrigationprojects with water shortages. Shallow tubewells
were to be developed on a demand-driven basis under the planning guidance o f DOI. A
more integrated approach to agricultural development was promoted. This included better
coordination among the government's irrigation, agricultural development and input
agencies to develop an integrated package o f inputs, credit and extension services, plus
training o f farmers inparticipatory management o f irrigation. This was complemented by
improving road access to market centers. In 1986, steps to test the practicality o fthese
reforms were initiated through the Irrigation Management Project with USAID-funded
technical assistance.

16.      In1988, findingfarmers receptive, the governmentrequestedassistancefromits
external funding partners to scale-up the approach through an Irrigation Sector Project


17. Annex C lists multi- and bilateralinvestment inNepal's agricultureand irrigation.
18. UNDP Planningand DesignStrengtheningProject(PDSP). Executedby the World Bank.
19. Farmer's contributionto the capitalcost of small and mediumprojectswould be inthe range 5 to 25
percent.Farmerswould bear all the O&M costs of small and mediumschemes and tubewells. Subsidies for
capitalcosts of would not be morethan 40 percentfor STW and 75 percent for DTW. DO1would no longer
collectwater charges on small and mediumschemes after their turnover to users. Total O&M costs of large
projects would be collectedfrom beneficiaries.
20. Priority was assignedto projects with the highest rate of economic returnthat hadto be at least 10
percent.

                                                  6


(ISP). Boththe World Bank andthe Asian Development Banktook this as an opportunity
to support reform ofthe small and medium-sized irrigation subsector that accounts for the
bulk ofNepal's irrigationinfrastructure and serves the poorest communities. Within the
Bankthe ISP conceptwas pilotedwith technical assistance from UNDP. An Irrigation
Lineof Credit (ILC) was created, disbursing US$16 millionthroughtwo (ongoing) Bank-
assisted projects.21The ILC tested proceduresfor introducing Farmer-ManagedIrrigation
Systems (FMIS) andturnover procedures for DOI's smaller projects and pavedthe way
for the fully-fledged Irrigation Sector Project scheduledfor 1991. The Asian
Development Bank (ADB) launchedits own IrrigationSector Program in 1989to cover
the introduction ofFMIS over 25,000 hausing slightly differentselectioncriteria. As far
as IEGcould determine these two approachesare implementedindependently with no
coordination or mutual lessonlearning.

17.     Successfulcompletion of these projects was followed by ADB's SecondIrrigation
Sector Project or SISP (1996-2002) and the World Bank's IrrigationSector Project
(1997-2004.) The SISP focused on constructing new farmer-managed irrigation schemes,
rehabilitation and groundwater development inthe central and easternregions. This built
on ADB's Community Groundwater Shallow Tubewell IrrigationProgram and IFAD's
Community IrrigationSector Project. Incontrast the World Bank's project focused on
assisting developmentofNepal's water resourcespolicy and strategy, and improvingthe
productivity of farmer-managed systems inwesternregions ofNepal andthe Sunsari
Morang Project ineasternNepal. This report provides a performance assessment of the
World Bank's IrrigationSector Project.

 2. Project Design

Objectives, components and costs

18.     The overriding goal was to assistthe government's water policy reforms,
including completion of the national water resources development planand measuresto
increasethe productivity of irrigated agriculture. Table 1summarizesproject objectives,
componentsand costs.

19.     The project's two original objectives were to :

    0   assist the government inplanning and utilizing its water resources ina
        harmonized, effective and sustainablemanner, and
    0   increasethe productivityand sustainability of irrigationsystems on about 59,600
        ha of landinselected districts of three Western and Easternregions.

20.     At mid-termreview the water resources strategy objective was scaledback to
improving sector policy and strategy-`assisting the government to utilize water
resourcesina harmonized, effective and sustainable manner' was seen to be too
ambitious an objective. This assessment is basedon the revised objective:


21. Credit 1924-NEP. 1988. The Mahakali Irrigation I1Project inWesternNepal (US$41.9 million); and
Credit 2144, 1990. The Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater IrrigationI1Project US$(52,6million.)

                                                7


         To enable sustainable development and management of Nepal s water resources
         by means of a comprehensive and integrated national water management and
        policy.

21.      Water Policy and Strategy. The water resources planning and harmonization
objective was to lay a foundation for sustainablewater resources managementthrough
integratedriver basinplanning. Specifically, the aim was to consolidate and standardize
the differingpolicies and approachespracticed bythe five Nepalesewater agencies.
Through its support for aNational Water Planning Unitthe project would increasethe
effectivenessof the National Water Development Council chaired by the Prime Minister.
It was expectedalso that the basin-wide approachwould assist development of
comprehensive planning for water and the environment and leadto better coordination of
external development assistancefor water development.

22.      Followingagreement on a Consolidated Water Policy the resultant Water
ResourcesStrategy was expectedto be completed during the third year ofthe project. All
existing policies, acts and regulations bearing on water would be reviewed, including
hydropower, irrigation, urbanand rural water supply and industrial waste water. The aim
would beto assess the compatibility of policies toward these sub-sectors and recommend
changes   .
23.      Harmonization of the development needs of eachwater sector with government's
medium-to long-term national planningwould provide the frameworkfor development
of the national water strategy. Subsequentlythis was to be followed by preparation of a
National Water Resources Development Planand a Water-Related Environmental
Management Plan for the short, medium, and long term. Important supporting activities
were: a review ofpublic irrigationinvestment subsidies(witha view to gradually
reducing them); a survey of the fiscal implications of the budgetary requirementsfor
operation and maintenance(O&M) of public irrigation systems, inlight ofjoint
beneficiary management; and cost-recovery policies. Given that grant funding could
potentially become available from bilateral donors the Bank agreedthat the technical
assistance support could be provided under parallel funding.22As a result of CIDA
support the project expenditure on this component was only 41percent of the appraisal
estimate.

24.      Irrigation Productivity. Support for increasedproductivity and sustainability of
irrigationsystems was aimed at boththe public andprivate sectors covering 59,600 ha
spread over 40 ofNepal's 75 Districts. Inarea terms, two-thirds was to be based on a
demand-driven model inwhich the beneficiary farmers contributed substantially to the
capital costs of new projects or rehabilitation either incashor kind: a "no-payment, no-
project" principlewas proposed. The target area for small andmediumschemes put up
for rehabilitation and improvement was to be 39,500 ha. However, these schemes were
mostly partly-completed subprojects (covering 21,995 ha) carried-over from the previous
IrrigationLineof Credit (ILC) program, selected as pilots for the demand-ledapproach.
The subprojects included31,500 haof FMIS inthe HillsandTerai and 7,500 ha ofnew


22. CIDA laterprovidedUS$0.745 million to finance internationalconsultantsto assist completionof the
water strategy and policy work.

                                                 8


and 500 haof rehabilitated groundwater irrigation. The subprojects were contingent on
the formation of a WUA (and members' willingness to contribute to capital costs); plus
evidence oftechnical, economic, social and environmental viability. Most of the FMIS

subprojects hadrudimentary water diversion and control facilities that were to be
upgradedwith permanent engineeredstructures.

25.      The remaining one-third of the project area was scheduledfor system
improvement and turnover of O&M, with a view to loweringthe fiscal burdenand
increasing local ownership.The selectionof land inthe public perimeterstargeted by the
project (15,100 ha or 75 percentof the area, absorbing 96 percent of the budget)-located
inthe EasternRegion-was         geared to rehabilitating the third stage of the Sunsari Morang
Project (as an extension of the Bank's earlier support for the second stage completed in
1995).23This involvedsubstantialengineering as well as support for institutional
developmentand capacity-building, Engineering included the rehabilitation and
modernization of main and secondary canals, drainage, associated inspectionroads, and
developmentof distribution networks at the tertiary level. Incontrast to SunsariMorang
111, this small component financed 5,000 ha of small andmediumpublic schemes inthe
hillsand Terai inthe three Westernregions for turnover to farmer O&M.

26.      InstitutionalStrengthening.The goal was to enablethe Departmentof Irrigation
(DOI) to become an agency responsiblefor planning, budgeting and facilitating
developmentby others, removing it fiom day-to-day involvement inconstruction work
andscheme O&M. Project support was aimed at buildingthe capacity ofthe DO1to
better planinfrastructure developmentand outsource operation andmaintenancethrough
greater involvement of farmers, the private sector andNGOs. This included substantial
technical assistance andtraining to aid short-listing anddesign of subprojects,
supervision and monitoring of quality control. The Department of Agriculture received
US$2 million to facilitate its assistance to irrigation subproject design and
implementation inareas not receiving support from the parallel Bank-supported
Agricultural Researchand ExtensionProject.24A small sum (US$0.86 million) was
allocatedto building the capacity of the private sector andNGOs inirrigationwater
planning and its management.

27.      Water resources management was also targeted for strengthening. A groundwater
monitoring system was to be installed by DOL Also, the Departmentof Hydrology and
Meteorology (DHM)was to be upgradedusing US$5.5 million to ensure that its data
management capability matchedthe needs of national water planning; and to enable
Nepal to meet its regulatory responsibilities as the most important upper riparian of the
Ganges and Teesta River Basins.




23. IEG. 1998.PerformanceAudit Report.Narayani I11IrrigationProject (Credit 1715-NEP), Sunsari
Morang IrrigationI1Project (Credit 1914-NEP) and Sunsari Morang Headworks Project (Credit 2430-
NEP.) Report. No. 18377.August 21, 1998.
24. AREP covered 14of the 40 districts ofNISP.

                                                    9


Table 1: Nepal Irrigation Sector Project: Objectives, components and costs

     Objectives                                  Components                                Project Costs
                                                                                           US$ millions
                                                                                         Planned
                    Water Policy
                    1. ComprehensiveWater ResourcesStrategy and Consolidated               1.25

                     0  Formulatea comprehensivewater strategy and consolidation
                        policy to address the issues, prioritize practicaloptions and
                        recommenda comprehensivestrategy for implementingthe
                        optimal developmentofNepal's water resources. The

1.To enable             formulationofthe strategy is expectedto be completedduring

sustainable             the third year ofthe project.

development and      0  Financethe review of government's subsidy policy inirrigation

managementof            developmentinvestment.
Nepal's water        0  Review operation and maintenance(O&M) requirements in
resourcesby means       different public irrigation systems and associatedwater user
o f a comprehensive     chargesto cover full O&M costs in light of thejoint
and integrated          management ofthe systems with beneficiaryfarmers.
nationalwater        0  Provideinstitutionalsupportto the Ministry of Water Resources
managementand           andNationalPlanningCommissionto establish a National
policy                  Water PlanningUnit at central level, procureequipment,
                        technology, transport and other facilities includingdevelopment
                        of computerizedmanagement informationsystems and
and                     geographic informationsystems.
                    2. Irrigation Sector Improvement and Development                      72.43     73.86
                        Rehabilitate, improveand develop small- and medium-scale
                        farmer-managedirrigation schemes including:                        34.13     34.25

2. To increase          o     rehabilitationand improvement of existingsurface water
                              systems covering31,500 ha inthe Hillsand Terai.

(a) productivity        o     rehabilitationand development ofnew tubewells schemes
                              on 8,000 ha inthe Terai, eachcoveringabout 10ha.

and                  0  Improvepublic irrigation systems andturn over all or part of the
                        O&M to farmers on 20,100 ha. This includes:                        34.73     39.61
(b) sustainability      o     improvementand rehabilitationofthe SunsaiMorang
                              PhaseI11irrigation system, construction of a 5.5 kmKosi
of irrigation                 flood embankment, and institutionaldevelopmentto
systems inthree               strengthenthe central DOI, and its project offices, W A S
Western and                   andNGOs inthe managementtransfer process.

EasternRegions          o     Financeturnover and/orjoint management of 5,000 ha of
                              medium-scale irrigation onthe demand-drivenprinciple.
                     0  Support InfrastructureDevelopment(farmroads, flood
                        protection, environmental management, and demand-led                 3.56       0.0
                        participatorymicro-hydropowerand water supply schemes)
                    3. Institutional Strengthening                                        16.02     16.49
                        Financeconsultingservices, training, office buildingsand
                        equipment, and limited incremental staff and O&M on a
                        decliningbasis for the DOI, DHMand DOA.
                                                        Physical and Price Contingencies  13.32
                                                                               Total Cost 103.02    90.86

                                                10


 3. Implementation

ImplementingArrangements

28.      The Ministry of Water Resources(MoWR) hadoverall responsibility for the
management of the project. An inter-ministerial Project Central Coordination Committee
(PCCC) chaired by the Secretary of MoWR coordinated inter-ministerial and inter-
departmental project activities relating to policy, budget and major procurement.The
Director-General Irrigationwas the Secretary of the PCCC. Within the MoWR the
Departmento f Irrigation(DOI) was the main implementing agency either through the
offices of its Regional Directors or the Sunsari Morang IrrigationProject Board headed
by its Project Manager. A central Project Implementing Committee was established
within DO1reporting to its Director-General. However, those components supporting
agricultural inputswere managedindependentlyby the Ministry of Agriculture.

29.      Activities related to the water resources strategy were subject to the direct
guidance of aNational SteeringCommittee. Day-to-day managementwas through a new
National Water Planning Unitthat reportedto the Water and Energy Commission
Secretariatto maintain its independencefrom line ministriesresponsiblefor water.
National and international consultantsplayed an important role inthis strategic planning
exercise.

ImplementationExperience

30.      Credit effectiveness was delayedby ninemonths andmost project activities were
slow to mobilize because of DO1inefficiencies. Project management performance was
ratedas unsatisfactory for almost one-third of project duration. There was little
supervisionby DOI's regional staff.25While many of these problems were substantially
rectified after mid-termreview the malaise was not fully resolved before the end of the
project. Implementation was also heldup by overnment's delay inappointing
consultants for supervision of key activities.2P

31.      Because of the slow progress the project was partially restructured following mid-
term review. The water resources development objectives were modified (paragraph 19),
dated covenants on studies andpolicy implementation were extended and about 10
percent of the Credit (US$S.Ol million) was cancelledbecause of cost savings. The
project was extendedtwice for atotal of two years to enable completion of works
affected by slow social mobilizationand the Maoist insurgency, and closed inJune 2004.

Monitoring and Evaluation

32.      Design. At appraisalthe aim was to establisha "scientific system of
M&E...incorporating all keyprocesses, input and output indicators, andimpact


25. World Bank. Mid-term Review. Annex 9, page 2.
26. For example the SMIP was implementedby aDesign Consultant appointedin 1999 who hadthe lead
role inplanning, supervisionand mobilizationof WUGs.

                                             11


parameters for monitoring progress inachieving development objectives." This would be
achieved by enhancing existing DoI's M&E systems. The exceptions were a special
project benefit monitoring and evaluation exercise (PBME) that would be undertaken by
the Department o fAgriculture for the FMIS schemes, andan impact evaluation o fon-
farm water management practices under the FA0 technical assistance effort. Generally,
the detail ofoutcome andimpact monitoringwas left to consultants. While the weakness
of M&Eo f DOI's inputs and outputs was recognized, particularly for financial
monitoring, attentionwas givento training and capacity-building to rectify only when
problems emerged. The modest list o f outcome indicators agreed at appraisal was
extendedand improved after mid-term review.

33.       Implementation. This varied considerably by component. DOI's management
information systems remainedpoor for much o f the project hindered by lack o f
modernization, computerization, poor coordination and inadequate staffing (paragraph
63.) Mid-termreview o f the DoA's PBME system revealed an absence o f standard
indicators and little uniformity indata collection methods, jeopardizing the creation o f a
baseline.

34.       Utilization. By highlightingthe causes o f slow implementation, the mid-term
review prompted a more thorough use o f M&E.But DO1continued to focus on counting
outputs: number o f schemes, areas irrigated; W A Sformed. Conversely, the M&E
systems developed by project consultants-while       not mainstreamed by DOI-were       used
to assess project outcomes and impacts: for example, effectiveness o f W A Sand
improvements inon-farm water management, and increases inproductivity. The overall
rating for M&E is negligible.

  4. Project Ratings

Relevanceof Objectivesand Design

35.        Objective 1: Water Resources Policy and Strategy is substantially relevant.
This objective (described inTable 1) is substantially relevant to Nepal's water institutions
even though Nepal's abundant water resources are lightly exploited (paragraph 7). There
i s little competition for water-except inthe Kathmandu valley where usable supplies are
reduced by pollution and insome areas inthe hills and mountains where there are
conflicts inwater uses among drinking water, hydropower, and upstream and
downstream irrigation users. Essentially, these are local river basin problems, requiring
local solutions. Rather than concentrating its efforts here there is a stronger case for the
Bankto help raise the efficiency ofpublic sector institutionsresponsible for local water
management and service-provision; andto promote beneficiary participation indecision-
making, operationandmaintenance.

36.       Inresponseto the recommendations ofthe 1993 Water Resources Management
Policy, Bank staff were keento adopt comprehensive and integrated approaches to water
resource development. But, inthe case o fNepal at least, such an integrated approach was
premature. Water management policies were fragmented and there was no
comprehensive legislative and regulatory framework to enable integrated water resource

                                                       12


management. Inthe long term, while development of an integrated strategy would be
desirable, the short to medium-termpriority was harmonization of existing policies aimed
at making line agencies more accountable and efficient.

37.       The biggestchallengewas to reform sector institutions, particularly those dealing
with sustainableand cost-effective delivery of water supply and sanitation and irrigation
services. Inthe absence of systemic reformof key implementing agencies and an
increasingrole for the private sector andNGOs, the application of comprehensiveand
integratedwater policies and strategies stood little chance of success. The Bank's
approachdiverted attention from the reform of DOI's way of doing business.
Nevertheless, some parts of the project were appropriate andhighly relevant to irrigation
sector reform. These includedreview of government's subsidy policies inirrigation
investment and recommendationsfor reform; the review of O&M requirementsinpublic
irrigationprojects; and the review of cost-sharing arrangementsthrough water charges.

38.      Objective 2: IrrigationSector Improvement and Developmentwas highly
relevant. Irrigationis a mainstay of the agricultural economy and is second only to
fertilizer as a source of growth (paragraph 6). Farmer and government alike recognize
that irrigation is vital to rural prosperity and national agricultural prod~ction.~~              Less
understoodis the needfor a year-round water supply. Although irrigationhas beenthe
centerpieceo f investment programs inNepal for more than fifty years, the emphasis has
beenon supplementary monsoon irrigation. At appraisal only 18 percent ofthe arable
area had a reliable year-round water supply. Thus a key component ofNepal's
Agricultural Perspective Plan (APP) 1995-2015 was to increasethe area with an assured
year-round supply, inorder to accelerate growth and reduce risks.28Underthe APP it was
expectedthat success inapplying the seven components of the APP would increase
annualagricultural growth from 2 to 5 percent.

39.      The ISPproject objective was highly relevant to Nepal's national planning
process. Duringthe initial phases of appraisal, the seventhplan(1985-1990) introduced
the basic needs program. This aimed to provide adequateclothing, shelter, food, health,
education and security for the Nepalese people. Enhancing agricultural productivity, food
availability and income was to be amajor part of the program. The eighth plan (1992-
1997), the first to be issued after multi-party democracy was restored, built on the
recommendationscontained inthe Irrigation Sector Master Plan (para 18)and the 1992
IrrigationPolicy. The plangave priority to low-cost projects involvingjoint participation
of government, semi-governmentorganizations andthe private non-governmental
organizations. The emphasis was placed on low-cost, speedy implementation and
beneficiary-management.The ninthplan(1998-2002) and tenthplan(2002-2007) both


27. HMGN. 1995.Nepal Agricultural ProspectivePlan.
28. The APP had sevencomponents.(1) acceleratingagricultural growth; (2) doing so through
concentratedinvestment in a small number of input priorities; (3) those priorities were shallow tubewells in
the Terai, agricultural roads, fertilizer and technology systemof research and extension; (4) a small number
ofhigh-value commodity priorities to facilitate intensification of agriculture, especially inthe hills; (5)
those priorities were citrus, vegetables and vegetable seeds, apples, apiculture and sericulture; (6) strong
multipliers from increasedfarm incometo growth of output and employment inthe rural non-farm
economy; and (7) an implementation mechanismthat operatedat district and national levels complemented
with an analytical body to facilitate reinforcement and adjustmentofthe plan over time.

                                                 13


gave more attention to irrigationdevelopment, aiming to increasethe national irrigated
area by 250,000 hectares.This included 107,000 hectares of farmer-managed irrigation
systems. The government's Irrigation Development Vision of 2005 more clearly aligned
subsector objectives with national ones and emphasizedincreasedproductivity of
agriculture through provision of year-round demand-ledirrigationwith substantial farmer
involvement indesign, operation and management.

40.      Improvingagricultural productivitywas also expectedto contribute substantially
to poverty alleviation. The Bank's Nepal;Poverty and Incomes (1991) analyzedthe
extent and depthof poverty. Follow up work pointed to weak agricultural growth as the
prime cause ofp~verty.~'later Bank report arguedthat increasing agricultural
                               A
productivity was essentialto ensure broad-basedequitable growth: "In the short to
medium term, agriculture presents the highestpotential for growth andpoverty
alleviation, as the vast majority of thepeople, and especially of thepoor, live in rural
areas and draw their livelihood@om agriculture ....Agricultureremains crucial; other
sectors arefar less relevant." 30 The report recommendedbetter targetedpublic
expenditure inthe agriculture sector and identification of delivery mechanismswhich
reachedthe poor. Current relevanceof efforts to spur agricultural productivity and the
geographic targeting ofthe project is affirmed by the findings of the Bank's Nepal
DevelopmentPolicy Review (2005) that again focused onthe need to increase agricultural
productivity for poverty reduction, and the multi-donor country review Nepal Resilience
Amidst Conflict (2006) that highlighted the plight of farmers inthe western regions.31,32

41,      Finally, the objectives were highly relevant to the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategies (CASs). The 1997 CAS and its 2005 update identifiedagriculture as the key
sector presentingthe highest potential for growth, as it accounts for almost 40 percent of
gross domestic product and 80 percent of empl~yment.~~           Inparticular, the project was
relevant inthree key areas emphasizedby the CAS: (a) poverty alleviation through
increasedproduction inirrigated agriculture; (b) effective utilizationof public resources
by gradually transferring O&M responsibility from the public to the private sector; and
(c) enhanced participation of the private sector, NGOs and farmer-beneficiaries inthe
investment decision process and systems' ownership. Success of suchinterventions was
expectedto encourageprivate investment because users would have local control over
natural resourcesmanagement.

42.      Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) aimed at poverty reduction
through productivity gains andincreasedprivate sector activities inthe key sectors,
particulhy accelerating agricultural productivity growth through improved rural
infrastructure and diversification into cash crops and livestock. Accordingly a key

29. The results ofthe 1995/96Nepal Living Standards Survey enabled unambiguous determination o fthe
role of agriculture inNepal's poverty.
30. World Bank. 1999.Nepal: Poverty at the turnofthe twenty-first century. ReportNo. IDP 174. Internal
Discussionpaper, South Asia Region.
3 1. World Bank. 2005. Nepal Development Policy Review - Restartinggrowth and Poverty Reduction.
Report No. 29382-NP.Match 24,2005.
32. World Bank. 2006.Nepal -ResilienceAmidst Conflict: An Assessment of Poverty inNepal, 1995-96
and 2003-04. ReportNo. 34834-NP.June 26,2006. A product of the collaboration amongNepal's NPC,
the World Bank,ADB and DFID.
33. World Bank. 1996.Nepal Country AssistanceStrategy. ReportNo. 15508-NEP.April 30, 1996.

                                                14


"development result" of the 2003 CAS was "increased agricultural growth andbroad-
basedrural development." The 2007 InterimStrategy Note focusedprimarily on means to
secure the peace accord, including protection of past reform gains, and strengtheningthe
foundations of growth.

Relevance of Design

43.      Overall relevanceof design is rated substantial. Targeting rehabilitation of
surface water schemes (5 1,000 ha), new groundwater development (8,000 ha) and
support for small-scale infrastructure development, (particularly roads) directly
contributed to meetingthe goals of the APP. The APP highlighted groundwater and
shallow tubewells (STWs) as the primary mode of irrigationgrowth for three-quarters of
the incremental irrigationtargeted (0.6 millionha) becauseoftheir relatively low cost.
The analysis underlying the APP indicatedthat the designof large-scalepublic irrigation
projects could not easily be convertedto provide a year-round supply. Inaddition the
APP aimed to improve the efficiency and productivity of existing systems (covering
155,000 ha). The Bank originally plannedto support groundwater and FMIS only, which
made sense because the latter supplieswater to about 21 percent ofNepal's cultivated
land; the public sector covers only 11percent. However, late inthe appraisalprocessa
decision was made to mergethe third-phase of the Sunsari MorangProject (which was
being preparedinparallel as a stand-aloneproject) with the irrigation sector project.

44.      This merger, however, overlooked fundamental differences inthe designand
institutions of each irrigation subsector. It failed to probe the feasibility of retrofitting the
Project to provide a year-round water supply. The SunsariMorang component largely
continued DOI's top-down approach, addressingbeneficiary participation only after
completion of design and construction ofthe secondary and distributary canals.
Subsequentlyirrigation officials conducteda walk-through of tertiary canal alignments
with water user associationsthat contributed labor for con~truction.~~The FMISadopted
a diametrically opposite approach-with rehabilitation and improvements identifiedand
partly paidfor by beneficiary farmers. Inpractice this put huge demandson the
organizational capacity of DOI, more so as the FMISrequiredextensivecapacity-
buildingand agronomic skills that DO1did not have.

45.      Evenso, increasing beneficiary participation was and remains relevant to Nepal's
IrrigationPolicy of 1992 and its amendmentin 1997.This policy mandates"construction,
renovation, rehabilitation, repair and maintenance and operation of allprojects by a
dejhite collective understanding and mutual participation between water userfarmers
and His Majesty's Government." The 2005 Vision affirms the relevanceofthis approach
(paragraph 39) and goes a step further by calling for aprogressive shifting of O&M costs
to beneficiaries. IEG's own findings show that projects are more successfulwhenthey
provide support for long-term capacity-building and indigenously-matured initiative^.^'


34. IEG. 1998.ProjectAudit Report.PerformanceAudit Report.Narayani I11Irrigation Project (Credit
1715-NEP), SunsariMorangIrrigation I1Project(Credit 1914-NEP)and Sunsari Morang Headworks
Project(Credit 2430-NEP.) Report.No. 18377.August 21, 1998. See paras 2.9,2.10, 3.19., 4.12 to 4.17
and 6.6.
35. IEG. 2005. The Effectivenessof World Bank Supportfor Community-Basedand Driven Development.

                                                      15


46.      Poor on-farm water management inthe Sunsari MorangIrrigationProject was not
addressed by the project -a major failing. The ICR (section 4.2) recognizesthis as
problem: "..there has been little increase inwinter and spring cropping intensities, but
only a modest increaseincrop yields. Again this is attributed to poor in-fieldwater
control. However, ...thiswas never a design consideration under the project."

47.      The attention to subsidy issues was highly relevant. Subsidiesto agriculture and
irrigationplaced a large burdenonNepal's development budget since the mid-1980s and
the review initiated by the project was timely and relevant. The subsidy policy was
neitherrational nor uniformacross the subsector. Government objectives were either
fuzzy or unknown. Duringthe 1990ssubsidiesfor capital investment inirrigationrose to
about 10 percent of the total national development budget and, of this, 90 percent went to
public surface irrigationprojects.36Includingagency costs increasedthe overall subsidy
to 95 percent. More efficient and cheaper groundwater schemes received far lower capital
subsidies: for STWs it was 65 percent for group owned and 30 percent for individually-
owned wells. Incontrast, DTWs attracteda 90 percent capital subsidy. There were also
manyunresolved issues aroundthe actual and implicit subsidiesfor O&M to the various
types of irrigationeither by failure to collect irrigationcharges or settingthemtoo low.
An additional complexity -brought about by inadequatecoordination and
harmonization-was         the confusion createdby the sometimescontradictory donor advice
to government on subsidy policie~.~'

Efficacy

Objective1:Enablingsustainabledevelopmentand managementof Nepal's water
resourcesby means of a comprehensive andintegratednationalwater management
and policywas partiallyachieved with major shortcomings.Efficacyis rated
modest.

48.      Water Policyand Strategy.The policy dialogue andproduction ofpolicy and
strategy documents was fully achieved. However, systemic institutional weaknesses
were not addressed by the project and enabling actions were only partly achieved.

49.      The project ledto ado tion of anew NationalWater Strategy in2002 and a
National Water Plan in2005.'           These built upon the Water ResourcesAct of 1992 and
the Water ResourcesRegulationAct of 1992, bothofwhich pre-datedthe project.
Despite these significant achievements, and the passingof legislation to enable their
implementation, Nepal still lacks the capacity to engage inintegrated and comprehensive
water resources management.This is not so much a matter of the lack of the required


36. HMGNDOI. 2000. NepalIrrigation Sector ProjectIrrigation Subsidy Study. PhaseI1Report.
37. The ADB-financedSecondAgricultural ProgramLoanincludedadated covenantto reducedirrigation
subsidieson STWs to zero by July 1999.IFAD's Community Shallow TubewellIrrigation Project
proposed in 1998 a subsidy of 85 percentbecause it arguedthis was reasonablegiventhat they were
targetingthe very poorest farmers.The World Bank argued duringpreparationof its Terai Groundwater
IrrigationProject that there should be no differentialsubsidy amongtubewelltypes and the cost per hato
farmers shouldbe the same. It was ambivalent about the removalof subsidies.
38. The Water Resources Strategy was approved on January 9,2002. The NationalWater Planwas
completed expost by consultantsemployedby WEC using CIDA grants.

                                                   16


supply-side hydrological information-water          resources data collection was successfully
carried out-it    was more the lack o f capacity and experience withinthe Water and
EnergyCommission Secretariat.

50.      Sector agencies continue to planwater resource management and development
independently. The two agencies responsible for water supply and sanitation at the
national level remain indisarray and are struggling at their maintask o fproviding and
sustaining potable water supplies to municipal and rural areas. The successful semi-
autonomous FundBoard (that only facilitates rural water supplies and sanitation
implementedby NGOs) only works at the ~illage-level.~~Although hydropower capacity
doubled between 2000 and 2005 this represents a very modest use o fthe potential and
there is almost no competition with other water users. As with water supply and
sanitation, primary hydropower concerns are increasing service provision to households
and industry, and facilitating private sector investment inline with the revisionto Nepal's
Hydropower Policy in2001-02.40

51.      A consistent, reliable andup-to-date database onwater utilization by all users is
still lacking. Information on water quality is incomplete. There are no river basinwater
development plans although two are plannedunder the recently approved Bank-financed
Irrigation and Water Resources Management Pr~ject.~'Indeed, this project includes
US$4.lmto further develop the institutions responsible for improved water management
inNepalthat were assisted under this ISPproject. Overall the achievement is modest at
best.

52.      Subsidy Reform.The evolution o f government's policy o f irrigation subsidies
was thoroughly reviewed by consultants but their recommendations were limited and had
negligible impact. First, the targeted increases to irrigation area inthe APP were treated
as non-negotiable. The report's prime concern was the impact of subsidies on the growth
o f groundwater irrigation through shallow tubewells (STWs) and to a lesser extent, deep
tubewells (DTWs.) Groundwater sources, however, only accounted for about 13 percent
o f the public sector irrigation budget. There was no comprehensive analysis o f the
market-distorting impact o f government subsidies on ail irrigation, the role o fthe private
sector, o f farmers' willingness to pay, or the supply response that would occur if
subsidies were reduced. There was no consideration o f productivity improvements from
other inputsthat could make subsidies redundant. The study made no implementable
recommendations on subsidypolicies to reach the poorest non-creditworthy rain-fed
farmers that would have benefited most from groundwater and very small-scale
irrigation.

53.       Second, the study's recommendations were impractical as they ignored the
political economy o f agricultural reform andthe role o f other donors. Inpractice, actions
outside the influence o fthe project ledto major reform o f subsidies affecting irrigation


39. IEG. 2008. PPAR Ruralwater Supply and SanitationProject.
40. According to the 2001census only 40 percent ofNepalesehouseholds have access to electricity.
Electricity consumptionper capita inNepal is the lowest inSouthAsia: in 1999-2000Indiause 379 Kwh,
Pakistan321, Sri Lanka 255, Bangladesh89 andNepal 47 Kwh.
41. World Bank. 2007. Irrigationand Water ResourcesManagementProject. Credit -NEP. This project
costingUS$65 millionwas approvedfor a Credit ofUS$SO milliononNovember 26,2007.

                                                      17


productivity-in particular those for STWs and fertilizers (Box 1). In 1995-96the subsidy
for STWs was reducedinto 60 percent for group-owned wells and 30 percent for
individually-owned wells. Subsequently,the government eliminated subsidiesfor all
types of STWs in2002 inline with the covenant agreedunder the ADB-financed Second
Agricultural Program Loan. Subsidiesfor DTWs remained.

54.       The subsidy elimination stoppeddeadthe growth inthe number of public STWs.
The number of DTWs increased4riven by capital costs subsidies averaging 84
percent.42Growth of the groundwater area slowed as expected, butthis did not leadto a
proportional fall inthe growth of agricultural productivity (discussedbelow). Even
without a subsidy STWs are an attractive inve~tment.~~Some observers thought that lack
of uptakewas an attempt by farmer's unions to induce government to resume subsidies;
but governmentremained firm. Sincethe governmentceasedto subsidize STWs the
official figures provide no information about subsequentuptake by farmers. Fromthe
foregoing IEGratesthe efficacy ofthe subsidy studies as negligible. Overall, given the
very modest achievementon comprehensive planning of water resourcesandthe
negligible achievements on subsidiesfor irrigation, efficacy is rated negligible.


Box 1:Fertilizer subsidies reform-Official data misrepresentsreality
Independentlyof the project government reducedfertilizer subsidies from 1997, completely removing them
by 2001, The Agricultural Input Corporation(AIC) monopoly on fertilizer distribution was dismantledand
this spurred private sector growth. Officially registeredprivate sales grew from 17,550 tons in 1997198to
118,265 tons in2002/03. In2005/06 sales were 78,258 tons. AIC's sales fell from 91,178 tons in 1997/98
to 13,295 tons in 2005/06.44Elimination of subsidies seems to have reduced fertilizer use. This impression
i s incorrect.A randomsurvey of fertilizer use clearly demonstrated that total fertilizer consumptionper ha
was 35 kg/ha in 1997/98 compared with the official figure of 13 k o a . In2000/01the comparativedata
were 58 kg/ha compared to the official figure of 17 koa. Supply was more timely too: 22 percent found it
was deliveredlate in 1997/98, comparedto 14 percent in200/01. Official statistics give only a partial view
ofwhat is actually happening.

Source: MOAC andADB. 2002. op cit. paras 690 to 747.                                                       I
Objective2(a): Productivity of irrigationsystems improved-how muchthis may be
attributedto the projectis unclear.Overallefficacyis ratedmodest. This balances
the very modest performanceof publicsector irrigationagainstthe excellent
performanceoffarmer-managedsystems.

55.       Physical targets for irrigated area improvement or extension were exceededfor
the FMISschemes but not met for either groundwater or the Sunsari MorangIrrigation
Project (Table 2.) Even so, agricultural production from irrigation systemswas improved:
the SunsariMorange project producedmuch less than targeted, the farmer-managed
system considerably more. Agricultural productivity also increasedinresponseto
exogenous demandand supply stimulidescribedbelow. Additionally, the benefits from a
number of other donor-financed initiatives spilled-over to project areas (Annex B).

42. MOAC and ADB. 2002. Nepal Agricultural Sector PerformanceReview. March2002. para530 et seq.
43. Op cit.,. para760. Their surveys indicatefinancial rates of return for STWs rangingbetween38 and 60
percent for farmers and 21to 43 percentto the economy.The ICR for the ISP did not give ERRSfor STWs.
44. GovernmentofNepal. 2006. Statistical Information on Nepalese Agriculture 2005/06. Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives.

                                                  18


56.       Exogenous factors            Table 2: Physicalachievements were high
bolstered productivity. The
agriculture sector grew                        Type of Irrigation         Planned           Actual

because of reducedtariffs in                                              Area (ha)    Area (ha)     O h


inputs-now       among the             Farmer-managed irrigation            31,500       46,250     147
                                       systems
lowest inthe SouthAsia                 Groundwater STW                      3,200         435        15
region-and the privatization           Groundwater DTW                      4,800         5,550     122
of the fertilizer market.45            Sunsari Morang: extension            15,100
Increasedproductivity and                                                                11,500      76

cropping intensity, coupled            SunsariMorang: turnover              5,000         5,000     100

with diversification into                                          Total    59.600       68.735     115

higher-value products,                 Source: IEGderived from DO1data.
contributed to agriculture's improvedperformance inthe secondhalf of the 1990s, a
trend that has continued to this day. Risingincomes, increasing domestic demandand
improved export opportunities expandedmarkets for agricultural products.46

57.      National expansiono f infrastructure benefitedagriculture and the project.
Between 1995 and 2004 the total roadnetwork increasedby 6.7 percent a year, from
11,000 to 17,000 km.District andrural roads-vital for agricultural marketing-
increased by 11percent a year.47Access to irrigationrose from 54 percent in 1995-96to
67 percent in2003-04, most of this due to expansion of canal irrigation. Trade policy
reforms increasedagricultural exports. Commodity market deregulation encouraged
private sector investment, particularly infertilizer. Householdsreporting use of fertilizer
increasedfrom 55 percent in1995-96 to 63 percent in2003-04. The proportion of farm
householdsreporting easy access to fertilizer rose by more then 90 percent.

The Sunsari Morang Project performed poorly

58.      The project set out to increaseirrigated area and agricultural productivity.
Cropping intensity increasedbecause the irrigation channels were improved and
extended.As a result, cropping intensity increased from 160percentin 1998-99to 223
percent in2006-07 because of expansionof winter and spring cultivation (Figure 1). In
the summer the maintrendhas beento increasepaddy productionandsubstitute
sugarcane for jute and maize, a move encouragedby start-upof a local sugarcane factory.
Inthe winter season, there was anincreaseinthe areaunder irrigatedwheat, pulses,
vegetables and sugarcane. Inthe spring the preferencehas beenfirstly for paddy, which
accounts for about one-half the incremental area, followed by pulses, green manureand
maize.




                        ~




45. Over the period 1996-2006 agricultural GDP grew at 3.3 percent compared with the 2.9 percent average
ofthe previousten years. In2005 this declinedto 3 percentand the poor monsoonrains of 2006 lowered
this to only 1.7 percent.
46. World Bank.2005.Nepal Development Policy Review -Restarting Growth and Poverty Reduction.
ReportNo. 29382-NP. March24,2005. Chapter 4 provides a review the agricultural sector.
47. World Bank, DFID and ADB. 2006. Nepal: ResilienceAmidst Conflict -An Assessment of Poverty in
Nepal, 1956-96and 2003-04. Report 34834-NP. June 26,2006. The data quoted are drawn from the Nepal
Living Standard Surveys of O f 1995-96 and 2003-04.

                                                    19


59.      However, crop yields did not improve over the without-project situation (Figure
2). Thus only the physical part o f project underlyingthe productivity objective was
substantially achieved (76 percent, Table 2). At appraisal it was expected that the
project's support for agricultural extension would leadto crop diversification away from
rice towards more profitable crops:
potato, sugarcane, jute and oilseeds            Figure 1: CroppingIntensityin SMIP
(Figure 2). Sugarcane (the most
profitable crop) only achieved 10                     Cropping
                                                     Intensity("4
percent, and oilseeds 8 percent, o f                  300 7

appraisal targets. Production
increments did not match appraisal                                        A
                                                      250 -

expectations except for paddy,
vegetables and pulses which                           200 -                                  0 Spring Crops


exceeded them. This was because
agricultural extension supported by                                                          0 Winter crops

the project was a failure.
                                                                                               Summor Crops

60.      The project had little impact
on paddy yields. Paddy rice remains
the dominant crop inthe area and
accounts for about 48 percent o f the                 &@    &&    & &p&Q'     Qi@ &&
total cropped area. Yield has
systematically increased by about 15            Figure2: Actual and predictedincremental
percent since the early 1990s-the               productionunderISPin the SMIP
same as the 'without-project,                                Crop
situation insurrounding districts. A                      Produotlon
                                                            (tons)

comparison o fthe SMIP growth rate                     60.000

for the yield o f summer irrigated                     50,000
paddy with the national growth rate                                         0 iSPActual 0Appraisal

for all paddy shows an almost                          40,000


identical yield increment (Figure 3).                  30.000

Project farmers told the mission that
agricultural extension services were                   20,000


not generally available from the                       10,000

project and that they relied on their
own networks for advice. This i s
borne out by independent
 observation^.^^ IEGconcludes that
within SMIPthe observed growth in               Source: IEG calculations basedon DOI's SMIP Annual
yield would have happened without               Cropping Reports 1992193-2006107

ISP.



48. HMGN. 2004. Irrigation Benchmarking- A World Bank Mission to Kathmandu. December 8 to 25,
2004. This exercise coveredthe whole SMIP project with a special focus on four secondary canals as case
studies. Field surveys were undertakenby 18 DO1staff, When reporting agricultural performanceall noted
that agricultural extensionservices were notableby their absence.The overall conclusionwas the SMIP
improved water distribution thus raising cropping intensity but hadnegligible impact of crop yields.

                                            20


61.     Despite this, overall            Figure 3: SMIP paddy yield growth follows
agricultural output from Sunsari         the national average
Morang increasedbecause of the
increasedcropping intensity- but it          Weld (tondha)

did not meet appraisaltargets. In
gross tonnage terms it met 70 percent                     y = 0 0538x + 3 1821
of the target - but that is not very
meaningful as it is the mix of crops
that matters and the incremental
value-added. Invalue-added terms the
SunsariMorang project only achieved
55 percent of the expectationsat
appraisalbut at far greater cost - 52
percent more per ha than the appraisal          1L
estimate.

62.     While it is tempting to           Source: DOI/SMIP Annual CroppingReport2007 and MOAC
conclude that the project could have      2006 (opcit).

caused the increaseincropping intensity and crop diversification, inthe absence of data
on adjacent non-project areas it is impossible to be sure. Critical M&E data are missing.
Farmers outside the project may have investedintheir own irrigationsupplies suchas
STWs or small-scale surface irrigation; andthey may also have diversified. Nepali
farmers have ready access to the Indianmarket for bothinput and output marketing.

Farmer-managed irrigation systems performed well

63.     Determining impact on agricultural production is more difficult becausethe 338
irrigation schemes are relatively small and are widely dispersedacross a non-
homogenouslandscape. Generally, the ISP facilitated WUA formation. It usedNGOs to
manage and guide repair or upgrade o f existing irrigationfacilities. Few project resources
were devotedto agricultural extension implementedby the DOA. F A 0 technical
assistance helpedto upgrade on-farm water managementin30 schemes (instead ofthe 40
planned) covering over 2,940 haor 48 percent ofthe areatargetedat appraisal.

64.     A single-difference "before andafter" calculation shows that cropping intensities
increased inall three western regions (Table 3). The "without project" counterfactual was
not monitored and thus the share of the increment cropping intensity attributable to the
ISP cannot be determinedgiven exogenous factors (paragraphs 56 and 57).

65.     The findings for yield improvements are more sanguine. Except for paddy, crop
yields inFMIS are generally significantly more thanthe district average ineach
physiographic region (Table 4). Outside the Terai wheat yields are muchhigher than
district averages whilst maize yields show substantialincreases. The very large increase
inwheat andmaize yields is the result ofmore reliable water suppliesandbetter farming
practices during the winter months.There was also crop diversification; but this was
confined mainly to potato. Aggregate chemical fertilizer application showed little change,
averaging about 80 k o a inthe west and far westernregions, but only 34 kgha inthe
mid-westernregion. Use of organic manureis high but application rates are not known.

                                                      21


66.     Incremental agricultural production 1998-02 was 130,000 tons or about 2.5
tonsha. This was more than double (115 percent) the baseline production. Over the half
the overall incrementalproductionwas contributedto potato, 31percent to wheat and
barley and less than a tenth to paddy. The largest change incrop diversification was to
barley inthe Mid-western Region and wheat inthe Western Region.

Table 3: Cropping intensity inFMIS improved

             StatusIRegion                  Western        Mid-Western       Far Western           Total
 Baseline croppedarea (1998)                  23,541           19,281            10,783            53,605
 Finalcroppedarea (2002)                      29,458           33,837            15,417            78,712
 Incremental cropping intensity               25%                75%              43%               47%

Source: DO1project completion report based on DOAs Project Monitoring and BaselineEvaluation. July 2003.


Table 4: Crop yields inFMIS are better than Districtaverages
 RegiodCrop                 Paddy                           Wheat                          Maize
                  ISP    District Increment ISP         District Increment ISP         District Increment
    Mountain      2.01     1.87        +7%        1.81     1.49      +21%       2.35      1.55       +52%

      Hills       2.54     2.40        +6%        2.43     1.62      +SO%       2.47      1.71       +44%
      Terai       2.70     2.77         -3%       2.05     2.03       +1%        2.51     1.84       +36%

Source: MOAC. 2002. Statistical Informationon Nepalese Agriculture
       DOA.     2002. Seasonal Crop Benefit Monitoring.


Objective 2 (b): The objective to increasesustainability of irrigation systems was
partially achieved. Efficacy is rated modest.
67.      Farmer-managed irrigation systems have a substantial chance of being
sustained.NGOshelpedto buildwater user associations to better manage operation and
maintenance-until       DOI's budget constraints ledto a cut inthe number o f facilitators.
Farmerswere willing to help meetthe cost o f capital investments.Their contributions
averaged 12 percent interms o f cash, and considerably more if in-kindcontributions are
factored in.Farmers are accustomed to work together, either cooperatively or under the
local leaders. Self-interest ensures that farmers are willing to fund essential maintenance
works done on as as-needed basis. Formal irrigation service fee arrangements as
practiced inpublic sector projects (andas discussed below) have not been the norm for
local farmer-managed schemes. Even so, large-scale damage caused by floods or
landslides may be beyond local repair capability. While DOI's regional staff i s willing to
helpout, the budgetpinchmeansthat they cannot meet all reque~ts.~'This is a
significant shortcoming. Duringproject implementation about one-fifth o f schemes
(particularly those inhills and mountains) were affected by floods and landslides.



49. For example, the DO1PokharaOfficehadall its vehicles off the road for amonthduring2007 because
o f budget shortage-thus staff were unableto move from the office to work with farmers. Insufficient
budgetalso reducedthe availability of constructionequipment.

                                                     22


68.       The SunsariMorang Irrigation Projectis unlikely to be sustainable. Unlike
the FMIS, most farmers inpublic irrigation schemes expect the government to pay all the
operation and maintenance costs. Lack o f payment was a problem inthe past and the
project set out to redress this failing. Studies conducted by the project examined the cost
o f operating and maintaininglarge public-sector irrigation projects. Initial
recommendations were fine-tuned after trial implementation to test cost recovery
methods. Inpractice the post-monsoon trial period was too short, coveredtoo few
schemes and did not produce a replicable model because o fthe small sample.50 The
recommended unit area Irrigation Service Fee (fee) o f Rp700/ha was not approved
becausethe government dismissed the proposal as unaffordable. Instead, the fee was set
at Rp200 per ha. Since the project
endedDO1has increasedthis to
Rp3OO/ha.                                      Figure 4: Irrigation Fee Collectionwas good
                                               duringthe projectbut fell sharply afterwards
69.       Fee payments increased
systematically from the first to the
second SMIP-mainly            becausethe        'w?,T
project engaged social science
consultants who understood how to
form and motivate water-user
associations to contribute cash for
O&M? These same consultants
also trained DO1staff andpushed
hard to increase active participation
o f farmers inproject O&M. When
the consultants' contract expired,
the DOI's ability to motivate
farmers and collect fees dwindled
rapidly (Figure 4). Fieldinterviews
suggest that the consultants                         w saw
                                                         95/96     91198 98/99 WM) woi oim 02103 03/04 wo5 wc6 wo7
substitutedfor DOI's oversight o f
fee collection-working          with           Source: DO1dataand IEG2007

closely with farmers inpublic schemes was never became part o f DO1culture.52This
reflects the engineeringfocus o f DO1staff andits lack o f social scientists.

70.       Despite the reduced rate set by the government the total fee o f Rp12.7 million due
for the whole SMIP has never been collected. Total fee collection peaked at 13 percent o f
total dues in 1999/00 but fell to 1.5 percent in2006/07. The figures are little improved if

50. The trial was limitedto only four schemes, two surface water and one groundwater scheme inthe Terai,
and one surface water inthe hills.Post-monsoonfee collection was difficult becausemany farmers
maintain that most of their water derived from rainfall, not the irrigation system. Earlier piloting of
irrigation service fee collection inthe SunsariMorang project for 1999/00 showedthe highest rate of ISF
collection was inthe period December-May when irrigation makes the most difference.
5 1. The total design command area of SMIP i s 68,000 ha. Figure 4 i s basedon the total areaof the SMIP in
which WUGs were formed (63,866 ha), and all WUGs inthat area (1,620). This covered20 canal systems
of which the maximum numberpaying was 16.
52. Overall, the ISPproject used three international and 333 local consultants, the former covering 44.4
person-monthsservice, the latter 406.4 person-months.Within SMIP, 35 short-termAssociation Organizers
were employedto improve WUG performanceand motivate them to pay ISF.

                                                    23


the areas paying nothing are removed-O&M               cost recovery thenpeaks at 16 percent and
falls to 5.5 percent in2006/07. Only farmers in8 of the 20 secondary canal systems have
systematically paid fees since the mid-1990s. And at only three sites-all            of them
continually supportedby donors and locatednext to the main canal where water supply is
secure-have      fee collection rates exceeded 50 per~ent.'~ even for these three sites
                                                                   But
there are large variations inpayment rates betweenwater user groups. Attempts to
increasefee paymentshave failed, partly because they have not become a regular part of
DO1operations. DO1continuesto pay almost the full cost of O&M inSunsari Morang.
At an estimatedUS$24 per hato fully maintain the project, beneficiaries only contributed
0.6 percent in2006/07. (Inpractice their share may be more because DO1never has
sufficient budget to pay full O&M costs). Low fee recovery rates are the result of
farmer's dissatisfaction with the design and operating proceduresof DOI-managed
schemes, the unwillingness of the leaders of water-user groups to act as fee collection
agents for government, and the lack of agricultural extension services. The Maoist
insurgency also discouragedfarmers from paying fees for government irrigation services
andthis also contributed to low cost recovery.

71.      DO1cannot ensure that irrigationwater is sediment-free-a              major problem during
Bank appraisal of the Second Sunsari Morang Project (1986-87), as well as at the time of
the last IEGassessment of SMIP (1998). Water is drawn from the KosiRiver through the
offtake constructedunder the US$35.7 million Sunsari Morang Headworks Project. This
water flows into a large stilling basin constructedunder secondproject. Two floating
dredgers each capable of removing about 250,000 cubic meters of silt a year were
provided. When they were commissioned in 1995 siltation withinthe irrigated command
area was reducedby 70-80 percent and the irrigated area increasedby 30 percent. Inthe
period June 1996-December 2005 almost 3 million cubic meters of silt were removed-
0.4 million cubic meters per year.

72.      The insufficient O&M budget from DOI-less              than half of that required-
eventually ledto a major breakdown of the dredgers; only one has beenworking since
June 2005.54As a result the stilling basinhas silted up. This creates an unforeseendry
season problem because post-monsoonwater levels inthe main canal intake are below
the level of sedimentinthe stilling basin.Becauseofthisthe flow through the stilling
basin erodes fine sediment capturedduring the monsoon, flushing it into the irrigation
system. This hampers systemoperation, places a hugeburdenon farmers to remove
sediment to keepthe water flowing inthe tertiary canals, andreducesthe supply at the
tail end of the system-driving many farmers to install their own wells (andmaking them
unwilling to pay fees).


53. These are Ramdhuni (849 ha), Singiya (740 ha), and SSJ Jhumka (891 ha). Together these cover only 4
percentof the total SSMIP area and account for abouthalf ofthe existing area targetedby ISP. The SSJ
Jhumka area was chosen in 1988 underthe Bank-financed SMIP I1to pilot water management with
intensive consultant supervision and capacity-building 1988- 1977.
54. DredgerBARUN was out of order from 17June 2005 until20 November 2007. Dredger ARUN has
beenout of order since 27 August 2007 and is awaiting spare parts. IEGwas informed that DO1cannot
afford the cost of genuine spare parts from the manufactures(HYDROLAND of France) and are trying to
get them manufacturedinCalcutta, India. During2006 only 195,755 cubic meters of sedimentwas
removed- less than halfthe amount required.Source: Personalcommunication, DO1Biratnagar,
December2,2007.

                                                    24


73.       DOI'sManagementInformationSystemdoes notwork well. In1994-1996a
comprehensive operational management informationsystem(OMIS) was piloted,
improved and mainstreamed. This includedan M&E systemto monitor fee collection,
crop coverageand yield, farmers' response, maintenanceofthe canals and so on. Two
DO1water management department staff memberswere trained how to use these
systems.But the level of management was still inadequate(Box 2). At the end of the
Headworks Project in 1997the international consultantsdeparted.They returnedunder
the ISP in 1999 and reviewed progress-again finding major problems with DO1staffing.
IEGdiscussionswith DO1staff and with farmers' groups revealedthat the same pattern
recurred at completion of ISP. In2000, this was accentuatedby the retrenchmentof DO1
staff (para 89) and staff reluctanceto serve inthe field during the Maoist insurgency.

Box 2: Understaffingof SunsariMorang Project Office was a problem
Consultants ProgressReport No. 3 (May 1999.) "The [international] water management expert
undertook immediately a quest of information and datafrom theprevious times....However, only a minor
part of documents that should be available somewhere with SMIP could be retrieved Similarly, theproject
computers appeared not to contain any useful information relating to water management, and also the
water managementprogram of the OMIS.....could not be traced. Thefrequent transfer of Project staff is
the main reason why most documentation and know-how is lost. Generally speaking, the WMD water
ManagementDepartment] is understaffed and there is no systematic implementation of many
tasks.....which should be routine."
Consultants Report of the Water Management Unit (1996.) "Nowater management staff is seconded to
manage the operation of the ChatraMain Canal which often results in arbitrary operations of intakes
unless the [Water Management] Division is properly organized and strengthened, the implementation of
water management andjoint managementprocess will become questionable.        "

Source: ISP Proiect Files, World Bank KathmanduOffice. December2007.

74.       Water User Associations in SunsariMorangformed under the project were
not effectivein payingISF. The WUAs are responsiblefor water distribution below the
secondary canal systems (Box 3). Inthe Stage I11area of SMIP, two secondary canals
(Biratnagar and HarinagaraMahadevkol) were targetedby the project, including486
WUAs covering 15,100 ofthe 18,678 ha commandedby these canals. Within this area
280 W A Shadbeen"formed" five years earlier by DO1inresponseto targets issued
from Kathmandu.

Box 3: Organization of water users in the SansariMorang Irrigation Project
The SMIP designis built aroundthe conceptthat the DO1regulatesthe mainand secondary canals to
ensure a continuous flow of water. DO1controls the supply and tells farmers at the beginning of the
irrigation season how much water it will distribute -farmers have to adapt accordingly. Below the
secondary canals water user organizations assume responsibility for rotational water distribution to the
tertiary canals using gates inthe Stage Iarea of SMIP. The Stage I1area was redesignedto have
proportional flow dividers that, incomparison, require little management. Distributionof water inthe
tertiary canals to water courses serving 30 ha and 10to 30 individual farmers ineach subunit is the
responsibility ofthe W A S .Fee collection is the responsibility of WUAs under the general direction ofthe
20 water user central coordinating committee for all the WUAs servedby each secondary canal. The seven
largest secondary canals have intermediatewater user committeesrepresenting6 to 20 W A Son the
centralcommittee. Typically, a WUA managesan average 39 ha but the range is quite large: 24 to 138 ha.
Source: DO1and PAD.

75.      The international consultantsresponsiblefor the 1999baseline survey found that
inthese "mature" W A Sonly 26 percentof farmers knew they were actually membersof

                                                  25


a WUA; 14percent hadparticipated inWUA activities and only five percent had a clear
sense of roles and respon~ibilities.~~

76.     Under ISP, WUA capacity was builtup steadily from 1999onwards; and 83
percent o f the targeted area managedby WUAs was completed by project closure. Even
so, fee collection was only effective between2000 and 2004-when              the consultantswere
active. Fee recovery inthe Biratnagar canal commandreached4.5 percent of the
assessment in2002/03 and fell to 0.4 percent in2003/04. The Harinagara Mamadevkol
secondary fared worse thanthe average: fees peakedin2001/02 with a collection rate of
2.4 percent; nothing was collected in2002/03 and the rate was 0.6 percent in2003/04.
Nothinghas beencollected from any of these associations since 2004. IEGwas told by
the Zhorahatwater users' central committee that manages the Harinagara Mamadevkol
secondary that there is no mechanismfor fee c~llection.~~        Farmersinthe meeting also
complained about shortages of canal water (particularly for tail-enders), and the buildup
of silt over the last two years. Askedto summarizewhat impact the project had had on
themthey said: "we only have half the benefitpotentially available, our traditional .
sources of water [small temporary barrages on streams running through the command
area] were stopped by theproject, and we get no helpJFomthe agricultural department-
why should wepay?"

77.     Sunsari Morang is unlikely to be sustainablegiven the under-funding of O&M,
the unsatisfactory status of sedimentcontrol, farmers' unwillingness to pay fees, and
DOI's inability to collect it. A visual inspection ofthe maincanal inthe Stage I11project
area revealedhigh levels of siltation and aged concrete structures. While secondary
canals were ingood order, tertiary canals were incomplete (missing insome places) and
silted up. DO1is understaffed, incapable of managingeither the project or the farmers.
The interviews with farmers confirmed the deficiencies of agricultural extension services.
Internal management of the WUAs is weak. Membershipof WUAs is not compulsory
whichencouragesfree-riding. Andthose farmers that take water illegally or default on
paying their dues cannot be disciplined.Neitherthe localmagistrates nor the DO1will
proceedagainst them; atest case was thrown out. IEGfound the same problem in 1998;
nothing appears to have changedsince.

Efficiency

78.     Because performance varies betweencomponents, the efficiency of eachis
separately assessed.

79.     The efficiency of the water resourcesmanagementand policy component is
ratedmodest. Taking into account bothBank and CIDA contributions, targets for
strengtheningmanagementand development were only partly achieved. Despite the
investment made under ISP, the follow-on project will devote an additional US$4.12
million to capacity building.


55. DOL 1999.SMIP Stage I11(Phase 1 ) Project Benefit and Monitoring Evaluation. February 1999.
56. Meeting with 14 farmers December2,2007. The WUCC includes 12,000 ha of which 8,000 were
developed; 430 WUGs; and 74,000 ofthe 88,000 farmers inthe command. It contains22 km of secondary
canal and 30 tertiary canalstotaling 120km inlength.

                                                  26


80.      The efficiencyof FMISis ratedsubstantial.Unitcosts were only 60 percent of
the appraisedvalues and areatargetswere amply exceeded. Economic returnscalculated
by the ICR at completion (basedon a small non-random sample) range between 18 and
22 percent. Financial rates of returnare slightly lower and cover a wider range: 10to 29
percent. IEG's visits to FMIS schemes revealedsubstantialimprovementsinagricultural
production and there is little to contradict the ICR's findings. Giventhe very large
number of FMIS schemes and the logistical difficulty of taking an adequaterandom
sample, IEGdid not recalculate the ERR for the FMIS component.

81.      The efficiencyof the SMIP component is ratedas negligible.Inthe case of
SMIP, the project only increasedthe irrigated area but didnot increaseyields (paras 58-
60) despite investing US$3,690 per ha-or more than four times more expensive per ha
thanthe average FMIS(wherethere was incremental production), Table 5. The DOI's
annual cropping report provides expost area of crops grown and this was the basis of
IEG's revised ERRestimate of 1percent(Annex C). The primaryreasonsfor the low
ERRare the absence of effective agricultural extensionand continued uncertainand poor
water managementthat induces risk-averse farming. The ERR considering the whole
SMIP would be even lower ifthe sunk costs (US$122 million) invested over the period
1978-1997were included.

82.      Overallefficiencyis thus ratedmodest. Overall project economic efficiency
was determinedby applying weights to eachcomponent. Ifthe ERR of the project
componentsare weighted by area, the average ERR is 16.7 percent (Table 5). But given
that the small area ofthe SMIP accountedfor over halfthe project investment costs the
area weighting is not very realistic. When weighted by costs, the average ERR is 10.3
percent.

0utcornes

83.      The overall outcome ratingis moderatelyunsatisfactory(Table 6). This is
derived from the ratings for each individualobjective weighted by its share of project
costs. Given the relatively low cost of objective 1(US$0.5 million) it is clear that the
moderately unsatisfactory outcome is the result of includingthe SMIP inthe project and
tolerating abusiness-as-usualapproachto the public irrigation sector.

Table 5: ProjectCosts and EconomicEfficiency
Scheme Type      Total        Costs US$millions          Cost   Scheme  ERR       ERR
                 Area         Civil   Institutions Total per ha ERR     weighted weighted
                 ha           Works                                     by area   by Costs
PrivateFMIS      46,250       27.94   6.25         34.19  739   19.9
Surfacewater
Private FMIS      5,985        5.13   0.77          5.90 1,001  6.0
Groundwater
Public -SMIP     11,500       40.89   1.55         42.44        0.9
Total            63,735       73.86   8.57         82.53 -3,690
Average                                                  1,295  -       16.7      10.3

Source: IEGbased on project files

                                                27


Risksto DevelopmentOutcomes

84.        Risks to developmentoutcomes are ratedsubstantial.The capacity o f the
National Water Planning Unit i s uncertainbecausethere are insufficient staff with the
broader planningperspective required. The water and energy commission secretariat
remains focused on hydro-power and electricity generation and i s not devoting much
effort to the big challenge o f coordinating river basin planning, irrigation, water supply
and sanitation, flood control, andhydro-power.

Table6: ProjectOutcomeRatedonAchievement of ProjectObjectives
             Objective            Relevance    Efficacy   Efficiency        OUTCOME

1. To enable sustainable
developmentofNepal's water
resourcesby means of a            Substantial   Modest
comprehensiveand integrated
nationalwater managementand
policy

2 (a) To increase productivity
of irrigation systems
                          FMIS       High     Substantial
                          SMIP Substantial      Modest

2(b) To increasesustainability
o f irrigation systems
                          FMIS       High     Substantial
                          SMIP Substantial      Modest

         Overall Ratings          Substantial   Modest     Modest           Moderately
                                                                           Unsatisfactory


85.        Institutionally the risksto the development effectiveness o f FMIS are modest
because o fthe long tradition o f community management inNepal, particularly inthe hills
and mountains. Butthere is highrisk from landslides, earthquakes and floods, which
affect upto five percent o f FMIS subprojects each year. Communities are poorly
equipped to repair damage from these natural hazards. Government i s willing to help as
partof its broader commitment to rural development andpoverty alleviation it but does
not always have the means to intervene effectively.

86.        The risks to SMIP are substantial, mainly based on the poor condition o f dredgers
and the level o f sediment buildup and inadequate funding for O&M. DOI's focus on the
civil engineering aspects o f irrigation to the detriment o f institutional development and
capacity buildingo f W A Si s a further risk. The follow-on project will addressthese
shortcomings; but the experience o f past interventions does not encourage optimism
about the outcome.

Safeguards

87.        There was substantial land acquisition inorder to build canals, drains and road
access. While over a thousand farmers hadto surrender small areas o f land, few o f these

                                               28


were seriously affected. Landacquisition was not fully identifiedat appraisalbecause the
design of the canal systems was only finalized during project implementation. Inaddition
to the landacquisition generatedby the ISP there was also the issue of unresolved land
compensationfrom the initial construction of the project during 1970-72. The Bank
establishedthat compensationfor this landacquisition hadbeenpartial andurged the
MoWR to address the issue. The final outcome is unknown.

88.      The issue ofcompensationand loss of assets by project-affectedpeople (PAP)
received high attention at mid-termreview because the DO1was perceived to be dragging
its feet. The grievance redress committee that was establishedincluded two PAPs to favor
transparency. Generally the PAPs expressedsatisfaction with the processingof land
compensationpaymentsbut complained about the low compensationrates. Becauseland
users wantedto reduce the tax they paidon sales, they understatedproperty prices. This
meantthat landcompensationrates were below marketprices.57DO1did not respondto
IEG's request for full details of the compensationprogram.

BankPerformance

89.      Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. Appraisal was a slow processmade
more difficult by several changes of senior Bank staff andmanagement, and a change in
Bankemphasis-from meetingphysicaltargets to building institutional capacity, and
from aproject-by-project focus to a more comprehensiveapproach involvingriver basin
planning. The ADB was equally active inthe irrigation sub-sector at this time and
appears to have beena strong competitor to the Bank.In 1992-93, ADB rebuffedan
attempt by the Bankto coordinate irrigationreform efforts. The Bank distanceditself
from the ADB's irrigationsector project. To its ownproject it addedthe Water Resources
Managementand Policy Objective inline with the Bank's drive to implementits 1993
Water ResourcesManagementPolicy. Inretrospect this was probably a mistake. The
inclusion of generalwater resources issues that requiredinclusion of another agency
diverted the Bank from giving adequate attention to the reform o fthe DOL There was
certainly a needto harmonize and updateNepal's water resourcesmanagementpolicies
andinter-sectoral standardizationwithrespect to water planningand use-but it was not
the highestpriority.

90.      Itwas also amistaketo addthe SMIP. Ifthe project hadonly focusedon FMIS
andgreater involvement ofthe private sector andNGOs, plusmore emphasisonthe
factors affecting agricultural productivity, it may have developedaviable model for the
future ofNepal's irrigationsector.

91.      Bank supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. Supervisions were usedto
pushthe DO1to increasethe pace ofproject implementation; butthis provedharderto
achieve than expected. The focus on physical targets (area openedto irrigation), timely
mobilization of consultants and fiduciary responsibility diverted attention from the main
goal-to    raise agricultural productivity. The new regional vice-president wantedto


57. The average land compensationpaid by DO1was Rp 136,646ka. ADB advised the Bank that land
values inthe SMIP areawere inthe range Rp 225,000 to Rp 300,00O/ha. Accordingly the Bankpressed
DO1to increase the rates of compensation.

                                               29


accelerate project implementation, encouraging his staff to give priority to disbursement
rates and physical targets. This resulted ina neglect o f the more challenging goal of
buildinginstitutional capacity. The Maoist insurgency constrained field visits. Reports
on implementation progress were patchy, with insufficient analysis o f pitfalls. There
should have been more attentionto M&Einthe early stages o f the project, and while this
issue was addressedat mid-term review, it was not satisfactorily resolved. Overall Bank
performanceis rated moderatelyunsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance

92.     Governmentperformanceduring preparation is rated moderately
satisfactory.The government was keento mobilize Bank financing for the irrigation sub-
sector as it was one o f the key components o f the agricultural prospective plan.However,
once the project had beenagreed, government was slow to set up the higher-level
coordinating committees, and these proved to be ineffective. Responsibility for the
project was devolved to DOL Government then went on to promote several macro-
economic and civil service reforms that reduced the ability o f DO1to manage the project
effectively. As far as IEG can determine, DO1was not consulted about these reforms.
Just over halfway through the project civil service reform cut M o W R staff numbersfrom
17to seven. The PCO was downgradedto a lower class organization. DOI's District
Offices were closed with staff being transferred to Divisional and Sub-divisional


93.     Agency performanceis rated moderately unsatisfactory.Highturnover o f
senior staff undermined consistent leadership: the Director General changed five times;
the Project Coordination Officer four times. Inthe regional and district offices ofDO1
staff complements were difficult to maintain because o f the insurgency. The high
turnover was aggravated by poor staff incentives. Inadequate field allowances for
agricultural extension made it hardto motivate extension agents.

94.     Central project management effectiveness was hampered by the weak monitoring
and evaluation system, the delayed training o f DO1staff, and slow recruitment ofNGOs
and civil society organizations to assist with farmer mobilization. SMIP financial
management was satisfactory-unlike       that o f the FMIS and the water resources
management components. This was partlythe result o f the large number (97) and
dispersal o f accounting centers, the difficulties o f coordinating the activities o f the four
implementing agencies59and the failure to develop computer-based management
information systems.

95.     The Project Coordinating Office, located inDOI, was understaffed and more
concerned with meeting scheme and area targets than with keeping good records. District
level management and cost centers did not receive timely training to bolster their
procurement and accounting skills and capacity and were unclear about reporting
requirements and expected standards. Procurement risksremainedhighthroughout


58. The MOWR and DO1were reorganizedfollowing the recommendationsof the Public Expenditure
Review Commission in2000. The Commission was initiated inresponseto donor pressure.
59. MOWR (DOI), DOA, WECS and DHM.

                                                 30


project implementation; and staffs unfamiliarity with Bank procedures frequently ledto
delays and the buildup of a considerable backlog of reimbursableclaims.

96.     DO1focused on that which it was good at: civil engineering construction. It failed
to coordinate closely with the agricultural department. It also proved unable to
understandthe crucial role that farmer organizations play inensuring sound operationand
managementof irrigationprojects and the collection o f ISF. DO1remained atop-down
organization, good at setting targets but less good at building the local capacity neededto
meetthem. Highturnover of staff adversely affected the operation ofmanagement
information systems andthis weakenedDOI's ability to disburse effectively. Financial
management, particularly inthe regions, was a systemic problem. At the field level, most
DO1staff membersare highly motivated; but frustrated by budgets too small to allow
themto realize potential. OverallBorrower performance is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

 5. Lessons

97.     The ISP project demonstratesthat water is anecessary butnot sufficient input for
increasingcrop yields and farmers' incomes. A more comprehensiveapproachis
required. Agricultural extension efforts inthe project were modest, doing little to boost
yields or crop diversification. How far this was a result of the Maoist insurgency is
unclear. The recently closed (2002) Agricultural Research and Extension Project failed to
improve the link betweenresearch, field application and strengthenedagricultural
extension service.60 New technological improvements were not disseminatedto farmers;
and governmentresearchremainedKathmandu-based. (And yet the preceding
agricultural extension project [1985-951had satisfactorily developed a group-centered,
participatory approachto replacethe ineffective training and visit system.) Currently
JICA is supporting the AgriculturalTraining and Extension Improvement Project andthe
Swiss Development Corporation is focusing on vegetable seed production amongpoor
and disadvantagedfarmers inremote areas ofNepal. There are severalreports about the
ineffectiveness of the public sector agricultural extension system; butno alternative
systemhas emerged. The lack of a harmonized and sector-wide approachprecludes
reform efforts that promote solutions which are more closely aligned to the highly
variable agroclimates and soils of Nepal.

98.      A similar problem exists for the irrigationsubsector. Inthe previous five years
ADB, World Bank and USAIDhave each worked with DOL However, they operatedin
isolation. Eachagency promoted its own model andthe models were sometimes
incompatible-for     example, there were conflictingproposals about how to get farmers to
pay for irrigation. Financing projects without regardto anoverall strategy for the
irrigation sector is not an effective way to press for changes ingovernment policy,
institutions and individual behavior. Program lending has a potentially bigger impact on


60. World Bank. 1998.Nepal Agricultural Researchand ExtensionProject. Credit 2977-NEP. This project
cost US$23.8million, hadan IDA credit of US$17.6million and was completed in2003. IEGrated
outcome as unsatisfactory,institutional developmentas modestand sustainability as unlikely; Borrower
performancewas ratedunsatisfactory.

                                               31


the ways sectorsare managedandonpolicies andregulations that affect economic
incentives. It is particularly important for the agricultural andwater sector to seek a
consensus among government agencies, donors, and concernedNGOs about what can be
done, who will do it, andhow. This more comprehensiveapproachwould link irrigation
and agricultural reformpolicies to higher level macro-economic instrumentsto improve
agricultural sector performance. More attention is neededto targeting the poorest.

99.     The Nepal RuralWater Supplyand Sanitation Project andthe Poverty Alleviation
Funddemonstratethat the private sector andNGOs can offer an alternative to central
government agenciesthat are unable or unwillingto reform. Project design failed to
tackle DOI's ineffective businesspractices, relying too muchon technical assistance to
introduce reformto farmers. The same approach was evident inother water sectors.
Support to urbanwater supply and sanitation continued to center on ineffective
centralized institutions. The Bank hadmore success with ruralwater supply and
sanitation. It createdan autonomous FundBoard that worked through the private sector
andNGOs. This approachhas succeeded butneeds futher strengthening, particularly
mobilizationof local funding and linking itto district development planning. This model
could be extendedto the irrigationsector.

100.    Self-employment inagriculture andwage-employmentjointly account for more
than halfthe income of the pooresthouseholds inNepal. Inthe absence of alternative
livelihoods, effective measures to improve agriculture sector performance are vital for
reducing poverty. Within agriculture, growth of staple crops has fallen behindthat of
livestock, horticulture and fruit. Cereals still dominate and yields improve only slowly.

101.    Given the Bank's mandateto alleviate poverty, was itjustified to spend so much
on the SMIP project for sucha modest increaseinirrigated area?Higher levels of
incremental agricultural production were achieved inthe FMIS at a quarter of the cost per
ha. Project assistance to the SMIP was precededby three other Bank credits totaling $128
million inpresentprices. To date, the government has also investedUS$74 million inthis
project. And yet there are still 800,000 hectares of rain-fed cultivable landinNepal,
muchof it located inthe most poverty-stricken western and far westernregions. The
productivity of rain-fed agriculture needs boosting and particular attention is neededto
improve understandingof terrain and agro-climate and to assist farmers to adopt small-
scale irrigation. There are many NGOs inNepalcapable of doing this work as
demonstratedby the success of the farmer-managedirrigationsystems.

102.    Finally, monitoringand evaluation of the agriculture sector needs strengthening.
The partial privatization of agricultural input supply has left holes innational databases.
Information, for example, on the use of fertilizer and groundwater is lacking.
Comprehensivestatistical data is a significant public good that is essentialto inform
sounddecision-making andpublic policy.

                                            32


Lessons

103.  Experiencewith this project confirms five IEGlessons:

      A more comprehensive approachis requiredto maximize benefits from improved
      agricultural water management.Water is only one input among many;
      institutional development and capacity building are equally important; as are
      agricultural inputs and marketing.
      Donors need to work together more effectively, with eachworking to their
      comparative advantage, the aim being to achieve a harmonized sector-wide
      approachthat avoids duplication and contradictions. InNepalthis assessment
      found while it made sense for donors' projects to be geographically differentiated
      this was at the expense of sector-wide coordination andmutual learning.
      Do not lose sight of project beneficiaries. Too muchattention to water resource
      policy and managementdeflected attention from the need to reformpublic sector
      managementof large-scaleirrigationprojects and improve service-delivery. As a
      result the longer-term sustainability of the public irrigation subsector and farmer's
      livelihoods dependent on it are at highrisk inNepal.
      Non-governmental organizations are generally better at working with farmers to
      increasethe productivity of small-scalefarmer-managedirrigation systems. The
      project clearly demonstratedthat partnershipwith NGOs inNepalenabled
      agricultural productivity improvements inremote locations where the poorest
      rural communities are located.
      Greater attention should be given to monitoring and evaluation to ensure informed
      policy-making and decision-making. InNepal the scope of data collection and
      storageof data on agricultural input and output performance information
      significantly contracted during the transition from public to private service
      provision.

                                                         33                                            Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

NEPALIRRIGATION PROJECT(CREDIT 3009-NEP)
                                 SECTOR DEVELOPMENT

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                    Appraisal            Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                     estimate        current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                   103.01               90.86                     88
Loan amount                                           79.78*               68.42                     86
Cofinancing
Cancellation                                                                9.6
 Due to appreciationof the SDR, the original loan amount had increasedto US$88.96by project completion.


CumulativeEstimated and Actual Disbursements
                FY98         FY99           FYOO        FYOl         FY02       FY03         FY04       FY05
Appraisal         4.3        17.9            39.5        61.9        75.2       79.2          79.2      79.2
estimate
(US$M)
Actual             0          8.8            20.5        37.5        52.8       63.1          67.1      68.4
(US$M)
Actual as                      49             52          61          70         79           85         86
% of
appraisal
Date of final disbursement:            10/28/2004


Project Dates
                                                              Original                        Actual
PCD                                                                                          0611811997

Appraisal                                                                                    09/29/1997

Board approval                                                                               11/25/1997

Effectiveness                                              12/30/1997                        0911711998

MTR                                                        1213111999                        05/04/2000
Closing date                                               06/30/2002                        06/30/2004

Annex B                                                  34


StaffInputs (ActuaULatest Estimate)
      Stage of Project Cycle                        Staff weeks                               US$ (`000)
  Identification/Preparation                           217.00                                    214.0 *
  AppraisaVNegotiation                                  85.80                                    71.9 **
  Supervision                                          386.11                                     553.8
  ICR                                                    8.00                                     44.00
  Total
  Cost of FAO/CPstaff inputs in 1987 and 1988 not included.
**There appearsto be some confusionin the `legacy' system records. Thus in FY 98 and FY 99 some staff
inputs are recordedas Supervisionwhen in fact they were inputsfor appraisal. In the absenceof a more
detailed breakdownthe inputsfor FY 98 have been listed here as part of the appraisalwhilst the inputs for
FY 99 have been listed as supervision.

MissionData
              Date                   No. of              Specializations                 Implement.       Develop
         (monthlyear)              persons                 represented                       Status       objectives
IdentificationlPreparation
         1987                         8          Economist(2);FinanciaLAnalyst;
                                                 IrrigationEngineer;Credit
                                                 Specialist; Unidentified(3)

         1988                         13         Economist; IrrigationEngineer(2);
                                                 Agronomist; Financial.Analyst;
                                                 Others(8)

         1989                         6          Agronomist; IrrigationEngineer;
                                                 FinancialSpecialist;
                                                 Unidentified(2); Others(1)

         1990                         4          Unidentified(2); Others(2)

         1991                         8          FinancialAnalyst; Irrigation
                                                 Engineer;Agronomist(2);
                                                 Unidentified(2);Others(2)

         1992                         6          IrrigationEngineer; Economist;
                                                 Unidentified(2);Others(2)

         1993                         4          Economist; Environmentalist;
                                                 Unidentified(2)

         1994                         2          Economist;Agriculturalist

         1995                         9          Economist; Irrigation
                                                 Engineer; Agriculturalist(2);
                                                 0thers(5)

         1996                         10         Irrigation Engineer(2);
                                                 Economist;Agriculuralist(2);
                                                 Others(5)
AppraisallNegotiation
         1997                         22         Irrigation.Engineer@);
                                                 Economist(3);
                                                 Agriculturalist(3);Financial
                                                 Analvst:Environmentalist:

                                              35                                      Annex A


             Date             No. of          Specializations              Implement. Develop
- - - - - -__
        (monthlyear)                           represented
        1998-   -.- ---                                                     status    objectives
                    .       __persons
                                ___
                               16     1rrigation-EngineeT(4),---        ...

                                      Economist(4);Agriculturalist(2);
                                      FinancialAnalyst(2);
                                      Environmentalist;Others(4)

        1998                    8     Irrigation .Engineer(2);
                                      Economist(3);
                                      Agriculturalist(2); Others(2)
Supervision
        28/6-7/7/1998
                                6     Irrigation .Engineer;
                                      Economist(2);
                                      Agriculturalist(2);Others
        Supervision(1)                                                         S
        27/10-15/11/1998        7     Irrigation .Engineer; Economist;
        (PSR 12/09/1998)              Agriculturalist(2); Sociologist;
                                      Others
        Supervision(2)                                                         S
        28/5-15/6/1999          5     Irrigation .Engineer(2);
        (PSR 6112/1999)               Agriculturalist(2); Sociologist

        Supervision(3)          9     Irrigation Engineer;                     S
        4-16/12/1999                  Agriculturalist(2); Sociologist;
                                      Others(5)


        Review of WRS           3     Irrigation Engineer;Water                S
        9-15/1/2000                   Resources(2)

        Mid Term Review
        4-25/5/2000             14    Irrigation Engineer(2);                  S
        (PSR 06/14/2000)              Economists(3);Agriculturalist(3);
                                      Sociologist(2); FinancialAnalyst;
                                      Environmentalist;Others(2)
        Supervision(5)
        19/11-11/12/2000        9     Irrigation Engineer;                     S          S
                                      Economist;AgricuIturalist(2);
                                      Financial Analyst; Others(4)
        Supervision(6)
        4-18/6/2001             6     Irrigation Engineer;                     S          S
                                      Agriculturalist; FinancialAnalyst;
                                      Sociologist;Others(2)

        Supervision(7)          6     Irrigation Engineer;                     S          S
                                      Agriculturalist; FinancialAnalyst;
                                      Sociologist;Others(2)

        Supervision(8)          6     Irrigation Engineer; Economist:          S          S
                                      Agriculturalist(2); Others(2)
        Supervision(9)                Irrigation Engineer;Economist;           S          S
          9-30/9/2002           13    Agriculturalist(2); Financial
                                      Analyst;Others(7)
        Supervision(11)         7     Irrigation Engineer(2);                  S          S
          16/11-5/12/2003             Agriculturalist; FinancialAnalyst;
        (PSR 02/16/2004)              Sociologist; Others(4)

        Supervision(l2)               Irrigation Engineer(2)                   S          S

Annex B                                      36


            Date             No. of          Specializations           Implement,   Develop
        (month/year)        persons            represented              status     objectives
          June 2004
                    _ _ -                        - - --                -
ICR                                                                                    s
                                                        ...       - .
                               4     -lrr/gation Engineer(2);              S
        1-5/7/2004                   Agriculturalist; Economist




Other ProjectData
BorrowerIExecuting Agency:
FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
                  Operation                   Credit no.       Amount         Board date
                                                             (US$ million)
Irrigation and Water Resources Management        C3380          50.80          12/06/07

                                       37                                 Annex B


Annex B. Nepal All Externally-fundedIrrigation and
                      -
AgricultureProjects

Table B1:IrrigationSector Projects

  Agency         Years             Development Project          Loan millions

World Bank    2007-2013   Irrigation & Water Resources
                          Management                              US$50.0

World Bank    1997-2004   Irrigation Sector Project               US$68.4
World Bank    1992-1997   Sunsari Morang Headworks                US$23.4
World Bank    1990-1999   Bhairawa Lumbini IrrigationIll          US$51.9
World Bank    1988-1998   Mahakali IrrigationII                   US$42.5
World Bank    1988-1997   IrrigationLine of Credit subproject     US$lS.O
World Bank    1986-1995   Narayani IrrigationIll                  US$24.5
World Bank    1983-1990   Bhairawa Lumbini IrrigationII           US$16.0
World Bank    1980-1988   MahakaliIrrigationI                     US$16.0
World Bank    1987-1995   Sunsari Morang IrrigationII             US$40.0
World Bank    1978-1987   Sunsari Morang Irrigation I             US$30.0
World Bank    1978-1986   Narayani IrrigationII                   US$14.0
World Bank    1976-1982   Bhairawa Lumbini IrrigationI            US$9.0
World Bank    1973-1981   Birganj Irrigation-Narayani I           US$6.0
ADB           1996-2002   Irrigation Sector II                    US$33.0
ADB           1994-2001   Irrigation ManagementTransfer           SDR 9.0
ADB           1992-2000   Rajapur Irrigation                     SDR 12.2
ADB           1992-1998   East Rapti irrigation                  SDR 7.53
ADB           1989-1996   IrrigationSector I                      US$33.1
European
Union         1997-2001   Irrigation Development                 ECU 8.35

Saudi Fund    1995-2000   Bhaimati IrrigationII                  Riyals 74.0
Saudi Fund    1988-1997   Bagmati IrrigationI                    Riyals 30.0
IFAD          1994-2000   Groundwater Irrigation                  US$7.6
OPEC          1995-1999  Chanda Mohana Irrigation                 US$8.5
Netherlands   1992-1997   Mechi Hill Irrigation                  NRS. 11.8
UNCDF                     Marchawar IrrigationII                  US$5.6

Annex B                                38



 Table B2: Agricultural Sector Projects

                                                                        Loan US$
        Agency          Dates             DevelopmentProject
                                                                        millions
 World Bank            1998-2003  Agricultural Research and Extension     23.8

 UWODA                 1996-2003  Hill Agricultural Research              19.9
 SDC Technical
 Cooperation           1996-2001  Vegetable Seed Production                5.0
 SDC Technical
 Cooperation           1986-1996  Vegetable and Potato Seed             not known

 ADB                   1996-2001  Third Livestock Development             28.2

 European Union        1995-2001  Strengthening of Veterinary Services
                                  and Livestock Disease Control           11.0

 GTZ                   1992-1997  Promotion of Livestock Breeding         10.0

 USAID                 1991-1996  Improvement of Research Management
                                  Agro-enterprise Technology Systems      12.0

                                  Vegetable Seed Production and Fruit
 USAID                 1991-1996  Improvement in Western Region-Market     7.2
                                  Access for Rural Development

 ADB                   1989-1997  Secondary Crops Development              7.0

                                                              39                                                  Annex C


Annex C. EconomicAnalysis

Annex C1: Sunsai Morang Irrigation Project EconomicAnalysis

Baseline Cropplng andNetReivrns updated at Mid-term Review              Ex Postbasedon DO15 SMlP Croppinglnventoty 2008-200;

Wlthout Project 1995-1996         Total Area Net Returns Net Returns    Total Area    Project   Net Return Incremental
ProposedArea of 11,500ha                     Rs Million    Der ha                  Area         Million Rp MillionRp

Kharif     Irrigated paddy- H W        2,659          36      13,539       57,519        10,176         138        102
           Irrigated Paddy- Local        886           9       3,385         1,856          328           1         -8
           Rainfedpaddy                6,755          49      18,428             0            0           0        4 9
           Jute Irrigated                  0           0           0             0            0           0          0
           Jute Rainfed                 1,218          0           0             0            0           0          0
           Pulses                          0           0           0           682          121           0          0
           Oilseeds                        0           0           0             0            0           0          0
           Vegetables                      0                       0           508           90           0          0
Rabl       Wheat                        3,876         34      12,787       38,715         6,850          88        54
           Oilseeds                     1,107         12       4,513         1,704          301           1        -11
           Pulses                       1,661         16        8,017      11,317         2,002          12         -4
           Potato  - Irrigated            111          2          752        1,240          219           0         -2
           Potato- Rainfed               554          12        4,513            0            0           0        -12
           Vegetables                     200          7        2,633        2,210          391           1         -6
           Sugamane                       111          2          752        2,159          382           0         -2
Spring CroiJute                            0                                 2,020          357           0          0
           Paddy                           0                               15,242         2,714          37         37
           Pulses                          0                                 7,674         1,358          0          0
           Vegtables                       0                                  1,840         326           1          1


Summary Total projed Area             11,000                               68,000         11,500
           Total CroppedArea          19,138         179                  213,061        25,665
           Summer                     11,518                               63,925         10,715
           Rabi                         7,620                              57,355         10,146
           Spring                          0                               31,463         4,804
           Cropping Intensity           174%                                              223%

Source: DOI/SMiP annualcroppingnport 2007.

Economic Rate of Return Calculation

Economic Cash Flows Rp Millions

    Year       Investment ExtensioniTrainingOBM         Total        Incremental     Cash Flow
                                                        costs         Benefits
 1996       1               0                2                  2                             -2
            2             381                2               383                           -383
            3             457                2    25         484                  20       -464
            4             520                     25         545                  50       -495
            5             531                     25         556                  75       -481
            6                                     25          25                 100         75
            7                                     25          25                 103         77
            8                                     25          25                 105         80
            9                                     25          25                 108         83
          10                                      25          25                 110         85
 2006     11                                      25          25                 113         88
          12                                      25          25                 116         91
          13                                      25          25                 119         94
          14                                      25          25                 122         97
          15                                      25          25                 125        100
          16                                      25          25                 128        103
          17                                      25          25                 131        106
          18                                      25          25                 134        109
          19                                      25          25                 138        113
          20                                      25          25                 141        116
          21                                      25          25                 145        120
          22                                      25          25                 148        123
          23                                      25          25                 152        127
          24                                      25          25                 156        131


                                                                  ERR                      0.9%


                                                41                                          Annex D


Annex D.BorrowerComments

Dear Mr.John Heath

        Re:NEPAL -IrrigationSector Project(Credit 3009 NEP) Draft Project
                  PerformanceAssessment Report

Please find below our comments on the above said PPAR.

    1.  The cropping intensity in Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project (SMIP) has increased
        from 160% in 1998-99 to 237% in 2006-07 which is more than anticipated duringthe
       project appraisal.
    2. The yields o f summer paddy and wheat, the major crops inthe area, have increased to
        more than 4tha and 2.5t/ha respectively after the implementation o f the project.
        These values match well with the appraisal expectations.
    3. There are more than 1500 watercourse, serving 28ha block, in SMIP that are cleaned
        twice a year by the W A S .This shows that the farmers' contribution towards the
        O&M o f the project is remarkable.
    4. The decrease in ISF collection after 2002-03 is mainly due to the insurgency problem
        that restrictedthe field level activities o f the project staff. It is expected to increase in
        the future.
    5. Department o f Irrigation (DoI) i s concerned about the O&M fund requirement for
        SMIP. Accordingly an amount o f NRs. 39.4 million has been increased in the
        originally allocated amount o f NRs. 30 million for the current Fiscal Year. The
        amount is expected to increase considerably in the future as NRs. 200 million has
        been proposed and already discussed with the Ministry o f Finance for the coming
        Fiscal Year. One excavator which will be helpful in coping with the siltation problem
        inthe canals will be purchasedout ofthis amount
    6. The dredgers, though were supposed to be replaced after 9 years, are still functioning
        well after 12 years. And Do1is planning to purchase a new dredger in the near future
        from the O&M budget to be allocated.
IwouldliketomentionthatSMIPisalsoprovidingirrigationinanareaofabout15000hafor
SpringPaddy, which was not anticipated during the appraisal of the project, contributing to
overall increase in production. The dredgers have a critical role in it. With DoVGovernment
o f Nepal being serious about the O&M fund requirement o f the project; increased cropping
intensity and yield o f major crops as well as farmer's involvement in O&M; we are o f the
opinion that the project will be sustainable.


                                                                                     Yours Sincerely

                                                                                 Ani1Kumar Pokhrel
                                                                             Deputy Director General
                                                                             Department o f Irrigation

cc: Ms.Monika Huppi, Manager Sector Evaluation Division, World Bank




