Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6786
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
May 19, 1987
Industrial Development and Finance Division
South Asia Projects Department
T:iis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS a/
(annual averages)
Rs per US$1.00        US$ per Rs 1.00
FY82             10.55                 0.095
FY83             12.75                 0.078
FY84             13.50                 0.074
FY85             15.30                 0.065
FY86             16.90                 0.059
a/ Since January 8, 1982, the exchange rate for the rupee has been managed
with respect to a weighted basket of currencies.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACCRONYMS
ABL     -  Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited
BLGSC   -  Bannu Leather Goods Service Center
BLSMA   -  Bannu Leather and Shoe Manufacturers Association
DSI     -  Directorate for Small Industries
EPB     -  Export Promotion Bureau
GFMA    -  Gujrat Furniture Makers Association
GOP     -  Government of Pakistan
GWSC    -  Gujrat Woodworking Service Center
HBL     -  Habib Bank Limited
IDBP    -  Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
MCB     -  Muslim Commercial Bank
NBP     -  National Bank of Pakistan
NWFP    -  North West Frontier Province
PBC     -  Pakistan Banking Council
PCI     -  Participating Credit Institution
PSIC    -  Punjab Small Industries Corporation
SBP     -  State Bank of Pakistan
SIC     -  Small Industries Corporation
SID     -  Small Industries Department
SIDB    -  Small Industries Development Board
SSI     -  Small Scale Industries
SSI I   -  First Small Industries Project
SSI II  -  Second Small IndusLries Project
SSI III -  Third Small Industries Project
SSIC    -  Sind Small Industries Corporation
UBL     -  United Bank Limited
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government of Pakistan: July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks       : January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD 8ANK
Washington. DC 20431
U S A
Oice of oieeclno-enetal
Ope..tawns Eajluit,n
May 19, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan - First Small Industries
Project (Credit 1113-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Pakistan - First Small Industries Project (Credit
1113-PAK)" prepared by the South Asia Projects Department. Under the
modified system for project performance auditiag further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
-''
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES EIA'JECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................... .*i
Basic Data Sheet ..........................           ..       .    *      ii
Highlights   ..iv
I.  INTRODUCrION ........99.......                                       1
II. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A.  Economic Setting  ...        ............................. .   2
B.  The Industrial Sec                        t      o       r       2
C.  Financial Environment.i rn m...    *...           en t.... ...    3
D.  Small Scale Industries Sectore          ct...o... or......       4
III.  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                   ..........                     6
A.     Orgn6
B. Project Objectives...............................   6
C. Project Components... .................... ..... .                7
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMETATION     ...T.......                                8
A.  Subloan Compone m           p.......    8
1. Stat-ua.r                       t.-           u p.... ...    8
2. Timetable. .............. ......... 94.9.  9994   8
3. Subproject Apiaa                       i    s    a    l      9
4. Supervision and Coliection Performance........              9
5. Repotin*.,n..                                               10
6. Procurements and Disbursements...                           10
B.  Technical Assistance Compponn                  ents................   11
1. Gujrat Woodworking Service Center..*.........               11
2. Bannu Leather Goods Service Center..,.o ....*...   12
3. Export Promotion...o9.9  *.4.999 9 99 9 9 94.o 49 o   13
4. Project Development for Baluchistana.ech,...a......    15
5. Fund for Subsector Studies and Project
Preparation....        ..       ...*949....   ... **.  15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.   PROJECT IMPACT ............................ ....,.....*..    16
A.    Subprojects  Financed    ...............................    16
B.  Institution Building *****@@@*o*O***¢                         18
VI.  ROLE OF IDA                           .                           20
VtI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ..............., ..........       20
ANNEXES
1.   Projected and Actual Cu' .lative Disbursements                    23
2.   Characteristics of Subprojects Financed ....................    24
3.   Collection Performance of PCIs from FY82-86 .,....,......,...    26
4.   Subloan Arrears 9999099 , 9   ..............**    *               27
ATTACHMENT I
Comments Received from the Industrial Development
Bank of Pakistan . . . 9 . . , .  * , , .   ,  , a    .................    28



-i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
PREFACE
This report reviews the implementation of Credit 1113-PAK, which was
the first small scale industry lending operation of the Bank Group in
Pakistan. The report covers the period from FY82 to FY86, during which
disbursements under this Credit were made. The IDA Credit of SDR 23.6 mil-
lion (US$30 million) was appraised in June 1980, approved in March 1981,
declared effective in October 1981, and disbursed until December 27, 1985,
within the original closing date of December 31, 1985. There was no cancel-
lation since the full amount was disbursed. A second lending operation for
SSI was approved on June 14, 1984 and is still being implemented. A proposed
Third SSI Project has been appraised and is expected to be presented to the
Board in FY87. This PCR was prepared by the Industrial Development and
Finance Division of the South Asia Projects Department based on information
collected and processed for this purpose by the project implementing
agencies.
Comments received from the Borrower have been taken into account in
finalizing the report and are reproduced as an Attachment.
This project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



-ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(Amounts in US$M)
CREDIT STATUS
As of 03/31/87
Borrower's
Original   Disbursed   Cancelled  Repaid   Obligation
Credit 1113-PAK
SDR                 23.6         23.6          0         -           -
US$m                30.0         24.5          0          0         30.3
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY81      FY82       FY83       FY84       FY85      FY86
(i)   Planned         G.5        8.7        21.9       28.5       30.0      30.0
(ii)  Actual           -         0.1         2.8       22.1      29.6      30.0
(iii)  (ii) as% of      -         1.2%       12.8%      77.6%      98.7%    100%
_ (i
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Actual
Board Approval                                           03/17/81
Credit Agreement                                         04/24/81
Effectiveness                                            10/06/81
Credit Closing                                           12/31/85
Borrower                          Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Executing Agencies                Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
Nationalized Commercial Banks
Provincial Small Industries Corporations
Export Promotion Bureau
Credit Components
Subloans                        US$26.0 million
Technical Assistance            US$ 4.0  million



-iii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
MISSION DATA
Month/    Number of        Number of         Staff      Date of
Year       Weeks           Persons         Weeks       Report
Appraisal        06/80       3                  5             15        02/20/81
Supervision      09/81       2 1/2              2              5        10/07/81
Supervision      07/82      2                   1              2        08/16/82
Supervision      03/83      2                   1              2        04/08/83
Supervision      10/83      3                   4             12        11/22/83
Supervision      03/84      2                   4              8        05/11/84
Supervision      05/85       1 1/2              4              6        06/14/85
Completion       09/85       1                  3              3        10/31/86
STAFF INPUT
(manweeks)
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85   FY86  Total
Preparation      48.0                                                    48.0
Appraisal        15.0                                                    15.0
Negotiations             6.0                                              6.0
Supervision                       5.0     4.0      20.0    6.0    3.0   38.0
Totals       63.0    6.0       5.0     4.0      20.0    6.0    3.0  107.0
FOLLOW-ON PROJECT
Second Small Industries Project, Credit 1499-PAK, approved on
June 14, 1984 in the amount of SDR 47.0 miflion (US$50 million).



-iv-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
HIGHLIGHTS
1.      Credit 1113-PAK, which was signed in April 1981, was the first
project in Pakistan dealing exclusively with the small scale industry (SSI)
sector.  Previously, IDA assistance to SSI was part of general credit lines
for industry and was confined to financial assistance. Based on the findings
of studies, jointly undertaken by UNIDO and IDA, of five key SSI subsectors,
the First SSI Project was designed to expand assistance to SSI by involving
the five largest commercial banks in SSI financing and including project
components that provided technical and marketing assistance.
2.      The First SSI Project had the following specific objectives:  (a) to
encourage the development of SSI units that are export-oriented or are effi-
cient in import-substitution by providing funds for term lending through the
commercial banks; (b) to assist in orienting the commercial banks toward a
longer term project appraisal approach in their SSI lending; (c) to assist
two provincial Small Industries Corporations (SIC) in providing selected
technical assistance, extension services and skills training in woodworking
and leather goods; (d) to expand the export promotion of SSI products; and
(e) to initiate project development exercises in Baluchistan
(paras. 3.03-3.05).
3.      Overall, the project achieved its objectives satisfactorily.  The
project assisted the commercial banks in building their capability for
project lending by training staff in appraisal and supervision and by
developing appropriate systems and procedures for loan processing, procure-
ment and disbursement, loan administration and end-use monitoring. With
Small Industry Departments organized at their headquarters and operational
linkages established with their branches, the five participating credit
institutions (PCI) fully disbursed the Credit to 654 subprojects on scheduie.
These loans generated investments of about US$80 million, 45% higher than the
appraisal estimate of US$54 million. Subsector distribution of subprojects
was basically as expected at appraisal, with concentration in agro-
industries, light-engineering and textiles. Average subloan size was about
US$42,000, much lower than the maximum amount allowed of US$200,000, indicat-
ing that adequate attention was given to smaller units. The subprojects
financed generated about 12,800 jobs at a cost per job of about US$6,000,
compared with the appraisal estimate of 13,000 jobs. Annual incremental
value added is estimated to be about US$50 million. Ex-post financial rates
of return of fully operational subprojects ranged between 18 and 45%
(paras. 5.01-5.05).
4.      The project established the basis for the development of sound
institutional arrangements for SSI financing. Using the commercial banks,
with their branch network, close contact with SSI industrialists, ability to
mobilize domestic resources and traditional role in working capital
financing, has proved to be a sound arrangement. With the additional skills
in project appraisal and supervision developed under the project, the commer-
cial banks have a demonstrated capability for selecting subproject sponsors,



_v
appraising project proposals, disbursing subloans and supervising end-use.
Given long term funds, the banks have prudently term transformed some of
their own resources into long ter.n SSI subloans by cofinancing 20% of all
subloan3. With their close contact with clients through other banking
relationships, subloan collection performance, after an initial problem, has
reached a ratio of 82% and is still improving. Overall, the SSI sector's
access to institutional credit has i-acreased under the present financing
system, with credit from the commercial banks accounting for about 40% of SSI
investment needs, up from 30% in the past (paras. 5.06-5.10).
5.      Implementation of the technical assistance (TA) components were
completed on schedule despite start-up delays. The impact of the TA com-
ponents has been less impressive than that of the subloan component but still
generally positive, resulting in the establishment of two service centers
which have started to provide useful technical training and services to a
pre-identified clientele (paras. 4.13-4.19). The project preparation fund
was effective in assisting over 600 subloan applicants in preparing their
loan applications and feasibility reports for submission to the PCIs
(paras. 4.29-4.31). Subsector studies and area development studies for
Baluchistan have been prepared and are being utilized to improve project
promotion and selection (paras. 4.26-4.28). The export promotion component
succeeded in introducing several Pakistani exporters and products to the U.S.
market (paras. 4.20-4.25).
6.      Institution building for the technical assistance agencies has also
not been as successful as for the PCIso The common problem has been §.he lack
of qualified counterpart staff who could be trained on-the-job in the course
of project implementation. This problem was especially true of the
Government of Baluchistan which could not provide counterpart staff and could
not organize a unit for project promotion as envisioned at appraisal. To a
lesser degree, the same problem was encountered for the Bannu Leather Goods
Service Center and the export promotion component. Transfer of technology
from consultants to counterpart staff was adequate only in the case of the
Gujrat Woodworking Service Center. Another major reason for weak institution
building was the poor performance of some project advisors. This was espe-
cially true of the export promotion component under which the advisors were
not only appointed late but apparently did not meet the qualifications
specified in the terms of reference. Efforts by the consulting group to
remedy the situation on the basis of feedback by the project agencies were
insufficient, The problems dragged on until the project was completed
(paras. 5.11-5.14)v
7.      In summary, for the most part, the project objectives were achieved.
The subloan components not only provided financial assistance to more SSI
units than expected at appraisal but established the basis for developing a
sound SSI credit delivery system. The TA components also achieved their
direct objectives.  However, institution building objectives implicit in the
implementation of these components was weak due to problems with some coun-
terpart staff and advisors.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    In the past, IDA assistance for small industry development in
Pakistan focused principally on the provision of investment funds to SSI
units through the development finance institution (DFI) which looked after
industrial finance for the small and medium industries sector, i.e. the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP). In 1977, UNIDO, with IDA
assistance, undertook a study of five important SSI subsectors to assess
their status, analyze problems and prospects, and recommend assistance
programs for SSI development. Th,is study served as the basis for the design
of the First Small Industries Project (SSI I), which proposed expansion of
SSI financing by involving the five nationalized commercial banks (NCB) and
complementing financial assistance with project components addressing techni-
cal and marketing problems blockis.g SSI growth and diversificaLion. The
project was appraised in June 1980, was signed in April 1981 and became
effective in October 1981.
1.02    After a slow start, due mainly to the new institutional set-up,
project implementation quickly accelerated, with the Credit fully disbursed
on schedule by December 31, 1985. The credit component financed 654
subprojects, resulting in investments of about US$80 million. Financing went
mainly to growth SSI subsectors as expected during appraisal, with concentra-
tion in agro-industries, light-engineering and textiles. Average subloan
size was about US$42,000, much lower than the maximum allowable amount of
US$200,000, indicating that adequate credit access was maintained for smaller
units. The subprojects financed generated about 12,800 jobs at a cost per
job of about US$6,000. Annual incremental value added is estimated to be
about US$50 million. Ex-post financial rates of return of fully operational
subprojects ranged between 18% and 45%.
1.03    SSI I had a substantial impact on the NCBs' organization and staffing
for SSI lending. At the headquarters of each bank, a Small Industries
Department (SIi) was created to undertake project appraisal. Training on SSI
lending procedures was imparted to SID officers as well as over 400 branch
officers. Although appraisal initially was centralized at the banks'
headquarters, the branches were made responsible for receiving and screening
applications, loan disbursement and administration and project supervision.
Emphasis on project financing, in addition to creditworthiness analysis,
sharpened the NCBs' project selection capabilities and improved their systems
and procedures. Given matching maturity funds under the credit, the PCIs
increased their portfolio of SSI loans by blending their own short-term
funds. Overall, the project improved SSI's access to institutional credit
sources.
1.04    Implementation of the technical assistance (TA) components of SSI I
were also completed on schedule. The impact of the TA components was less
impressive than that of the subloan component, but still generally positive.
The project established two service centers which provide focussed technical
training and services to a pre-identified clientele. The project preparation



-2-
fund was effective in assisting over 600 subloan applicants prepare their
loan applications and feasibility reports for submission to the PCIs.
Subsector studies and area development studies have been prepared and are
being utilized to improve project promotion and selection. The export promo-
Lion component succeeded in introducing several Pakistani exporters and
products to the U.S. market. Institution building of the TA agencies,
however, was weak due to leck of qualified counlterpart staff and the poor
performance of some project advisors.
11. SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
2.01    Beginning in the late 1970s, COP embarked on a program of reforms to
achieve financial stability, high growth and a revival of private sector
confidence. Progress during Lhe Fifth Plan period (FY79-FY83) was con-
siderable despite adverse external factors, including the 1979 oil shock,
a world recession, a 30% decline in the external terms of trade, and the
Afghanistan crisis with its attendant requirements for defense and refugee
assistance expenditures. GOP restored financial discipline by reducing
budget deficits and bank borrowings and by enforcing stricter monetary
policies. Improvements in financial management were combined with price
adjustments, aimed at correcting economic distortions and a program of
longer-term reforms in key productive sectors. As a result of these actiuns,
the economy, expanded rapidly, growing at an average of over 6%; inflation
rates declined gradually, private sector confidence increased, and a manage-
able balance of payments situation was maintained. Growth performance was
good in industry, agriculture, energy and exports.
2.02    Pakistan's steadily improving economic performance was interrupted in
FY84, due to an unexpected downturn in agriculture and migrant remittances,
and the carry-over of inflationary pressures built-up in the previous year.
GDP growth in FY84 slowed to 3.5% and pressures on thc- balance of payments
emerged as the slowdown in the Middle East began to be reflected on remit-
tance flows and lower demand for Pakistan exports. FY85 was again a dif-
ficult year for Pakistan's economy. Although economic growth recovered from
the slump in FY84, with real CDP growing at 8.4%, the balance of payments
continued the deterioration begun in FY84, and the budgetary outcome worsened
considerably. The current account deticit increased due to lower remittances
and exports, forcing a larger than expected drawdown on reserves, reducing
them to about two months worth of imports. Increased budget deficits, equiv-
alent to 3.9% of GDP, resulted in larger government borrowings from the
banking system. Although economic growth in FY86 is likely to remain high,
there is considerable uncertainty over Pakistan's external position and the
budget deficit.
B. The Industrial Sector
2.03    Pakistan has a reasonably diversified industrial base.  Textiles,
which accounted for about 30% of manufacturing value added in the early
19O0s, now constitute only 15%. Other important sectors include food
processing, engineering goods, cement and fertilizers. Manufactured and
semi-manufactured goods represented over 70% of total exports, although more
than half are cotton products. Other major exports consist of carpets,
leather products, synthetic textiles and fish products. Since the late
seventies, the government has assigned a lead role to the private sector in



-3-
industrial development, reversing to some extent, the nationalizations of the
mid-seventies, opening up areas for private investment and reducing invest-
ment in public sector enterprises. PrivaLe industrial investment grew by an
average of 16.6% p.a. during FY79-FY85. The private sector, which in FY79
accounted for only 27% of manufacturing investment, increased its share to
70% in FY85. The improved policy environment, which has contributed to a
resurgence of private sector confidence, has led to increased growth in
output and investment. During FY79-FY84, the real growth of manufacturing
value added averaged 10.4% p.a., compared to 3.3% p.a. in the preceding five
years. Sectoral pertormance in FY85 remained strong, but growth slowed to
8.6%. A similar rate of growth is anticipated for FY86 in line with recent
production trends and investmenL levels.
2.04    Although improved industrial performance in the eighties has been
noteworthy, sustained growth will depend on continued improvements in the
incentive structure, further relaxation of government controls, increased
availability of infrastructure and improved performance of public
enterprises. The industrial sector continues to be promoted in a protected
environment, largely sustained by import substitution policies. Exports ar2
considered marginaL to most production and investment decisions and tend to
fluctuate in response to short-run changes in incentives. The tariff struc-
ture requires modification to provide a more uniform level of effective
protection and reduce the import substitution bias. Although industrial
controls have been liberalized, industry is still hampered by government
controls on investments, imports, access to foreign exchange, company forma-
tion and pricing. Infrastructure deficiencies, especially in energy, are a
major cause of project delays and undermine capacity utilization. Public
enterprises affected by price controls operate under cost-plus arrangements
which discourage operational efficiency.
C. Financial Environment
2.05    The Financial Sector.  The financial system in Pakistan consists of:
five nationalized commercial banks (NCBs); seventeen foreign commercial
banks; four specialized scheduled banks; nine development finance institu-
tions (DFIs); several insurance companies; two leasing companies; two stock
exchanges; and a housing finance corporation. The State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP), the central bank, regulates and supports the banking system within
overall policies set by COP.  The Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) oversees and
coordinates the activities of the NCBs and fulfills many of the functions
previously discharged by their former private shareholders.  The Ministry of
Finance monitors the operations of the other financial institutions. The
commercial banking sector is the most important part of the financial system,
with total assets as of June 30, 1985 of Rs 320 billion, or about 90% of the
total assets of the system. In turn, the NCBs account for 90% of the banking
business in the country. NCBs are also important in terms of geographic
coverage, with 7,000 branches Lhroughout the country.
2.06    Two important developments have characterized the financial environ-
ment recently. The first is the diversification of functions by the institu-
tions in the system. Unlike in the past when the commercial banks were
engaged mainly in short-term lending and the development finance institutions
in long-term lending, the commercial banks now provide more long-term financ-
ing to agriculture and industry while the development finance institutions
now complement their term loans with short-term working capital loans. The
investment banks rely on the commercial banks to back up their  .nderwritillg
commitments. Leasing companies are being established by commercial banks and



-4-
DFIs. With these developments, the system has acquired some flexibility, but
the general approach by GOP and the central bank is one of cautious and
measured steps. A similar approach has characterized GOP's pursuit of
Islamization of the financial system. Initial but limited steps to abolish
"riba", or interest, from the system were taken in 1981, but it was only from
July 1985 that all domestic currency transactions have been based on new
financing modes consistent with Islamic principles. New financing arrange-
ments include: (i) mark-up, a purchase and corresponding future re-purchase
of assets with a profit margin which varies according to the length of the
interval between the two transactions; (ii) Term Finance Certificates (TFCs),
bonds with a risk premium; (iii) Musharika, loans designed to meet working
capital needs on a profit sharing basis according to pre-agreed formula;
(iv) K.odaraba companies, investment funds operating in accordance with
Islamic tenets; and (v) hire-purchase and leasing.
D. Small Scale Industries Sector
2.07    Characteristics and Performance.  GOP traditionally has attached
importance to the SSI sector. Already in 1959, a committee was formed to
examine means to promote small industrial and agricultural activities and in
the sixties, institutions were established to serve the needs of small
enterprises. Following the separation of East Pakistan, Small Industries
Corporations were formed at the provincial level to channel government assis-
tance to the sector. Aside from the obvious social objectives of these
measures, considerations of industrial development also have been important
in GOP support of SSI. Generally, small firms are less affected by economic
variations, are less vulnerable and sensitive to political changes, generate
a good portion of their capital needs from the informal capital markets and
require less infrastructural support than do larger firms. These factors
help explain why small scale industries continued to grow during the dif-
ficult years of the seventies, while output from larger firms declined. In
the 1980s, investments in small firms represented 18% to 27% of total
industrial investments. In recent years, SSIs have constituted close to 4.7%
of GDP, 27% of industrial value added, and 30% of manufactured exports. SSIs
employ about two million workers in about 100,000 establishments.
2.08    The majority of SSIs are located in the provinces of Punjab and Sind,
with a smaller proportion in NWFP and Baluchistan.  This geographic distribu-
tion reflects population concentrations, availability of raw materials and
infrastructure, access to markets and local entrepreneurship. Traditionally,
SSI units concentrated on processing local raw materials, such as cotton and
other agricultural products. More recently, egpansion has been notable in
food processing, engineering products and construction materials. Other key
SSI activities focused on exports on the basis of adding value to imported
raw material, and are characterized by carpets, sports goods, cutlery and
surgical instruments.
2.09    Policy Environment and Development Strategy.  GOP's policies for
industrial development do not differentiate between large and small industry.
Rather than protecting or subsidizing small firms, the Government has main-
tained a strategy of increasing SSIs' access to credit and technical
services. SSIs are allowed to set up and operate with little regulation,
and market signals are the main determinants of SSI investments and their
viability. GOP's policy provides that all SSIs be in the private sector.
Subsectors with strong potential, high value added, and limited economies of
scale are promoted. There is a push to develop SSIs in more remote urban and
rural areas, but this objective again is pursued by promotion and provision



-5-
of services, rather than through subsidization. There is, however, a strong
tendency to provide credit to SSI at rates lower than that for large
industry.
2.10    Technical Assistance for SSI.  The promotional and technical
assistance activities in support of SSI are a provincial government
responsibility, carried out by the Punjab Small Industries Corporation
(PSIC), the Sind Small Industries Corporation (SSIC), the Small Industries
Development Board (SIDB) of NWFP, and the Directorate for Small Industries
(DSI) in Baluchistan. 1/ These organizations used to be area offices of the
West Pakistan Small Industries Corporation, established in 1965 in Lahore and
divided along provincial lines in 1972. Consequently, their policies,
outlook, organizational structure, and programs of assistance are similar,
although PSIC is the best organized and has the largest technical staff.
PSIC has directed most of its assistance to the organized small industry
sector in the Lahore, Guiranwala, and Sialkot districts. The Punjab is the
center for the manufacture of sport goods, cutlery, and surgical instruments
and also has a large concentration of small manufacturers of other engineer-
ing products.
2.11    To a large extent, the SICs have focused their assistance to the
sector on providing physical facilities, developing industrial estates,
building and equipping service centers, and establishing training and produc-
tion centers for handicrafts.  Insufficient attention has been given to
building effective programs to promote viable new enterprises and to provide
extension services to existing firms.  The project encouraged the SICs to
develop these services through subsector studies, project development, and
practical export promotion components. The SICs will need to continue to
build their capabilities in these and other "soft-ware" aspects of SSI
promotion.
2.12    SSI Financing.  With the introduction of the SSI lending program
under this project, GOP abolished the special credit schemes jointly
administered by the provincial Small Industries Corporations (SIC) and the
NCBs which proved to be ineffective. These schemes were not only small and
fragmented due to the cumbersome institutional arrangements but also resulted
in overlapping responsibilities, institutional frictions, delays in loan
processing and finally, poor loan recovery performance. Moreover, concerns
with lending drew the SICs away from the other important functions of SSI
promotion and extension services. The project succeeded in rationalizing
institutional roles by assigning the lending function completely to the
commercial banks and reorienting the SICs toward technical assistance.
2.13    C.rrently, the NCBs have sole responsibility for the SSI lending
system. To ensure SSI's access to credit, annual targets for loans to the
sector, expressed as net increments to the amount of outstanding SSI loans,
are set by the State Bank of Pakistan based on COP's Annual Development Plan
projections for SSI investments and value-added growth. These are then
divided among the five banks on the basis of deposit size. Achievement of
target levels is monitored monthly; the targets themselves are revised during
the year in reaction to actual credit demand from SSI for investment and
working capital. Since these targets have been quite conservative in rela-
tion to SSI needs, contributing about 30% of SSI requirements, they have not
1/  The acronym SIC in this report refers to all of these agencies.



-6-
resulted in undt'e allocation to SSI. On the other hand, they do not repre-
sent a constraint since they can be exceeded, as they have been in recent
years.  Since IDA funds were made available in FY82, SSI loans by the commer-
cial banks increased substantially, meeting about 40% of SSI investment
requirements, up from about 30% in prior years. Moreover, with the
availability of long term funds from IDA, fixed investment loans have
increased. IDA also assisted the NCBs in building their capabilities for SSI
project financing by improving subproject selection through better project
appraisal skills; improving systems and procedures to shorten loan processing
time; strengthening credit discipline to improve loan recovery; and expanding
training and advisory services to reach more branches as decentralization
increased.
III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. Origin
3.01    In view of SSI's important role in achieving its economic and social
objectives, GOP has placed high priority to assistance for the SSI sector.
This role was particularly evident in the 1970s when SSIs continued to grow
whiLe output from larger industrial enterprises declined in view of
nationalization, labor unrest and loss of private sector confidence. To
expand its support for the SSI sector, GOP approached IDA for a credit to
finance SSI development. In February 1977, IDA undertook a project iden-
tification mission which recommended preparation by the Ministry of
Industries of a project focusing not only on financial assistance but
broadening the approach to include technical and marketing services for SSI.
To assist the Ministry in preparing the project, UNIDO, with IDA assistance
on study design, undertook a study of five important SSI subsectors which
was supposed to assess their status, analyze their problems and growth
prospects and recommend policies and assistance programs for the sector. The
study was completed in mid-1979.
3.02    On the basis of findings of this study, project preparation and
pre-appraisal missions were undertaken in November 1979 and February 1980,
r.espectively, to develop project components and institutional -.rangements.
With the assistance of two consultants, appraisal was undertaken in June
1980. Negotiations were completed in January 1981. The credit was sub-
sequently approved in February 1981, signed in April 1981 and became effec-
tive in October 1981. The delay between signing and effectiveness was prin-
cipally due to the fact that conditions of effectiveness affected six banks
and four provincial agencies, only one of which had a prior relationship with
IDA. All four conditions of effectiveness, however, were considered to be
minimum requirements.
B. Proiect Objectives
3.03    Aside from the traditional objective of providing investment loans
for the establishment or expansion of SSI units, the project aimed at expand-
ing SSI assistance beyond credit to include technical and marketing assis-
tance and improving the effectiveness of the credit and technical assistance
delivery system by clarifying institutional roles and improving coordination
among institutions. Specifically, the project aimed to: (a) encourage the
development of SSI units that are export-oriented or are efficient in import
substitution by providing funds for term lending through the commercial
banks; (b) assist in orienting the commercial banks toward a longer-term



-7-
project appraisal approach in their SSI lending; (c) assist two SICs in
providing selected technical assistance, extension services and skills train-
ing in woodworking and leather goods; (d) expand the export promotion of SSI
products; and (e) initiate project development exercises in Baluchistan.
3.04    In the past, SSI financing was carried out jointly by the commercial
banks and IDBP and the provincial Small Industries Corporations (SIC) under
special schemes which had been developed in an ad hoc fashion. These schemes
were not only small and fragmented due to cumbersome institutional arrange-
ments but also resulted in overlapping responsibilities, institutional
friction, delays in loan processing and poor loan recovery performance.
Under the project, GOP agreed to abolish these special credit schemes and
assign full responsibility for SSI financing to the banks. Concomitantly,
the project provided support to the SICs to reorient them toward technical
assistance and assisted some of their programs in which the SICs had been
more effective.
3.05    T:ie project aimed at building on the State Bank of Pakistan's (SBP)
program for SSI financing under which the NCBs were given annual targets for
loans to the sector. While the institutional set-up was basically sound,
some aspects of the system needed improvement. Most of the lending under
this program was in the form of short-term facilities and was carried out
principally on the basis of creditworthiness analysis. The project aimed at
increasing the volume of investment financing by providing the NCBs with
long-term resources with which to blend their short-term funds to achieve
prudent term transformation. Moreover, the project provided technical assis-
tance to the NCBs to assist them in building their capability for SSI project
financing by improving subproject selection through better project appraisal
skills; improving systems and procedures to shorten loan processing time and
achieve satisfactory loan recovery performance and increase decentralization
to improve access of SSIs outside the main urban centers.
C. Project Components
3.06    To achieve the above objectives the project had the following
components:
(a) A credit component involving a line of credit onlent to the five NCBs
for investment financing of SSI units which met eligibility criteria
and were financially and economically viable;
(b) technical assistance for the NCBs in terms of training and advisory
services in project promotion. appraisal and supervision;
(c) establishment of two service centers which would provide common
facilities, training, demonstration and extension services to SSI
units in woodworking and leather goods;
(d) export promotion of selected handicrafts and SSI products in the U.S.
market;
(e) project development assistance for the under-developed province of
Baluchistan; and
(f) a project preparation facility by which the SICs could assist
prospective loan applicants in project preparation and loan
application.



-8-
TV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Subloan Component
1.  Start-jp
4.01    After the Credit became effective in October 1981, it took seven
months for subloan processing to start in earnest. The appraisal forecast of
three months was too optimistic considering that the institutional set-up was
altogether new, the loan processing procedures were different from those
which the banks were used to, the program had to be advertised and promoted
intensively throughout the country and SSI officers of the PCIs had to be
briefed on the program and trained in project appraisal and supervision.
4.02    Training of SSI officers of the PCIs commenced in November 1981 and
was completed in March 1982 and comprised a five-week intensive training
course on project appraisal and supervision for 15 key staff of the newly
established Small Industries Departments (SID) of the banks and several
three-day orientation courses for 195 branch officers. To rEinforce the
training courses, IDBP and the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) prepared a
lending manual which spelled out lending policies and procedures as well as
guidelines on project appraisal and supervision for the use of SSI officers.
Application, appraisal and reporting formats were developed and standardized
to facilitate loan processing and ensure close monitoring of the project.
4.03    On completion of the training program, IDBP, PBC and the banks
launched a nation-wide promotion campaign to inform the private sector of the
new lending program and develop a pipeline. In April 1982, a team of IDBP,
PBC and bank personnel conducted information seminars for chami;rs of com-
merce and industry in provincial capitals and other major cities. Newspaper
advertisements and other media coverage were also used. Brochures on ihe
scheme in English and the local language were distributed and posters were
posted in bank branches and other prominent places. The SICs conducted their
own promotion campaign through seminars and through contacts with industrial
estate occupants and their other SSI clients. The Punjab Small Industries
Corporation was the first to start performing its project preparation role
under the project preparation facility to depelop a pipeline for the banks.
2. Timetable
4,04    After completion of all the preparatory work, subloan processing
started in earnest in May 1982, seven months after Credit effectiveness.
Nevertheless, the subloan component was fully committed by September 1983 or
in about 18 months, half the time expected at appraisal. Thus while the
appraisal report was too optimistic in estimating start-up time, it was too
conservative in estimating subloan commitment time. Rapid commitment of
subloans was principally due to the existence of pent-up demand for credit by
SSI which, up to then, had limited access to investment funds from institu-
tional sources. Moreover, the NCBs proved to be more efficient in loan
processing compared with our experience with SSI financing by the DFIs, with
much shorter elapsed time between application and loan decision.
4.05    Disbursement on the subloans were expected at appraisal to be com-
pleted in four years from Board date. Despite the delay in start-up,
disbursements on subloans were completed on time or in ebout three and a half



-9-
years. This was accomplished despite lack of a revolving fund which made
reimbursement procedures more cumbersome considering the large number of
small expenditures on a large number of small subloans. On the basis of this
experience, a revolving fund was created for the Second SSI Project.
3.  Subproject Apprasl
4.06    As envisaged at appraisal, two subproject appraisal procedures were
established, one for small subloans (free-limit subloans of less than
Rs 800,000 or about US$75,000 equivalent) and one for larger subloans
(Rs 800,000 up to Rs 3 milliton or US$280,000). For small subloans, appraisal
reports were simplified focusing on financial analysis to determine financial
viability and using eligibility criteria and project profiles to assess
economic merit. For larger subloans and, particularly for new companies,
appraisal reports were more detailed and were supposed to include financial
and economic analyses.
4.07    In general, the quality of appraisals by the PCIs for small subloans
was satisfactory and appraisal procedures were established without major
problems since the short-form appraisal was quite similar to what the PCIs
were used to under their own lending program. The PCIs had more difficulties
with the long form appraisal for larger subloans and it took time and on-the-
job counseling by IDBP before appraisal reports could meet required
standards. Difficulty with the long form appraisal was also a factor why the
PCIs tended to concentrate on small subloans (para 5.01). Report presenta-
tion was initially poor and analysis was particularly weak for the marketing
and technica' aspects of subprojects. There were weaknesses also in assess-
ing the availability of technical know-how and raw materials and in estimat-
ing market demand. With additional training and counseling by IDBP, the
quality of appraisals improved in the later part of project implementation.
4.08    Based on a 10% sample of subprojects visited, it was found that,
despite weaknesses in appraisal reports, lending decisions were basically
sound.  The quality of sponsor selection was high, with a good balance
between existing and new clients and between traditional and new
entrepreneurs. The PCIs ensured that, in cases of subprojects with complex
processes, the sponsors were able to obtain the necessary technical knowhow
through foreign collaboration or by employing techtnical personnel. However,
there was a tendency to underestimate working capital requirements and to
over-invest in buildings. These were corrected under SSI II by limiting
eligibility for building expenditures and reviewing working capital calcula-
tions more closely.
4. Supervision and Collection Performance
4.09    At the beginning, insti.ution building for the PCIs emphasized
developing capability for subproject appraisal and installing systems for
subloan disbursements.  Not enough attention was paid to project supervision
and end-use monitoring, resulting in an initially poor collection
performance. In May 1984, when the first reports on collections were
gathered and analyzed, the collection ratio of all the PCIs averaged only
47%. A Bank mission highlighted this problem in its discussions with the
PCIs and GOP and proposed several measures to address the problem before it
deteriorated. The banks responded by conducting an intensive collection
drive during which all subprojects were visited, The collection ratio
improved to 64% by September 1984. By June 1986, the collection ratio fur-
ther improved to 82%, as the banks continued to streamline their system and



-10-
procedures for collection, including timely billing of clients, more
organized and frequent follow-up on defaulting borrowers and use of authority
to offset loan overdues with credit balance of borrowers. Also, the general
credit environment improved as GOP supported the fluancial institutions in
their drive to improve overall portfolio quality. A major reason for
improvement in the overall credit system was the establishment of well func-
tioning credit committees at several levels of management whereby defaulters
are blacklisted and become unable to avail of new credit facilities.
5. eporting
4.10    The DCA had required that the banks submit semi-annual progress
reports on subloan commitments, disbursements, recoveries and arrears which
IDBP was supposed to consolidate for submission to IDA. In practice, what
happened was that banks submitted fcrtnightly status reports to the PBC and
IDBP which were used to monitor implementation progress internally. Reports
from IDBP were prepared and submitted only for supervision missions rather
than regularly on a semi-annual basis. While it did not meet the letter of
the agreement, this practice was considered satisfactory since supervision
missions were undertaken practically on a six-monthly basis and making report
submission coincide with supervision missions highlighted the importance of
the report and ensured its review by Bank staff and feedback to the
implementing institutions. The reports were found to to be up-to-date,
accurate and complete but were weak in analyzing policy issues and proposing
more medium-term strategies.
4,11    Audit reports of the banks were submitted regularly and on time as
required by the DCA. Audit reports were prepared by the regular auditors of
these banks which are local private auditing firms in Pakistan. Audit
reports have been found satisfactory. However, they were deficient in that
they did not contain a separate opinion by the auditors on the adequacy of
SOEs as required by the DCA. This deficiency was not identified during the
course of project implementation. However, after the in-depth review of
compliance with audit covenants carried out during a regional project
implementation review (PIR), this deficiency was found and subsequently
corrected under the Second SSI Project.
6. Procurements and Disbursements
4.12    Considering the large number and the small value of items to be
procured under many small subloans, IDA agreed to allow the banks to use
their existing procurement procedures provided due care was taken to ensure
that prices were reasonable and competitive, taking into account relevant
factors such as time of delivery, quality and reliability of goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts. To ensure that the
procurement and disbursement procedures of the banks were sacisfactory and
continued to be so, an intensive review of procurement and disbursement
procedures of sample bank branches was undertaken by a team consisting of a
representative from the Bank's resident mission, as team leader, and of IDBP,
PBC and the headquarters of concerned banks, as members. This review was
.onducted twice during the project life and was able to ide.ntify weaknesses
in the banks' procedures. Corrective measures were proposed and brought to
the attention of PBC and the management of the banks. These were quickly
transmitted back to the branches for implementation.  Although the second
review was able to identify other weaknesses in the system, it also found out
that most of the earlier weaknesses had been corrected by the banks. This



-11-
practice has been found very useful and should be extended to similar IDA
operations.
B. Technical Assistance Components
1. Gujrat Woodworking Service Center (GWSC)
4.13    Objectives.  The Gujrat Woodworking Service Center was established
to assist the traditional wooden furniture manufacturing industry in adapting
to changing technology and market conditions in order to improve viability
and profitability. lo achieve this objective, the center was to provide the
following services to industry: (a) an extension program which would provide
planned in-plant advisory services to individual units to guide them in
improving technology and production methods; (b) common facilities for equip-
ment which are not economic for each unit to acquire; (c) training of skilled
workers and machine operators on a two-year curriculum program for new
recruits and short-term evening sessions for existing industry workers;
(d) design of standardized furniture which could be produced more efficiently
by the industry; and (e) commercial production, utilizing 60% of plant
capacity to provide demonstration of efficient production methods, laboratory
conditions for the extension progran. and actual factory situation for the
training program. Income from the commercial production was to be used to
cross-subs;dize the promotional aspects. The center was to be under the
administrative umbrella of the Punjab Small Industries Corporation (PSIC)
but operate under a management committee including representatives from the
private sector (Gujrat Furniture Makers Association-GFMA) to ensure continu-
ing relevance with industry needs. The total cost of the center was
estimated at US$1.73 million of which IDA was to finance US$1.23 million.
4.14    Project Implementation.  GWSC was completed and has been fully opera-
tional since September 1984. There was an implementation delay of about
9 months caused by the contractors for the buildings. After completing the
strucEure and receiving a major portion of the c)ntract price, the contractor
lost interest in completing the work as he had taken up other contracts in
the area. However, the quality of the work done, when finally completed, was
satisfactory. Machinery was procu.ed without any problems on the recommenda-
tion of the advisors of the project. The performance of the project advisors
whose assignment was completed in June 1985 was considered satisfactory by
PSIC. The project was completed at a total foreign cost of US$1.08 million
and local cost of US$430,000 equivalent compared with the appraisal estimate
of US$1.23 million plus US$500,000 equivalent in local currency, resulting in
savings of US$220,000 equivalent. The savings came mainly from lower expen-
ditures on consultant services and local currency devaluation.
4.15    The management committee with two private sector representatives from
CFAA was organized as envisioned at appraisal. This arrangement has ensured
participation of the private sector in policy formulation and management of
the center and has improved communication between PSIC and the private
sector. This is manifested by the high demand for the center's training and
extension facilities. Two batches of trainees for the two-year certificate
course have started and will be completed in November 1986 and November 1987,
respectively.  Special courses of 4 to 6 weeks have been conducted for exist-
ing industry workers to improve production skills on modern woodworking
machinery. Common facilities comprising wood seasoning, hydraulic pressing
of plastic laminations and plywood, sharpening of blades, saws and cuLters
have been extended to about 25 small woodworking units. Extension services
relating to productivity improvements and improvements in the quality and



-12-
design of products have been provided to 224 private woodworking units.
iWSC's design and work preparation section is also fully operational and has
introduced new designs, prepared production layouts and cost estimates which
were then implemented by the production department. Production based on job
orders worth Rs 1.2 million were executed in FY85. During FY86 orders worth
Rs 2.3 million have been executed while orders worth another Rs 8.2 million
were pending. During FY87, GWSC is expected to become profitable by achiev-
ing full capacity utilization of Rs 8 million production per year.
4.16    The center is thus well on ics way to achieving all the objectives
set out at appraisal and will be a model of modern furniture manufacturing
unit demonstrating use of up-to-date technology, machinery and production
methods. It has stimulated the furniture manufacturing industry of the area
by demonstrating the benefits of utilizing modern technology, changing over
to straight-line standardized designs suitable for mass production and use of
modern machinery.
2. Bannu Leather Goods Service Centre (BLGSC)
4.17    Objectives.  BLGSC was established with the objective of helping
traditional shoe manufacturers in and around the Bannu area diversify into
non-footwear leather goods manufacture in response to changed market
conditions. The assistance to the target group through a multi-functional
service center was to consist of re-training of the labor force in
appropriate skills; demonstration of the proper set-up and management of a
leather goods unit; assistance in setting up individual workshops; and,
through subcontracting, provision of the lead in developing domestic and
export markets. The initial emphasis of the center was to be on training.
Further, a major element was subcontracting whereby the center would develop
the market and, concurrently, provide practical technical assistance to the
industry at the production end. Under this arrangement, the center would
concern itself with centralized functions such as securing orders according
to the center's and the industry's capabilities; procuring and selecting raw
materials according to market requirements; preparing initial proto-types and
patterns; undertaking preparatory processes to produce components ready for
assembly by industry; distributing work among the subcontractors with in-
plant technical guidance and training; and collecting products for further
finishing and marketing. The center was also to provide assistance to opera-
tions of individual units outside the subcontracting scheme through provision
of common facilities in design preparation, pattern cutting and other
facilities not available in individual units; and extension services through
regular plant visits by an extension unit to be run by the center. The total
cost of the center was estimated at US$1.47 million of which IDA was to
finance US$1.02 million.
4.18    Project Implementation. The project, although completed and partially
operational, has been faced with many implementation problems. Completion
was delayed by about one year due to the delay in hiring consultants.
Moreover, the Small Industry Development Board (SIDB) faced procurement
problems since responses from suppliers to bids for machinery were not
satisfactory. The situation was rectified only after the advisor had
arrived, modified the specifications and used his personal contacts. The
project, being located in Bannu, an isolated and underdeveloped area, has
also suffered from staffing problems particularly at the senior levels. The
center, in effect, is being managed by the SIDB from Peshawar, the provincial
capital, and considering the distance and other communications problems in
the area, this arrangement has been a poor alternative. Finally, the project



-13-
faced serious problems with the building design and the civil contractors.
The buildings were eventually completed only in early 1985 after many dis-
putes with the contractors. Even now the main building is defective and does
not provide sufficient protection agai.ist the extreme heat and cold in Bannu.
SIDB is undertaking repairs of the buildings but the design is basically
defective. The total cost of the center was US$0.97 million in foreita cost
and Rs 6.02 million in local costs compared with the appraisal estimate of
US$1.02 million and Rs 4.5 million, respectively. The cost overrun in local
costs was mainly due to problems with the buildings.
4.19    The management committee including private sector representatives
from the Bannu Leather and Shoe Manufacturers Association (BLSMA) is func-
tioning satisfactorily. A basic training course for 20 trainees has already
been completed and another batch of 20 is currently attending a similar
course which includes pattern making, cutting, sewing and assembling.
Specialized training in new designs and the operation of the machinery in the
center was recently started. The center has so far produced and sold leather
goods worth Rs 6 million and Rs 1 million, respectively. The quality of the
finished goods produced by the center is high and has attracted many
inquiries from the local market. The management is also exploring export
possibilities. The project has also made a beginning in providing the avail-
able common facilities by providing skiving and splitting facilities to some
of the shoe makers in the area. The center also plans to start providing
assistance in setting up individual workshops as envisaged, as the need
arises. However, it is likely to take about 2 years before the center can
become a model of a well established, managed and financially viable leather
goods unit. The completion of the project and high quality of its products
have demonstrated that such centers can be set up in backward areas but
implementation problems can be many. Frequent supervision visits by Bank
staff were useful in minimizing implementation delays.
3. Export Promotion
4.20    Objectives.  The export promotion component was designed to provide a
practical dimension to the export promotion activities of the Export
Promotion Bureau (EPB) and the Sind Small Industries Corporation (SSIC), by
focusing on practical product adaptation exercises and marketing activities
for selected handicrafts and small industry products. Following a typical
marketing cycle, all the activities from product selecting, pinpointing of
suppliers, product designing/redesigning up to buyer matching and the holding
of specific marketing events were to be integrated for each product category
in order to achieve sales in the short term and improve market access in the
long term. Marketing events were to include participation in single-country
trade fairs, in multi-country, product-specific fairs and sales exposure
trips to the U.S., the target market, by promising SSI producers. Selection
of product candidates was to be made by EPB and SSIC, in consultation with
the private sector, based on export performance in the past and potential in
the market place. EPB was to implement the export promotion for manufactured
products and SSIC for handicrafts. Marketing and design consultants were to
be hired to assist EPB and SSIC in executing this component. The foreign
exchange cost in terms of advisers and marketing events was estimated at
US$500,000 for SSIC and US$500,000 for EPB. The counterpart agencies were to
provide funds for counterpart staff and other local costs estimated at
US$200,000 equivalent.
4.21    Project Implementation.  EPB and SSIC engaged a UN agency to provide
consultancy services in the fields of product design and marketing. In



-14-
addition, the agency also provided short-term (two-month duration)
specialists for specific product lines such as lacquer craft, leather goods
and jewelry. Furthermore, it appointed the Pakistan Design Institute (PDI)
in Karachi as consultant/advisor for onyx crafts and woolen durries. On the
basis of preliminary surveys, EPB and the advisors decided to concentrate on
five subsectors, namely, leather garments, leather goods, sports goods,
surgical instruments and cutlery. Ninety one samples were sent to the U.S.A.
for market tests of which 55 were found promising. Counter samples of these
and other products were produced and displayed in various exhibitions in the
U.S.A. As a result, orders worth about US$750,000 were booked.
4.22    On the basis of local surveys and subsequent feedback on their
samples from the marketing advisor, SSIC focused on onyx craft, wood craft,
brass and copperware, silver jewelry, bone carvings and jewelry, glass beads,
lacquer craft, woolen durries and shawls, ajrak (a Sindi cloth) and block
printed cloth. Samples were displayed in the Dallas, Los Angeles and New
York gift shows during 1986. At these shows the SSIC's handicraft shop
obtained trial orders worth US$20,000 mainly for items made of onyx, brass,
copper, wood, and white metal jewelrv. Six other participating exporters and
manufacturers booked some sample and triai orders.
4.23    Out of the US$500,000 IDA contribution towards EPB's export promotion
project, US$400,000 was used to pay the agency, resulting in a saving of
US$100,000. The saving was due to slower than expected implementation of the
project caused mainly by agency's inability to appoint consultants on time.
Total expenditure on SSIC's component was US$470,000 including expenditure
incurred for follow-up marketing activities.
4.24    EPB and SSIC were generally dissatisfied with the performance of the
marketing and product design advisors. The former never worked for any
sustained period due to personal problems and the latter was a generalist and
not the specialist specified in the terms of reference. The consulting
agency failed to replace the advisors for over a year resulting in delayed
implementation. Moreover, the advisor who was finally sent as a replacement
did not provide EPB with sufficient market feedback based on his market
survey as agreed. EPB found that the advisors were weak in developing
appropriate marketing strategies for the product groups selected and in
arranging participation in trade exhibitions. The performance of short-term
experts provided to EPB and SSIC on leather garments, lacquer craft and
jewelry was considered satisfactory.
4.25    Due to the delay in project implementation and the weakness of the
advisors, the objectives of the export promotion component could not be
achieved fully. However, the exporters who participated in this project
gained valuable experience in the U.S. market and acquired knowledge of
marketing practices, attitudes and channels in the U.S. Useful leads have
been provided through trial orders in some product areas which need to be
pursued for further development. The consuLtants employed for this component
were not very effective since they did not exactly have the right qualifica-
tions for the job. Due to bureaucratic procedures, the consulting agency
could not quickly engage or replace consultants. It may be more appropriate
to employ private sector advisors who have more flexibility and to compensate
them based on performance in the marketplace. Although the objectives of the
export components could not be fully realized, it has nevertheless provided
valuable initial exposure of Pakistani exporters and produrts to the U.S.
market. A follow-up to this effort, modified to correct earlier weaknesses,
is included under the proposed third project.



-15-
4. Project Development for Baluchistan
4.26    Objectives.  Baluchistan is the least developed of the four provinces
of Pakis_an with little industrial activity.  This component was therefore
conceived with the objective of assisting the Government of Baluchistan in
project identification and promotion by preparing project proposals based on
opportuinities in the province and promoting them to the private sector. IDA
was to finance a team of four iubsector specialists who would identify five
to Len projects Laking into aLcounlt Baluchistan's resources; namely, animal
skins, fruit and vegetables, marble (onyx), and wooL. The team was to
analyze the present production and market structures and develop projects ,p
to the feasibility study stage, including formulation of financial plans.
This component was to be carried out by a team of four over a three and a
half month period. The total cost was estimated at US$110,000 of which IDA
was to finance the foreign exchange cost of about US$100,000.
4.27    Project Implementation.  The Government of Baluchistan awarded the
consultancy work to a local consultancy companv based in Karachi.  The work
completed bv the consultants included the iollowing reports: (a) sectoral
background providing sectoral analysis, industrial problems and prospects,
pre-conditions lor development and area protile for the province of
Baluchistan; (b) subsectoral studies on fisheries, minerals, leather, wool,
fruits and vegetables and agro-based industr:es; (c) general opportunity
study summarizing findings of all the subsector studies and outlining a
strategy for Baluchistan's industrial development; and (d) ten feasibility
studies on projects selected by Government of Baluchistan. The entire
allocation of US$100,000 was spent on the preparation of these studies and on
subsequent activities to promote these projects to the private sector.
4.28    While the consultants completed the preparation of studies
satisfactorily, they could not fully train counterpart staff and institution-
alize the project preparation function within the Department of Small
Industries of the Government of Baluchistan due to lack of counterpart staff.
The government was unable to find qualified personnel and could not set up a
unit for this purpose. Without this unit responsible for project promotion
and development, the useful work done under this component remains largely
unutilized so far. Under the Second SSI Project now being implemented, a
provision was made for assisting the Government of Baluchistan in setting up
such a unit.
5. Fund for Subsector Studies and Project Preparation
4.29    Objectives.  One of the objectives of the project was to improve SSI
lending and technical assistance operations by moving from a general approach
to a subsector-specific approach. To extend the coverage of lending and
technical services to more subsectors, funds were provided under the project
for studies that would assess growth potential and estimate investment and
credit requirements of SSI subsectors, analyze technological choices, iden-
tify geographic areas where subsectors should be promoted or expanded, iden-
tify technical assistance needs and develop subsector norms to facilitate and
improve the banks project appraisals for lending. It was also expected that
some prospective borrowers under the credit component, especially the smaller
ones, would be unable to prepare their own project proposals in a manner
required ly the banks for project appraisal purposes. For existing projects,
a major problem a.rea was reconstructing operating performance from inadequate
records. For net' projects, problems were foreseen in market research and



-16-
analysis and preparation of financial projections. Part of the fund there-
fore was to be used to finance the costs of project preparation by the SICs.
On requ?st by a borrower or a banker, the SICs would undertake project
preparation free of charge and receive compensation from the fund according
to a fixed schedule of fees and with proper screening and approval
procedures. US$500,000 was allocated to the fund, with US$250,000 each for
subsector studies and project prepara.ion.
4.30    Implementation.  The Subsector and Project Preparation Fund was
established within IDBP which awarded the contract for subsector studies to a
consulting group which completed studies on the following subsecto.s: cook-
ing and other household equipment; agricultural equipment and parts; automo-
tive parts/accessories; marble products; agro-based industries; export-
oriented vegetable and fruit processing and preservation; milk and milk
products (dairy products); industries based on agricultural produce (corn
products); furniture/wood-working products; surgical instruments; cutlery;
sports goods; and ready-made garments. The studies assess the status,
problems and prospects of these sectors and include project profiles in
accordance with the objectives agreed at appraisal. Due to the delay in
selection of consultants the studies were delayed by about two years and were
completed only in early 1986. As the credit component was already fully
disbursed by that time, the studies are being used by the PCIs for the second
project.
4.31    In general, the quiality of the studies prepared was considered satis-
factory by the banks. In addition, the consultants also prepared project
profiles which the banks are using for project appraisal purposes. Under the
project preparation facility, over 600 small investors were assisted in
preparing their loan applications. Among the SICs, PSIC was the most active
in providing the service followed by SSIC and SIDB. The DSJ of Baluchistan,
as expected, could not provide this service due to lack of ql-alified staff.
Assistance to build DSI was included in the second project.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
A.  Subprojects Financed I/
5.01    Subloan Characteristics.  The subloan component of the project
financed 654 units, about 40% more than the appraisal estimate of 475 units.
This was because subloans were smaller than expected. The average subloan
size was US$42,000, smaller thani appraisal estimates and much smaller than
the maxirum amount allowed of US$200,000. Also, the breakdown between free-
limit subloans (subloans of less than Rs 800,000) and above free-limit sub-
loans was 85:15, compared to the DCA requirement that at least 50% should be
free-limit subloans, indicating that a large percentage of subioans were for
smaller enterprises. While this pattern indicates that the PCIs paid suffi-
cient attention to smaller borrowers, it is also due to the fact that
appraisal procedures were easier for smaller subloacis (para 4.07). Subloans
had an average maturity of 7 years and 3 months, showing the PCIs willingness
to increase loan maturities to match investment requirements given matching
funds and sufficient margins. On average, subloans were applied to finance
1/ Annex 2 provides tables detailing the characteristics of the sub-
projects financed under this Credit.



-17-
factory building constructions (20%), machinery and equipment (65%) and
permanent working capital (15%). Only 10% of subloan amounts were used in
foreign exchange for direct imports by subborrowers; most subloans financed
local goods as well as imported but locally available goods. Including these
indirect foreign costs, the foreign exchange application of subloans was
about 30%, as expected at appraisal. The average equity contribution of
sponsors was 59%, much higher than expected at appraisal (40%) and the mini-
mum equity requirement of 30%. This resulted in greater domestic resource
mobilization than expected and str ',er capital structuring of subprojects by
the PCIs.   Overall, the financing  .ttern was as follows:  sponsor's equity
59%, PCI financing of 8% and IDA financing of 33%. The subloan component of
US$2t million equivalent thus generated investments of about US$80 million
equivalent, 45% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$54 million
equivalent.
5.02    Subsector Distribution.  The subloan component financed 433 new and
221 balancing, modernization, replacement and expansion (BMRE) subprojects,
indicating that the PCIs stressed the financing of new businesses thereby
expanding credit access. Subsector distribution was as expected at
appraisal. About a third of the subprojects financed belong to the five
subsectors identified at appraisal as growth areas: light engineering,
textiles and garments, surgical instruments, sports goods and leather
products. Agro-processing was the largest subsector financed, taking about
39% of total subloans. This included activities such as ice and cold storage
plants for the fishing and cash crop industry, oil extraction, cotton
ginning, rice and flour milling and fruit and vegetable processing.
Considering the "rural" location of SSI units and the agricultural base of
the economy, this subsector is expected to continue to be a growth area.
5.03    Geographical Distribution.  About 90% of the subloans were for sub-
projects located in the Punja'- (61%) and Sind (29%) provinces, with NWFP
receiving only 8% and Baluchistan 2% of IDA subloans. This distribution was
somewhat more lopsided than as expected at appraisal, but is reflective of
population distribution and past patterns of commercial bank lending.
Despite efforts at promoting projects in Baluchistan, problems with local
entrepreneurship, availability of raw materials, access to markets and
availability of skilled workers limited their success (paras. 4.24 - 4.26).
Suggestions for imposing credit targets by province were resisted since it
was correctly pointed out that credit alone would not develop projects. More
intensive promotional and developmental work in the less-developed areas was
included in the Second SSI Project and should continue to be emphasized to
prevent policy makers from taking the politically easy way out of credit
targeting. The component under SSI II refers specifically to developing
capability within the SICs in the provinces to carry out project promotion
programs on a continuing basis.
5.04    Size of Subprojects.  Most of the lending was for smaller subprojects
with total assets below Rs 2 million (US$125,000). Only about a quarter of
the subprojects had total assets over Rs 2 million. The average subproject
size was about Rs 625,000 in fixed assets excluding land and buildings, much
lower than size ceiling of Rs 3 million.  This trend towards smaller sub-
projects appears to be due to the fact that loan origination was mainly done
at the branches where borrowers are smaller.
5.05    Economic Impact.  The 654 subprojects financed under the subloan
component have generated about 12,800 new jobs at a cost per job of about
US$6,000.  This is sightly lower than the appraisal estimate of about 13,000



-18-
new jobs created. However, about a quarter of the subprojects are only
partially operational. Total employment generated is expected to exceed the
original appraisal estimate once all subprojects are full.y operational, but
will still fall far short of the PCI estimate of 18,900 at the subproject
appraisal stage. The subprojects financed under this project are almost
totally dependent on local raw materials (97%). Exports constitute a sig-
nificant portion of subprojects in specific export-oriented subsectors such
as surgical instruments, sports goods, carpets and garments but, overall,
constitute less than 5% of total output. The annual incremental value added
is estimated to be about US$50 million. Ex-post finan^ial rates of return
for fully operational projects ranged between 18% and 45%. 1/
B. InstituLion Building
5.06    Participating Credit Institutions.  One of the objectives of the
project was to develop the commercial banks into effective channels for SSI
finanzing by orienting them towards project-based lending methodology and
using their wide branch network to improve SSI's access to credit. The
project included an allocation of US$150,000 to finance the training of key
staff of the commercial banks. Another US$250,000 was allocated to finance
the preparation of subsector studies and project profiles which could be used
by the banks to facilitate project appraisal work (para 4.28-4.30).
Moreover, a development bank, the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan,
was selected to be the refinancing and review agency for subloan processing
in order to assist the commercial banks in acquiring proiect financing
technology. Finally, a project preparation fund was inciuded to assist
borrowers in preparing project proposals for bank appraisal, thereby
facilitating the banks' project appraisal task (para 4.28-4.30).
5.07    To prepare the banks for their role in project-based SSI financing,
Small Industry Departments (SID) were created in their headquarters. Key
officers of the SIDs were sent on an intensive five-week training with a
development bank in the Philippines. Subsequently, branch officers of about
200 key branches were brought to headquarters for a series of three-day
orientation courses.  To supplement the training coarses, a lending manual
was prepared and given to all SSI and other officers of the banks who were
expected to play a role in the SSI lending program.
5.08    Due to the limited number of trained staff, initially, project
appraisal was centralized at the banks' headquarters. However, the branches
were made responsible for preliminarily screening applicants, undertaking
credit analysis, forwarding applications to headquarters for appraisal,
disbursing approved subloans and maintaining subloan accounts.
5.09    This set-up proved to be effective, particularly in the initial
stages of project implementation. After all preparatory activities were
completed, subloan processing picked up quickly and was completed in a year
and a half, quicker than expected at appraisal. Centralization, however,
had its drawbacks, especially towards the later part of project
implementation, since project supervision and end-use monitoring was weak.
This weakness manifested itself in some problems with procurement and disbur-
sement procedures and initially poor collection performance. As more
1/ Detailed information on financial and economic performance of each
subproject is available in the project file.



-19-
officers were trained in project [ending, decentralization was pursued and
some functions were spun off to larger branches. In response to the initial
problems of collection and supervision, training on project supervision and
end-use monitoring was emphasized. Two operations audits were conducted by
representatives from the Bank's resident mission, the IDBP, PBC and the
headquarters of the PCIs to review procurement and disbursement procedures
and project supervision activities. These reviews identified areas of
weaknesses which. were fed back to the branches chrough instruction circulars
for correction.
5.10    Overall, the institution building objectives of the project for the
PCIs were substantially met. While there is plenty of room for further
streamlining of the SIDs at headquarters, their operational linkages with
the branches and the general systems and procedures for loan processing and
project monitoring, a sound basis was established by the first project. The
second project and the proposed third project contain components for further
improvement of the PCIs' staffing, systems and procedures.
5.11    Technical Assistance Agencies.  Institution building objectives were
explicit for the establishment of the two-service centers and for the project
development component in Baluchistan. They were implicit for the export
promotion component and were supposed to be accomplished through on-the-job
training of counterpart staff. Institution building for the Gujrat
Woodworking Service Center was substantially achieved such that by the time
the advisors left, the center could function with in-house staff. This was
achieved principally because GWSC was able to locate a competent project
manager who had several years of experience running a similar center.
Moreover, the performance of the center's advisors was, on the whole,
satisfactory. Relationship between the advisors and center staff was good
leading to substantial technology transfer from the former to the latter.
Finally, support from the headquarters of the Punjab Small Industries
Corporation was effective, timely and consistent.
5.12    The institution building efforts at the Bannu Leather Goods Service
Center was poor for basically opposite reasons. Due to the remote location
of the center, it could not attract the right project manager. The problem
was compounded by constant personality conflicts between the project manager
and one of the project advisors to such an extent that SIDB had to request
the advisor to be changed. Finally, due to the distance as well as the
managerial weakness of the SIDB headquarters, supporting facilities for the
center was weak.
5.13    Institution building of the Department of Small Industries in
Baluchistan was practically nil. The problem in this case was the lack of
qualified counterpart staff who could be trained by the consultants in
project development and promotion. The main reason again was the unattrac-
tiveness of the posting in Quetta, the capital of Baluchistan, which is quite
backward.  Despite intensive advert sing, the Government of Baluchistan could
not locate a suitable head for the proposed project development unit,
Government rules also prevented the provincial government from making the
post more attractive through financial and other incentives.
5.14    Weak institution building results under the export promotion com-
ponent were due to poor performance of both the project advisors and the
counterpart staff. Despite complaints from SSIC and EPB, the consulting
agency's response to the problem with the consultants was inadequate.
Cancellation of the contract of services was considered but not resorted to



-20-
since the problems were not documented well enough for legal recourse.
Moreover, part of the problem was due to the counterpart staff. In general,
while direct objectives of the TA components were substantially met, although
in varying degrees of success, the institution building results were basi-
cally poor. This was due partly to the lack of qualified counterpart staff
and partly due to the poor performance of some of the project advisors.
VI. ROLE OF IDA
6.01    Since the project was identified in 1977, IDA devoted a considerable
amount of direct and indirect staff and consultant efforts to project
development. IDA assisted UNIDO in undertaking a study of SSI subsectors,
findings of which were used in designing the project. Considering the com-
plexity of the project, IDA devoied greater effort than usual in helping the
Government prepare the project and, subsequently, in appraising and supervis-
ing the project. IDA employed consultants to assist in appraising the serv-
ice center components of the project which were relatively new. Formal
supervision missions and short visits were used to guide the PCIs and the
other agencies in project implementation. This proved to be crucial, espe-
cially at the start, since only one out of the ten implementing agencies had
prior relationships with IDA. Close coordination between the implementing
agencies and the staff of the Bank's resident mission helped facilitate
implementation and provide early attention to problems.
6.02    IDA played an important role in building the PCIs into effective
channels of SSI financing. This was done by advising them on organizational
arrangements, staffing, training and operating systems and procedures and by
providing them with literature and materials from similar operations in other
countries. IDA also assisted the implementing agencies in locating suitable
training courses and venues and in selecting consultants. Before approving
the selection of the international public sector agency for the export promo-
tion component, IDA provided EPB and SSIC with alternative private export
marketing consultants for their consideration. EPB and SSIC, however,
decided on the former with doubtful results (paras. 4.24-4.25). With regard
to the subsector and area potential studies, IDA assisted the implementing
agencies by reviewing drafts of reports prepared by consultants and providing
comments to improve the analysis and presentation of recommendations. IDA,
through the resident mission, carried out a special review of procurement and
disbursement procedures of sample PCI branches which was able to identify
procedural weaknesses and provide recommendations for improvement. The PCI
headquarters, IDBP and PBC were involved in this review for training purposes.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND TZSSONS LEARNED
7.01    Credit 1113-PAK was the first SSI project for Pakistan.  As such,
aside from the traditional objective of financial resource transfer, a major
aim was to design appropriate institutional arrangements which could develop
into an efficient system for delivering credit and technical assistance to
SSI. Policy reform objectives were modest since, aside from the tendency to
subsidize interest rates for SSI financing, the policy framework for SSI
investments and activity was found to be generally suitable.
7.02    Project preparation, which was supported by an extensive study of
five major SSI subsectors, was adequate. However, statistics on the whole



-21-
SSI sector in Pakistan were found to be inaccurate and unreliable. Yet, due
to the absence of any other source, these were used in project preparation.
This approach was considered adequate since the five subsector studies had
identified what were considered to be the major problems and constraints
common to all SSI subsectors and the proposed project was expected to have
direct impact only on about 2500 units or less than 5% of the total SSI
population. Under the proposed Third SSI Project, there will be a technical
assistance component which would address the problem of SSI statistics.
7.03    Considering the potential issue of subsidized lending for SSI,
project preparation and appraisal could have devoted more resources to the
analysis of the financial environment and policy framework. It was, however,
decided that in view of the move towards Islamization of the economy which
was supposed to start with the financial sector, there were too many unknowns
at that time to undertake useful financial sector work. This work was sub-
sequently undertaken by ASPID in July 1982, when Islamization had taken more
concrete directions and a meaningful analysis was considered possible.
Islamization had initiated movement towards the freeing of interest rates and
a more market-oriented approach to the pricing of capital. By allowing
financial institutions to freely negotiate rates of return and mark-ups
(Islamic terms for interest rate) within a range of 10-20% for short term
financing and setting only a minimum of 10% for term lending, tne imbalance
in some short and longer term rates which existed previously has been
corrected. Other interest rates, however continue to be fixed by the State
Bank of Pakistan. Dialogue on further interest rate rationalization is being
pursued through the Second Industrial Investment Credit and the proposed
Third SSI Project.
7.04    The objective of developing an efficient credit delivery system for
SSI was largely attained by the project although it is still being pursued
further under the Second SSI Project. Under the project, delineation of
roles between SSI financing and technical assistance was achieved by assign-
ing the former completely to the banks and the latter to the Small Industries
Corporations. This clarification of roles resulted in a clear definition of
responsibilities, reduced friction among institutions and re-oriented the
SICs from concerns about financing to the other important function of SSI
promotion and extension services.
7.05    Through training and organization arrangements, the project assisted
the commercial banks in organizing and staffing appropriately for project-
based SSI lending. At the headquarters of each bank, a Small Industry
Department (SID) was formed to undertake project appraisal. Key officers of
the SIDs received an intensive five-week training on SSI project appraisal
and supervision. About 400 branches were designated by the five banks to
process subloans; managers of these branches underwent training on SSI lend-
ing policies and procedures.
7.06    To re-orient the SICs toward promotion and extension services,
implementation of the technical assistance components was made their
responsibility. To promote coordination between the SICs and the banks, the
subproject preparation fund was established under which the SICs could assist
sponsors in preparing subproject proposals for appraisal by the banks.
Institution strengthening, however, for the SICs has been less successful
than that for the banks due to inherent problems with these government agen-
cies in staffing, policies and procedures, In succeeding projects, alterna-
tive channels in the private sector are being tried in areas where the SICs
are unable to deliver the right quality of promotion-extension services.



-22-
7.07    Specific lessons learned under the project include the following:
(a) expanding outlets for SSI financing from a single intermediary, i.e.
a DFC with a limited number of branches, to the five nationalized
commercial banks have improved SSI's access to credit with institu-
tional financing increasing from 30% to about 40% of SSI investment
requirements;
(b) while project-based appraisal methodology improves the ability of the
commercial banks in selecting projects, this should be complemented
with the traditional procedures of the commercial banks in assessing
credit-worthiness, to ensure financial viability of the lending
program through, among others, high collection rates;
(c) while the practice of imposing mandatory lending targets for SSI has
helped orient the commercial banks to the sector, expansion of SSI
financing occurred mainly because they were provided funds of match-
ing maturities and were given sufficient spreads to cover higher
administrative and risk costs;
(d) considering the initial lack of trained staff in commercial banks
for project-based lending, it is more efficient to start with a more
centralized loan processing system rather than requiring
decentralization right from the start. Decentralization can be
increased as more staff are trained and assigned to the branches;
ie) implementation of technical assistance components is usually much
slower than the subloan component. This is especially true when
foreign consultants are needed and civil works and importation of
equipment are required. Under this project, start-up of the techni-
cal assistance components took six months to one year more than
expected at appraisal; the last TA component was completed 18 months
after the subloan component was fully disbursed. While assistance by
the Bank in procuring consultants and equipment might help hasten
implementation, these delays are almost always present in public
sector projects. A larger subloan component, programmed for a longer
disbursement period, might help synchronize the subloan and TA com-
ponents and facilitate the preparation of a repeater project which
could be better justified on the basis of a fully, rather than
partially, completed previous project; and
(f) the technical assistance components achieved some degree of success
by focusing on the potential clientele even at the project designing
stage, involving private sector associations in policy making through
management committees, and defining specific objectives which are
modest and tailored to the strengths and weaknesses of the
implementing agency.
October 1986
Revised: May 1987



- 23-                             ANNEX I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
Projected and Actual Cumulative Disbursements
(US$ in millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year                   Appraisal                Actual 1/
and Quarter                       Amount      %           Amount      x
FY81    Third quarter 
Fourth quarter               0.5        2             -         -
FY82    First quarter                 1.7       6             -         -
Second quarter               3.5       12             -         -
Third quarter                5.9       20             -         -
Fourth quarter               8.7       29            0.1        0
FY83    First quarter               12e1       40            0.1        0
Second quarter              15.9       53            0.6        2
Third quarter               19.2       64            0.9        3
Fourth quarter              21.9       73            2.8        9
FY84    First quarter               23.7       79            4.3       14
Second quarter              25.5       85            9.2       31
Third quarter               27.3       91           17.4       58
Fourth quarter              28.5       95           22.1       74
FY85    First quarter               29.7       99           25.3       84
Second quarter              30.0      100           27.5       92
Third quarter                 -        -            29.5       98
Fourth quarter                -        -            29.6       99
FY86    First quarter                 -        -            29.6       99
Second quarter                -        -            30.0     100
1/  Due to revaluation of the US$, total actual disbursements in
US$ was 24.5 million. The amounts here were arrived at by using
the exchange rate at appraisal of US$1.00 = SDR 0.7867.
Source: IBRD, Disbursements Division



ANNEX 2
- 24 -                                 Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
Characteristics of Subprojects Financed
(Rs in million)
1.  Type of Projects                                 No.       Amount          Z
New                                              433        253.3         67
Existing                                         221        125.1         33
Total                                          654        378.4        100
2.  Subsectoral Distribution                         No.       Amount           x
Textiles and Garments                            105         56.7         15
Surgical Instruments                              16         10.5          3
Leather and Leather Goods                         12          5.4          1
Sports Goods                                       2          1.5          1
Light Engineering                                100         58.2         16
Furniture and Wood Products                       21         12.5          3
Oil Extraction                                    45         27.0          7
Cotton Ginning                                    44         33.1          9
Ice and Cold Storage                              75         38.5         10
Marble Processing                                  9          6.2          2
Printing and Packing                              28         19.1          5
Fruit and Vegetable Processing                    24         16.0          4
Rice/Flour Milling                                35         16.7          4
Hotel                                             11          7.4          2
Poultry Farm and Feeds                            27         15.6          4
Miscellaneous                                    100         54.2         14
Total                                         654        378.4         100
3.  Geographical Distribution                        No.       Amount          _
Punjab                                           402        225.1         60
Sind                                             191        114.0         30
NWFP                                              50         31.5          8
Baluchistan                                       11          7.8          2
Total                                         654        378.4         100
4. Size of Projects
a) Fixed Assets Excluding Land & Buildings   No.          Amount           X
Less than Rs 100,000                         38           1.9          1
Rs   100,000 - Rs   499,999                 210         53.5          13
Rs   500,000 - Rs   999,999                 249         147.0         36
Rs 1,000,000 - Rs 1,999,999                 128        144.2          35
Rs 2,000,000 and above                       29         61.2          15
Total                                     654        407.8         100



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
b)  Total Assets                                 No.       Amount           _
Less than Rs 500,000                          63         38.3          4
Rs   500,000 - Rs   999,999                  117        119.9          11
Rs 1,000,000 - Rs 1,999,999                  287        508.2         47
Rs 2,000,000 - Rs 2,999,999                  106        212.3         20
Rs 3,000,000 and above                        81        201.6         18
Total                                      654      1,080.3        100
c)  Size of Subloans                             No.       Amount           %
Less than Rs 500,000                         250         76.9         20
Rs   500,000 - Rs   999,999                  353        245.0         65
Rs 1,000,000 - Rs 1,499,999                   38         28.2           7
Rs 1,500,000 - Rs 1,999,999                    5          9.6           3
Rs 2,000,000 - Rs 2,999,999                    8         18.7           5
Rs 3,000,000 and above                        -           -             -
Total                                      654        378.4        100
5.  Maturity of Subloans                              No.       Amount          %
3 to 5 years                                 168         70.7          19
5 to 7 years                                 174         96.9         25
7 to 10 years                                312        210.8         56
Total                                      654        378.4        100
6.  Employment Generated                              No 
Punjab                                     8,051                      63
Sind                                       3,475                      27
NWFP                                         854                        7
Baluchistan                                  410                       3
Total                                   12790                      100
7.  Employment Size                                   No.      Amount           %
Up to 20 workers                              294        117.7         31
20 to 49 workers                              290        188.2         50
50 to 99 workers                               58         60.5         16
Over 100 workers                               12         12.0           3
Total                                       654        378.4        100
8.  Distribution by PCI                               No.       Amount          _
ABL                                            56         43.3          11
HBL                                           156         88.9          23
MCB                                            98         60.1          16
NBP                                           172         88.3         23
UBL                                           172         97.8         27
Total                                       654        378.4        100
Source: IDBP and PCI completion reports.



- 26 -                                 ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
Collection Performance of PCIs between FY82-FY86
(Rs in million)
Amounts                                      Arrears
Arrears at   Palling                                       at End of
Beginning    Due During   Total Dues    Collections    the Year
of Year_      the Year       (1+2)      Amount % of 3       (3-4)
(1)          (2) -W(3)                 (4)      (S)
June 1982
Principal        -             -             -           -       -          -
Interest         -           0.118         0.118         -       -        0.118
Total          -           0.118         0.118         -       -        0.118
June 1983
Principal        -           5.734         5.734      3.666    63.9       2.068
Interest      0.118        11,271        11.389       6.577    57.7       4.812
Total        0.118        17.005       17,123      10.243    59.8       6.880
June 1984
Principal      2.068        37.832       39.900      19.210    48.1    20.690
Interest      4.812        40.359        45.171      21.885    48.4    23.286
Total       6.880        78.191        85.071      41.095    48.3    43.976
June 1985
Principal    20.690         18.862       39.552      27.377    69.2    12.175
Interest      23.286       32.047        55.333      31.138    56.3    24.195
Total      43.976        50.909        94.885      58.515    61.7    36.370
December 1985
Principal    12.175        50.643        62.818      38.594    61.4    24.224
Interest     24.195        58.389        82.584      58.937    71.4    23.647
Total      36.370       109.032       145.402      97.531    67.1    47.871
Source:  IDBP and PCI completion reports.



- 27 -                                 ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN - FIRST SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
(CREDIT 1113-PAK)
Subloan Arrears
(Rs in million)
Loan Portfolio Affected by Arrears
Below 12 months          Above 12  months             Total
% of Total              Z of Total              X of Total
Amount    Portfolio      Amount   Portfolio       Amount   Portfolio
1982                   -           -           -            -           -
1983     5.0          3.7         0.6         0.4          5.6         4.1
1984    25.3          7.1         2.6         0.7         27.9         7.8
1985    16.5          5.2        20.2         6.5         36.7        11.8
Source: IDBP and PCI Completion Reports



_ 28 -                      ATTACHME1NT I
COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BfKOF PAKISTAN
RCA9.'03
2484234 WORI IPPANK
2 5722 1}-))II PK
248423 WORIA IIPANK
WO)RL)) O3ANK
WASH X No4TlN liC
FOR MR* AL.fXANIk:KR NOWIK I
DIVtSXYI;N (HIXFF
OPFI:RAI iINS 4FVAIIAUATYON )WPAKRTMINT
RF )RAF1' PC H ON X '; (:R':1)   111 . -KPAIK
REPt'01 IX FXHAIIS rYVF AN) HAIR (COVNkh'll Al-1. TMPlRQrANr ASPECS
STOP HOWE:Ve.'R 3;TA)fl:MENT XN F i;1%;1 3 I..XNE (ON PA(E. 4 THAT
COMNER(V1AL I4ANK; PRUVYD)F *riM F XNAN(,XN(; rO Al)KX(:l)l. rTIRE AND       Reflected in
IND1USTR  Amt ) )1FXS , ( tit1:.M:IN1  1-HE£.tK ASS( X1TANI(F WXIlH S-HORT   para. 2.06.
TERM WOHkKIN  (:AI1 fTAI  SS NOTr ("ORRF.(Nr s8roP *rHF F:t,  xx 1XFIS
PROVXDIF rERM1 H   f .. .CN)D C)OIIMEl(,XAl. )HANKS; P   ):V'IC SHORT TERM
WORKXNi CAP:i rAI 81 (ih  RB;ARI'S
BAW41XR AHMAD
MANAO1N(i II)RF(:'IOR
23722 ]flJ4P PK
23-722! IPH PK 
248423 WR)Rt:)'ANK,.##
=03300917
=0:4:4 o ) 01. 27



