Docurnent ot' lI
The World Bank                           toUp
FOR OFFICIAI. USE ONIY
Report No. 3216a--AK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES P'ROJECT
February 20, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1          = Rs 9.9
Rs 1          = US$0.101
ACRONYMS
ABL       -    Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited
BLGSC     -    Bannu Leather Goods Service Center
BLSMA     -    Bannu Leather and Shoe Manufacturers Association
CGS       -    Credit Guarantee Scheme
EPB       -    Export Promotion Bureau
GFMA      -    Gujrat Furniture Makers Association
GOP       -    Government of Pakistan
GWSC      -    Gujrat Woodworking Service Center
HBL       -    Habib Bank Limited
IACP      -    Investment Advisory Center of Pakistan
IDBP      -    Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
ITC       -    International Trade Center (Geneva)
IPB       -    Investment Promotion Bureau
MCB       -    Muslim Commercial Bank Limited
NBP       -    National Bank of Pakistan
NCCC      -    National Credit Consultative Council
NDFC      -    National Development Finance Corporation
NWFP      -    North West Frontier Province
PBC       -    Pakistan Banking Council
PC-l      -    Planning Commission Form No. 1
PICIC     -    Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
PIDE      -    Pakistan Institute of Development Economics
PSIC      -    Punjab Small Industries Corporation
SBP       -    State Bank of Pakistan
SEVP      -    Senior Executive Vice President
SIC       -    Small Industries Corporation
SIDB      -    Small Industries Development Board
SIW       -    Small Industries Wing
SSI       -    Small-Scale Industries
SSIC      -    Sind Small Industries Corporation
UBL       -    United Bank Limited
WPSIC     -    West Pakistan Small Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan: July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks:         January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL INDUSTRIES P?ROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ..............................................                       1
II.  SECTORAL FRAMEWORK .......................                                         2
A.    Industrial Sector ..................................                       2
B.    Small-Scale Industry  ...............................                      5
C.    Financing of SSI ...................................                       5
Financial Environment  ..............................                     8
Impact of Islamization .............................                      9
D.    Technical Assistance  for SSI .......................                      9
III.    PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS OF KEY SMALL SCALE SECTORS                     .......   12
A.   The UNIDO Study  ....................................                      12
B.    Textiles/Garments  ..................................                    13
C.    Surgical Goods  .....................................                    14
D.    Leather Goods  ......................................                    15
E.    Sports Goods ........................................                    17
F.    Light Engineering  ..................................                    18
G.    Conclusions  .........................................                   19
IV. THE PROJECT    ..19
A.    Objectives,  Scope and Institutional Arrangements  ...                   19
B.    Project Costs and Financing Plan  ....... ..               ..........    21
C.    Credit Component:   IDBP Refinance and Subproject
Eligibility Criteria  .............         ..      .................    22
Participating Commercial Banks  ........ ..               ...........    24
National Bank of Pakistan (NBP)                     .        .           25
Habib Bank Limited  (HBL)  ...........         ..      ..............    26
United Bank Limited  (UBL)  ............        ..      .............    26
Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB)  ......... ..               ............    27
Allied Bank Limited (ABL)  ...........          ..      .............    28
D.  Technical Assistance Components                        .        .          28
1.   Gujrat Woodworking Service Center . .               .............   28
2.   Bannu Leather Goods Service Center  ....                .........   30
3.   Export Promotion Components  .....................                  31
4.   Project Development  for Baluchistan  ....              ........    32
5.   Fund for Subsector Studies and Project
Preparation ..................              ...............      33
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Balkind, K.P. Teh, J. Pernia, H. Helle
(Consultant), and M. El-Khair (Consultant) following their appraisal mission
to Pakistan in June 1980, with assistance from D. Khan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
-J



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
V.   THE  CREDIT    ....................... ........................  34
A.   Main Terms and Conditions .....     .....................    34
B.   Implementation Features .....     .......................    35
C.  Monitoring/Post-Evaluation ............ .............   41
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................................   42
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................   44
List of Annexes
1. Value Added, Fixed Assets, and Employment in the Manufacturing Sector
1959/60-1975/76
2. Industrial Investment, 1963/64-1978/79
3. Economic Ratios: All Industry and Small Scale Sectors (3 tables)
4. Commercial Bank Loans for SSI (4 tables); Interest Rate Structure
5. Profile of Small Industries Corporations
6. Profile of the SIC Industrial Estates
7. Profile of SIC Service Centers
8. Detailed Cost Tables: Total Project
9. Gujrat Service Center: List of Machinery and Equipment
10. Gujrat Woodwork Center: Management Committee and Advisors
11. Bannu Service Center: List of Machinery and Equipment
12. Bannu Leather Goods Center: Management Committee and Advisors
13. Financing Requirements for IDBP's Small Industry Refinance Department
14. Disbursement Schedule
15. Supporting Documents Available in Project File
Charts
1.  Organization Chart of PSIC
2.   Organization Chart of Muslim Commercial Bank, including special SSI unit.
3.   Organization Chart of Proposed Gujrat Service Center
4.   Organization Chart of Proposed Bannu Service Center
Map
IBRD 15303: Pakistan SSI Project: Location of Project Service Centers
(Gujrat and Bannu).



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL INDUSTRIES E'ROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Pakistan (GOP) has requested an IDA credit to
finance small-scale industries (SSI) development. GOP recognizes the impor-
tance and potential of the SSI sector, but clear policies to stimulate this
sector and to streamline credit and technical assistance institutions have
been slow to evolve. SSI responsibility lies with the four provinces without
effective coordination and integration at the national level. There is
unclear division of labor between financial intermediaries and technical
assistance and promotion agencies. Different institutions use different
definitions of SSI. Finally, there is a lack of reliable data concerning the
size, structure and economic importance of the sector.
1.02      In February 1977, IDA undertook a project identification mission
which recommended preparation by the Ministry of Industries of a project that
would focus on term lending by the commercial banks and selective components
of the provincial Small Industries Corporations' (SIC) programs. Subsequently,
a two-phase study of five important SSI subsectors--textiles and garments,
surgical instruments, leather goods, sports goods and light engineering--was
initiated by UNIDO, with IDA providing assistance in study design. The pur-
poses of the Study were to: (i) analyze the problems and prospects of each
of the five subsectors; (ii) recommend improvements in policies and practices;
and (iii) formulate profiles for typical projects in the five subsectors.
Phase I of the UNIDO Study which consisted of data-gathering and tabulation
was completed in mid-1979. Project preparation and pre-appraisal missions
were undertaken in November 1979 and February 1980, respectively, to develop
project components and institutional arrangements. 'Project appraisal took
place in May/June 1980. Phase II of the UNIDO Study, which analyzes the pros-
pects for the five subsectors mentioned and presents profiles for typical new
and expansion projects in each subsector, has been completed; the profiles
provide practical and useful guidelines for the commercial banks in their
subproject appraisals and for the SICs in undertaking promotion and extension
services during project implementation. Negotiations were completed in
January 1981.
1.03      The objectives of the proposed credit are:  (i) to assist the
development of SSI units in promising subsectors by providing funds for term
lending through the commercial banks; (ii) to assist in orienting the commer-
cial banks towards a longer term project appraisal approach in their SSI
lending; (iii) to assist two SICs in providing technical assistance, extension
services and training to selected subsectors; (iv) to support export promotion
of selected handicrafts and SSI products; and (v) to initiate project develop-
ment exercises in the least developed province of Baluchistan. This report
recommends a credit of SDR 23.6 million (US$30.0 million equivalent) to meet
these objectives.



-2-
1.04      The proposed credit would assist in streamlining the division of
labor between the various agencies involved in SSI development. The subsector-
specific technical assistance, promotion and extension services components,
which would be implemented by the SICs, have been designed to complement the
credit component. The commercial banks are well-developed with extensive
branch networks. Refinance and review of subloans would be undertaken by the
Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP). The proposed project would
constitute IDA's first such relationship with commercial banks in Pakistan's
industrial sector; to date, IBRD/IDA industrial loans and credits through
financial intermediaries have been to the three development banks.
II. SECTORAL FRAMEWORK
A.   Industrial Sector
2.01      After agriculture, manufacturing is the largest sector in Pakistan
in terms of its contribution to GDP. In the 1970s, it constituted about 15%
of GDP and employed about 13-15% of the workforce. Industry and industrial
growth have been concentrated in Sind (mainly Karachi) and Punjab; the North-
west Frontier Province (NWFP) and Baluchistan together produce only about 10%
of industrial output.
2.02      Performance.  During the first half of the 1960s, industrial value
added grew, in real terms, at about 15% per annum (Annex 1). 1/ In the
second half of the 1960s, however, output growth fell to 8% per annum while
industrial investment stagnated, or even declined in real terms (Annex 2).
This was due to several factors: the 1965 war with India, deterioration of
the investment climate, uncertain political conditions, tight credit policies,
and erratic raw material supplies. The substantial excess capacity created by
past large investments may have also inhibited investment during the latter
half of the 1960s. Finally, towards the end of the 1960s, the easy stage of
import-substitution of consumer goods through high protection was nearly
over.
2.03      During the first half of the 1970s, output, and particularly invest-
ment by large and medium-scale private industries, registered negative growth,
while employment grew at a lower rate of 2% per annum (compared to 3% in the
1960s). Political and economic events and policies during this period all
played a part. The separation of the East Wing resulted in loss of sources
of supply and markets. The nationalizations during 1973-75 and other Govern-
ment measures created business uncertainty which slowed down private investment
in large and medium-scale manufacturing. The May 1972 devaluation and liberal-
ization of the import-export control regime increased the financial cost of
Yj  ~Nalue-aqAeA k     iaex;e.    ea  .sx in   tic '?rces  i:aClusi've of protection;
it would be lower when measured at world prices.



- 3 -
imported capital equipment and raw materials, and reduced greatly the incen-
tive to create excess capacity. 1/ It probably also reduced the relative
incentives for the manufacturing sector vis-a-vis the other sectors. 2/ The
oil price increase of 1973 and world recession of 1974/75, adversely affected
the manufacturing sector in Pakistan, as elsewhere. Political developments
during this period also caused labor unrest and a decline in labor productivity.
2.04      However, the more fundamental reason for the problems of Pakistan's
manufacturing sector is the inefficient industrial structure that has devel-
oped behind the high wall of tariffs and quantitative import restriction (which,
though initially imposed for balance of payments reasons, remained to protect
industries that had been established). Industries with no comparative advan-
tage were set up and those with comparative advantage became inefficient
through lack of import competition. In the mid-1960s, Pakistan's manufacturing
sector had a nominal protection of 93% and effective protection of 271%. 3/
While the 1972 devaluation probably reduced the relative incentives for manu-
facturing, the sector appears to still enjoy high protection. 4/
2.05      In the last few years, as a result of a more favorable economic
climate and various incentives and policy measures by GOP to revitalize
industry (para 2.08), private industrial investment has revived, although
public industrial investment has maintained its share of over 70% of total
investments (Annex 2). Although industrial output has grown at a satisfactory
rate of about 8% p.a., major problems remain in the sector, the most important
of these being low productivity, poor management and excess labor in public
sector corporations (a significant problem which GOPI is addressing). Prospects
for the private sector have improved in the last twco years, although large-
scale investors still remain somewhat cautious. 5/ The rebound of manufac-
tured exports is particularly evident in 1978/79, which grew by 20% over
1977/78, compared to 3.3% annually (in real terms) during FY70-78. While
textiles, especially cotton textiles, continue to dominate manufactured
exports, the share of other products such as carpets, surgical instruments
and leather goods, has been increasing.
1/   Before May 1972, the system of allocating import licenses to manufacturers
on the basis of their production capacity led to much excess capacity.
Import licenses had traded at a premium equivalent to the ultimate
level of the rupee devaluation.
2/   See A.R. Kemal and Zaluta Alvie, "Effect of 1972 Devaluation on Pakistan's
Balance of Trade, Pakistan Development Review, Vol. XIV, No. 1 (Spring
1975), pp. 1-22, and Stephen E. Guisinger, "A Note on the Effective
Exchange Rate for Pakistan's Manufactured Exports, 1968-75, Pakistan
Development Review, Vol. XVI, No. 1 (Spring 1977), pp. 101-106.
3/   Little, Scitovsky and Scott, Industry and Trade in Some Developing
Countries, Oxford University Press, 1970, pp. 163 and 174.
4/   Pakistan:  Some Aspects of Industrial Policy, white cover sector report,
November 1979.
5f' See Appraisal Report for Credit 1019 (2834-PAK dated April 22, 1980).



-4-
2.06      Factor Efficiency.  Annex 3 shows that the capital/labor ratios
for all industries increased rapidly from 1959/60 to 1964/65, increased at a
lower rate between 1964/65 and 1970/71, and fell between 1970/71 and 1975/76
to around Rs 6,000. The increased K/L in the sixties was due to the scope
still existing for import-substituting industrial investments, the capital-
intensive bias of an overvalued exchange rate (prior to 1972), and the bias
towards excess capacity encouraged by the import licensing system. Better
investment allocation would probably have taken place in the manufacturing
sector with a less distorted exchange rate and without the import control and
licensing system. However, the reduction in the K/L in the seventies appears
to have been caused more by the decline in industrial investments and the
inability of units to reduce labor employed than by improved investment
allocation.
2.07      For the manufacturing sector as a whole, the capital-output ratio
fell from 1959/60 to 1975/76, as a result of declining investment and the fact
that over time excess capacity was reduced. The incremental capital-output
ratio (ICOR) also fell over the 1960s, but increased in the period 1970/71 to
1975/76, when both capital investment and output change were negative, show-
ing that output fell to a greater extent than capital investment (see Annex
3). The output-labor ratio fell steadily from Rs 8,640 in FY71, to Rs 7,320
in FY76. This decline in labor productivity was principally due to decreased
investment, obsolescent equipment, shortage of spare parts, and poor labor
relations. Overmanning, particularly in the public industrial sector, was
also an important factor.
2.08      Incentives. 1/  During the 1960s, an elaborate industrial incentive
system was built-up which included high protection, differential rates of
exchange and interest, tax holidays, low controlled wage rates, and an array
of export incentives. However, the system has been changed considerably since
the 1972 devaluation. While the industrial incentives, particularly protection,
have remained high throughout, they were not able to offset the deterioration
in the investment climate during the early and mid-1970s. Since 1977, in an
effort to revitalize the private sector, the Government has adopted several
incentives such as exemption of import duty on some machinery and materials,
extension of tax holidays especially for less developed areas, and restrictions
on the export of materials required as inputs for local industry. Many of
these incentives were aimed specifically at rehabilitation of the textile
industry and the promotion of investment in less developed areas. GOP has
also opened up a few industries, such as cement, for private sector investment,
is disinvesting its holdings in some public sector corporations, albeit
cautiously, and is reorganizing others. Furthermore, it has stated that no
further nationalizations will take place.
1/   IDA's current industrial sector work program includes studies of effective
exchange rates, effective protection and industrial incentives, part of
'hic'n is being cattiei ont 'b  the Pakistan Institute of Development
Economics (PIDE)).  An i ustmti-a  sectorw  ssio is            jaae for late
1981 or early 1982.



-5-
B.   Small-Scale Industry
2.09      The Government's Fifth Five-Year Plan (1978-83) assigns high priority
to the development of small scale industry, which is defined as manufacturing
units with fixed assets, excluding land, of less than Rs 3.0 million, valued
at historical cost. Although SSI accounts for only 25% of industrial output,
it employs about 85% of the industrial work force. The share of SSI exports
has also been increasing, from an estimated 12% in FY75 to about 20% in FY79
(its share of all manufactured exports was 47% in FY79).   In recent years,
the SSI sector appears to have expanded more rapidly than the large and
medium-scale private manufacturing sector as indicated by higher rates of
investment. 1/ Small firms are generally less affected by political uncer-
tainties, encounter fewer labor problems being non-unionized, and through
employment of casual labor are more able to alter production schedules
according to demand. Chapter 3 analyzes the problems and prospects of five
of Pakistan's most important SSI subsectors.
2.:10     GOP's policies are formulated on a sectoral rather than on a scale
basis. Nevertheless, there has been recognition of the role of SSI and
certain specific incentives were introduced, such as lower interest rates on
SIC-sponsored schemes prior to 1978 (para 2.17). 2/ However, these measures
appear to have played a marginal role in determining the relative attractive-
ness of small-scale units; far more important were the exemptions they received
from labor laws, minimum wage legislation, legislatively required benefit
payments to workers, and payment of various taxes. 3/ Furthermore, projects
costing less than Rs 5 million in total or Rs 2.5 million of imported machi-
nery and equipment do not require approval from the Investment Promotion
Bureau (IPB).
C.   Financing of SSI
2.11      The central bank--the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP)--has been con-
cerned with the problem of inadequate availatility of credit to small borrowers
since it was highlighted by the Credit Enquiry Commission in 1959. SBP has
introduced various measures to change the distribution of credit. The Banking
1/   SSI investment ranged between 20-30% of total private industrial invest-
ment in the 1970s, compared to 10-14% in 1960s (Annex 2).
2/   During the 1960s, when there were generous incentives for private indus-
try, there was a large element of de facto discrimination against SSI.
The import-control system tended to allocate import licenses and grant
duty exemptions on imported materials and equipment to larger enter-
prises, given their greater influence.
3/   Units with less than 20 workers were exempt from payment of social secur-
ity and education cess tax. Prior to 1978 textile weaving units having
less than four power looms were exempt from payment of excise duty. In
other cases, exemption was due to the difficulty in implementing legis-
lation with respect to small units, e.g., in the case of minimum wage
Zegislation and income taxa payments.



- 6 -
Reform of May 1972 led to the nationalization of the 11 indigenous banks in
1974 (para 4.07). The Reform also had as one of its aims a re-direction of
credit to small entrepreneurs and farmers. For this purpose, special insti-
tutions and schemes were created (paras 2.13-2.18).
2.12       Credit Control:  The National Credit Consultative Council (NCCC)
was created in 1972 to formulate credit control and other anti-inflationary
measures, and to bring about a change in the distribution of bank credit.
Its membership is composed of representatives of GOP, SBP, and the private
sector. NCCC formulates the annual credit plan in which targets for overall
monetary and credit expansion are laid out. On the basis of this plan, the
Government decides on the allocation of credit expansion between the public
and the private sectors, and on the sectoral allocations taking into account
the Annual Development Plan and the Investment schedule. The permissible
credit expansion for each commercial bank is determined by the relative size
of the bank (the average of its share of total deposits and advances during
the fiscal year). If credit ceilings are exceeded, banks are required to pay
to SBP penalty interest of 17-18% on the amount of excess funds loaned (para
4.09). Within the constraints of the overall credit ceilings, the banks are
also required to meet minimum targets for small loans to industry, business,
housing, and agriculture (para 2.18).
2.13       Pakistan Banking Council (PBC).  This administrative body was
created to coordinate the commercial banks' activities, make banking policy
recommendations, and formulate performance criteria for the nationalized
banks. PBC's membership consists of a Chairman, an official of the Ministry
of Finance, and 4 other members appointed by GOP.
2.14       Small Loans Scheme for Businessmen and Industrialists.  This scheme
was introduced on December 1, 1972. Small loans are presently defined by SBP
as: (i) all loans irrespective of amount provided to industrial units with
fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, whose original investment value
does not exceed Rs 3.0 million 1/; and (ii) any loan up to Rs 100,000 irre-
spective of project size. The scheme was intended to make the processing
of loan applications more efficient and to emphasize the need to increase
lending to SSI units. For a new business or industry, a loan was to be
provided to meet initial investment requirements on the guarantee of two
creditworthy parties acceptable to the lending bank. However, for estab-
lished customers, collateral requirements were relaxed.
2.15      Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS).  To encourage the commercial banks
to extend credit to borrowers under the Small Loans Scheme, SBP created
in 1972 a CGS with an initial amount of Rs 20 million. Under the scheme, SBP
would provide credit guarantees of up to 50% of any loss on small loans
incurred by the commercial banks. The scheme, however, is not functioning
effectively. To date, 93 claims have been filed, but none has been paid out
by SBP. Commercial banks, consequently, do not rely on the CGS, and have
become more risk-averse in their lending to small borrowers than they would
otherwise 'nave been.  SBW  is wotking 'wiXt the )aDZxO -o st ea          o
but is reluctant to relax its requirements; these are that SBP would be
1/   The definition used by the SICs excludes only land.



- 7 -
satisfied that the loan was made in accordance with sound criteria, particu-
larly with regard to collateral; that all recovery measures have been attempted,
including litigation; and that a legitimate loss has been incurred by the
commercial bank. IDA has developed manuals for streamlining CGS schemes based
on experience in other countries. For example, the 50% share in loss should
be paid out within six months of an established loss and, to the extent that
claims are recovered eventually, the refinance agency would receive 50% of the
repayments. SBP is committed to improving the workings of its CGS along these
lines.
2.16      The SIC Schemes.  Since the 1960's, the SICs have had special consor-
tium schemes for the financing of SSI units either by commercial banks or IDBP.
The two schemes are basically similar, except that the commercial banks would
provide local currency financing while IDBP would normally provide foreign
currency.   The SIC would share 50% of the loss in the commercial bank case
and 75% in the IDBP case. In principle, the SICs would promote and appraise
the project while the commercial banks/IDBP would be responsible for determin-
ing the creditworthiness of the borrowers and for financing the projects that
were approved by a Technical Advisory Committee whlich consisted of represent-
atives from the provincial government, the SIC concerned, and the commercial
bank. In practice, delays have been extensive (processing and approval taking
10-12 months instead of two months) with strong dissatisfaction between the
SICs and the banks of each other's role and analyses. After sanctioning, the
SICs would be responsible for project supervision and the banks for follow-up
and recovery of the loans. In practice, little supervision has been under-
taken by the SIC's and repayment performance has been poor (about 30% of loans
in arrears) primarily because of the confused and overlapping responsibilities
between the banks and the SICs. Given the experience under the consortium
arrangements, the proposed credit adopts a clear division of labor between
commercial banks, IDBP, and SICs.
2.17      Terms under the Schemes.  Most loans under the SIC schemes have
been medium-term (2-5 years). Prior to 1978, when commercial banks were
charging 13 or 14% on term loans, the SIC scheme offered credit at 12%.
However, with the introduction of a uniform 11% lending rate (para 2.21),
the incentive for a sponsor to apply for a SIC-sponsored loan fell away.
Consequently, the number of these loans has decreased significantly (para
4.11).
2.18      SBP Mandatory Targets for SSI Loans.  Since 1972, SBP has set man-
datory targets for commercial bank loans to small business and industry.
The lending target, which is expressed in terms of the net increment to the
amount of small loans disbursed and outstanding cs of June 30 in given years,
consists of (i) loans under the SBP Small Loans Scheme, (ii) the SIC Schemes,
and (iii) general lending by the bank to small units. Should a commercial
bank fail to achieve its target (monitored weekly), it is required to deposit
with SBP at no interest the amount of shortfall tntil the gap is closed.
2.19      Annex 4, Table I shows the mandatory targets and achievements by
each bank for FY73-79. Actual loans failed to meet the mandatory targets in
the initial four years. Total loans under the scheme increased from Rs 419
million in FY73 to Rs 816 million in FY79 (average growth rate of 14% p.a.)



- 8 -
despite the difficult period. However, total loans to the manufacturing
and commerce sectors by all scheduled banks (which includes foreign banks)
increased at an average rate of 16% p.a. during the same period. Thus, while
loans to small borrowers in business and industry increased, total advances
to these sectors (large and small scale) increased faster.  Further, most of
the loans have gone to business and commerce rather than industry, and mostly
for working capital rather than fixed investment. In July 1979 SBP began to
set separate lending targets for industry and business, and for fixed invest-
ment and working capital within each category. Penalties for shortfalls apply
to each sub-category. However, the banks are finding it difficult to meet
the fixed investment targets for small industry due to their lack of long-term
funds and inadequate appraisal experience. Thus, the IDA credit would perform
the important functions of providing credit for fixed investment with appro-
priate maturities and of upgrading the capacity of the banks to appraise term
loans.
Financial Environment
2.20      Interest Rates.  The structure of the industrial finance sector is
described in the appraisal report for Credit 1019-PAK. 1/  Annex 4, Table 5
shows the interest rate structure in Pakistan, particularly the key elements
that would affect SSI credit. Interest rates on short-term deposits held with
the commercial banks have been steadily increasing from an average of 4.7% in
June 1975 to 7.3% in December 1979 varying by type of savings account. The
largest category is regular savings accounts which bear an interest rate of
10%. Fixed deposits (3 months to 3 years) carry interest rates of up to 11.4%
(weighted average). Commercial bank working capital loans carry an interest
rate of 14% or upwards, compounded quarterly.
2.21      PICIC, IDBP and NDFC currently make foreign exchange and local
currency loans at around 11%, with special fees on the subborrower, recently
introduced, to cover foreign exchange risk in those cases where GOP is carry-
ing the risk.  In July 1978, SBP had reduced the rate on PICIC and IDBP's
rupee loans to 11% (previously 13%) to provide an incentive to local currency
financing. 2/  At that time, the commercial banks' long-term lending rate was
also reduced to 11% which is the current rate. The rate of inflation is about
1/   Report No. 2834a, dated April 22, 1980, paras 2.20-2.29.
2/   PICIC and IDBP also have access to special credits from SBP to finance
the purchase of locally manufactured machinery, under which loans are
made at 8.5%. Demand for these loans is increasing due to improved
machinery and equipment now being produced locally. The borrowers tend
to be the medium-sized and larger scale firms of PICIC's and IDBP's
thienprosel,ad cet t.e SSt Urits who would be the tat
the proposed credit.



- 9 -
10% p.a. and projected to remain so in the immediate future. 1/ The real rate
is thus positive. As part of the annual budget exercise and possibly at more
frequent intervals in conjunction with SBP credit policies, GOP would review
the adequacy of lending rates to SSI units in order to maintain a positive
real rate for lending under the credit.
Impact of Islamization
2.22      In recent years, GOP has been considering the possibility of intro-
ducing an interest-free or profit and loss-sharing economic system. On June
20, 1980, two new levies were introduced: (i) Zakat (annual levy of 2.5% on
personal assets including savings held at a bank); (ii) Ushr (5% levy on agri-
cultural production).  A high-level government commission has been reviewing
the interest-free proposals and the practicability of introducing changes into
the banking system that would provide for profit-sharing arrangements. One
proposal is to set up "interest-free windows" at commercial banks. Clients
would deposit their money without earning interest, in return for which they
would possibly obtain interest-free loans or share in the profits of the
banks. 2/ However, the problems of inadequate accounting and the possibility
of increased conservatism on the part of the banks in providing credit to the
safest customers are recognized; so are the allocational problems of a dual
system in which some types of lending would be exermpt from interest-free
measures, and other types would not. 3/ One of the other measures already
taken is the restriction that mutual funds floated by the Investment Corpora-
tion of Pakistan and the National Investment Trust may hold only profit-
sharing assets or equity shares in companies, and not debentures.  The tech-
niques to be used in implementing a profit-sharing system are still under
formulation and GOP intends to move cautiously in applying any changes.
D.  Technical Assistance for SSI
2.23      Promotion and extension services for SSI are a provincial government
responsibility carried out by the Punjab Small Industries Corporation (PSIC);
the Sind Small Industries Corporation (SSIC), the Small Industry Development
1/   The latest Bank Economic Report stated that the inflation rate during
1979/80 was 7-8%. For the year ended June 30, 1980, the inflation rate
(CPI) is officially estimated by GOP to have been 10% (the index, which
has limited coverage, is heavily weighted by goods over which GOP exer-
cises price controls). The inflation rate is projected to remain at
10% or slightly less over the next 2-3 years.
2/   A seminar on "Interest-Free Banking" was held in Karachi in September
1980 during which a number of the official agencies and financial
institutions delivered papers on the proposals and implications of
an "Interest-Free System."
3/   GOP has previously undertaken (informally) that in connection with the
PICIC, IDBP and NDFC loans and credits, Islamization would not affect
the basic terms, since these are foreign credits and are used for
foreign exchange subloans.



- 10 -
Board (SIDB) of NWFP, and the Small Industries Wing (SIW) in Baluchistan. 1/
The SICs, however, perceive their role to be broader and to encompass all
aspects of small industry development. As mentioned in para 2.16, in the past
the SICs have been involved in loan appraisals, which has resulted in less
effort being devoted to extension services and training of small entrepreneurs.
2.24      Several national-level agencies are also involved in assisting SSI,
e.g., the Appropriate Technology Development Organization and the Pakistan
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research in the field of technology
research and development; the Investment Advisory Center of Pakistan (IACP)
in the preparation of sector and subsector studies; the Pakistan Industrial
Technical Assistance Center in technical training and extension services
for the engineering industry; Pak-German Technical Training Center in the
provision of skills training; and the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB) in export
market development.
2.25      Organization of the SICs.  The SICs used to be area offices of the
West Pakistan Small Industry Corporation (WPSIC) which was established in 1965
in Lahore, with responsibility over West Pakistan. In 1972, WPSIC was split
into semi-autonomous SICs under the provincial administrations. The Central
Government continues to have a minimal role on SSI programs. Since most of
the staff, projects and activities of WPSIC were concentrated in the Punjab
province, PSIC inherited most of them. The other three SICs have been expand-
ing following the PSIC or WPSIC model. Thus, their policies, outlook, organi-
zational structure, and projects undertaken are similar. Annex 5 presents
a comparative profile of the four SICs.
2.26      PSIC is the best organized SIC with the largest technical staff
of 202 professionals (Chart 1). SIDB is more flexible and decentralized, and
most of its projects operate as semi-autonomous ventures. SSIC has oriented
its programs mainly towards the craft industry (brassware, marblecraft,
woodcraft, embroidery, etc.) particularly in marketing. On the other hand,
PSIC has concentrated on assistance to the organized small industry sector
along the Lahore-Gujranwala-Siallkot axis, where the bulk of SSI activity
exists. All SICs are extensively involved in training and production in the
carpet industry and, to a lesser degree, in other crafts. SIDB and SIW tend
to establish public sector projects due to a perceived lack of interest by the
private sector. However, the other SICs have also established their own
projects, sometimes before private sector interest had been fully explored.
2.27      Except for SIW, the SICs operate fairly independently of their
respective governments. The Boards, which meet infrequently, have little
influence on the SICs' operations. The Managing Directors do not delegate
sufficiently to their Department heads which exacerbates the evident low
morale. Total personnel strength of the SICs is 3,385, of whom 350 are pro-
fessional staff. For institutions whose main function is to provide tech-
nical services, the SICs clearly have proportionately too many clerical staff.
Moreover, as many as 37% of the professionals are based at headquarters, which
is imbalanced for field-oriented technical assistance agencies. Total assets
of the % LCs are ahoxxt Rs 300  diR lio'x   (Rs 100 taillion are in fixed assets)
1/   In  Baluchistan, the SIW remained a unit of the Department of Commerce
and Industry. The term SICs in this report includes activities of SIW.



- 11 -
and annual operating budgets combined are about Rs 30 million. Aside from
foreign grants and loans, the SICs would receive from provincial budgets funds
to finance their capital expenditure programs which are discussed below.
2.28      Industrial Estates.  The SICs currently administer 16 estates and
are developing/planning several more. 1/ Developed plots are allocated to
SSIs, typically on 20-year lease-purchase arrangements with a 20% downpayment.
Annex 6 provides a breakdown of the estates by province indicating costs,
area, number of plots allocated and the number of f irms operating. The
16 estates cover a total area of 786 acres consisting of nearly 3,000 plots.
Total development costs have amounted to Rs 28.8 million or about US$3,660 per
acre. A major shortcoming has been the slow occupaLtion of the plots--50%
allocated to 540 firms. Most of the units located on the estates have been
the larger SSI units, and many instances of units writh fixed assets exceeding
Rs 3 million are evident.
2.29      Service Centers.  There are 19 service centers, with the larger
ones located in the Punjab province (Annex 7). A service center is a promo-
tional institution, equipped with plant facilities for the provision of
various technical services. In Pakistan, these services have consisted of
common facilities for various types of equipment which small units cannot
afford and/or do not need full-time in their own shops; skills training based
on formal training curricula; and advisory services through demonstration in
the center or consultancy in the SSI workshops. Aside from these promotional
activities, the centers have been engaged in commercial production in order
to cross-subsidize the promotional activities and extension services and to
provide practical, factory-type demonstration of all production aspects.
Some centers, such as the Pak-German Woodwork Center in Peshawar have pro-
vided extensive assistance to the private sector un1its. Other centers,
however, have had little interaction with industry, rather some degree of
compet.ion is evident.
2.30      Handicrafts and Carpet Centers.  This is the largest program of
the SICs in terms of the number of centers (147) and its reach into the rural
areas. About 70 handicraft centers are involved in embroidery, onyx ornaments,
mat-making, knitting, lacquer goods, handlooms, etc.  While the centers were
supposed to impart training, some have retained their graduates on a piece-
rate basis and have become production centers in part.
2.31      Handicraft Marketing.  The SICs market handicrafts through retail
outlets catering mainly to the domestic market and tourist trade. In FY79
the outlets sold over Rs 5 million worth of goods. In some instances, these
have become almost exclusive outlets for products of the SICs own training/
production centers instead of goods from the private sector. Private trading
houses still provide the main outlets for handicrafts from the private sector.
2.32      In summary, the SIC approach has concentrated on the construction
of physical facilities, while insufficient attention has been paid to develop-
ing effective technical assistance and extension service programs for the
private sector. As a result, the SICs have become pre-occupied with adminis-
tering industrial estates and common facilities rather than in providing a
1/   An IDA Credit o-f US$6.5 million in 1963 assisted the creation of several
of the estates.



- 12 -
planned and realistic extension-cum-training program for small entrepreneurs.
Since there has been only limited interaction with the private sector in some
of the centers, the tendency has been for the facilities to function as
commercial rather than promotional projects. The underlying shortcoming has
been a lack of clear definition of target groups and their real technical
assistance needs. The technical assistance components under the proposed
credit have been designed to avoid these problems (Chapter 4).
III. PROBLEMS AND PROSPECTS OF KEY SMALL-SCALE SECTORS
A.   The UNIDO Study
3.01      Various attempts have been made to obtain information on Pakistan's
SSI sector but none have attempted to examine in detail the problems and
prospects of specific subsectors and for SSI as a whole. 1/ Consequently,
an in-depth survey was carried out in 1978-79 by the SICs and IACP, which was
financed by UNIDO and the Ministry of Industries, and designed jointly with
the World Bank (para 1.02). The Phase I survey covered about 20% of the units
in the 5 subsectors discussed below.
3.02      General Characteristics of SSIs.  The survey found that most of the
SSI units were small; 80% of them employed less than 10 people and average
investment was Rs 140,000 per firm. They were more labor intensive and more
efficient users of capital than large scale units; investment cost was US$1,600
per job, compared with US$21,000 per job for a sample of large scale private
sector projects financed by PICIC during the last 2 years. The average
capital-output ratio of SSIs was 0.61 compared to between 1.0 and 1.5 for
large-scale units. 2/ The low use of capital by SSIs is partly explained by
the simple technology used, it is also, however, due to their poor access to
credit markets, lack of knowhow in dealing with financial institutions and
the cost for banks in appraising large numbers of small borrowers. 3/ As an
illustration, about 60% of the units had no bank accounts, ranging from
40% in Punjab to 99% in Baluchistan. A similar pattern emerged regarding
the number of approaches made by SSI units to institutions for financial
assistance--over 80% of the SSI units had never made an approach.
3.03      Almost all the SSI units said that they had received minimal tech-
nical assistance from the existing agencies, even though many of them were
prepared to pay for this service.  Most SSI units faced problems with raw
1/   A detailed census was carried out in 1975/76 by PSIC; of 39,000 units
operating in cities and towns in the Punjab, 33,000 were SSI units and
about 6,000 were cottage units. The census did not cover towns with
less than 20,000 persons, where cottage units dominated.
2/   See Annex 3~, -iakile 'I, -4iWn is in teza  tvers.
3/   About 21% of the capital costs in the surveyed subsectors was financed
by borrowings from financial institutions; the remainder was financed
largely by the entrepreneurs own resources (some of which might have
been borrowed from non-institutional sources).



- 13 -
materials cost and availability. The SSIs had a poor market image and inform-
ation from buyer's associations corroborated this view; finishing of products
was often poor and few attempts had been made at market promotion and advertis-
ing (possibly due to the costs involved). Trade associations had occasionally
organized group promotional activities, although these had failed to solicit
sufficient buyer or seller interest.
B.   Textiles/Garments
3.04      The Subsector.  Cotton textiles are one of Pakistan's most important
industries with facilities for spinning, weaving and finishing fabrics, and
for manufacturing a variety of other consumer products. Capacity, however,
is concentrated in relatively low value-added spinning and weaving since yarn
and grey cloth are major exports. The industry has been functioning poorly
since the early 1970s due to depressed international demand for textiles, the
lack of competitiveness of Pakistani textiles in world markets, and Government
policy during the previous regimes. 1/ However, in recent years, international
demand for textiles has increased and exports have risen; GOP has also intro-
duced a number of incentives and rebates for the industry. As a result, yarn
production increased by 5.4% in FY78 and 9.4% in FY79. However, the weaving
sector continued its decline with production falling by 11.7% in FY79 in spite
of the fact that incentives have been biased towards cloth production. The
GOP has also realized the importance of encouraging units to move into the
higher value-added activities such as garment production, and incentives have
been provided, e.g., duty free imports of machinery used in the manufacture
of garments and other made-ups.
3.05      The SSI Group. 2/  There are about 15,000 small units involved in
weaving, producing about 60% of total cloth output and sold mainly in the
domestic market. The importance of SSIs in weaving arose partly because in
the past units consisting of less than four power looms were exempt from
payment of excise duty; this exemption was removed in 1978. SSIs also have
a significant representation in the end-products section of the industry, i.e.
towels, garments, hosiery goods and canvas, and here their export contribution
is more substantial. Exports of these items for large and small units during
the last four years are given below:
(Rs million)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
Hosiery Goods              84       117         96        122
Towels                    181       141        128        210
Canvas and Tents          235       237        264        247
Ready made Garments       193       238        290        397
693       733        778-       970
I/   See Appraisal Report for Credit 1019-PAK (Report No. 2834a dated
April 22, 1980).
2/   The "SSI group" refers to small units operating in the particular su6-
sector, e.g., small hosiery units in the textile sector.



- 14 -
Exports of ready-made garments increased consistently while those of hosiery
goods and towels showed a significant recovery in 1978/79 after two years of
decline. Exports of canvas and tents stagnated.
3.06      The survey has estimated that there were 2,325 units producing cotton
end-products. Of these, 45% were in the Punjab, 41% in Sind and 14% in NWFP.
Most of these units were new, having been set up in the last 10 years when
large scale finishing units were performing poorly, indicating the ability of
SSI to fill a gap in demand. Average investment per firm was about Rs 252,000
and about 40% of this was for plant and machinery. Of the total investment,
only 54% was financed by the owners' own resources, which was the lowest pro-
portion among the subsectors surveyed. The financial institutions played
a larger part in this sector, financing 25% of total investment with 21%
financed by non-institutional sources. The machinery was mostly manufactured
in Pakistan but the more sophisticated machines were imported. Total employ-
ment in the subsector was estimated at 23,700. The investment cost per job
was Rs 25,000 which makes it the most capital-intensive of the five subsectors
surveyed. Capital/output ratio was 0.65. The structure of the industry
varies between the provinces with units in Sind being more capital-intensive
and export-oriented than units in the other provinces.
3.07      Problems and Prospects.  The main problems facing SSI in the pro-
duction of textile end-products are poor finishing, difficulty in obtaining
appropriate yarns and fabrics, and poor marketing. GOP does allow duty free
import of raw materials for export industries under the bonded warehouse
schemes or a refund of duties on shipment of exports. However, most SSIs
cannot take advantage of these schemes as they do not have bonded warehouse
facilities and often are reluctant to apply for rebates, being inhibited by
formalistic procedures. Industry sources indicate that the prospects for
the subsector seem good, but improvements in quality are essential if sales,
especially exports, are to grow satisfactorily. In some cases, improved
quality might require newer machinery and although GOP has given incentives
for import of new machinery by removing duties, the poor access to credit
faced by SSIs makes it difficult for them to avail themselves of these
incentives. In other cases, there is a clear need for increased training
of technical staff, improved product design and more systematic production
methods. Increased training facilities and programs at the subsector level
are being provided by GOP which could also benefit SSI units. 1/
C.   Surgical Goods
3.08      The Subsector.  Pakistan produces various surgical instruments
such as knives, scissors and forceps. All the units in the industry are
located in Sialkot, Punjab, where high quality surgical goods began to be
produced during pre-independence times. The industry exports almost 90% of
its production to the EEC countries and the USA. Exports during the last
four years are given below:
1/   Credit 1019-PAK approved in May 1980, allocated US$ 3 million to GOP's
textile training program.



- 15 -
(Rs million)
1975/76      1976/77     1977/78      1978/79
Exports of
surgical goods    131          134          161          211
3.09      SSI Group.  The surgical goods industry consists of 450 small
units and 15 medium-sized firms. About 45% of the small units had more than
10 employees and average employment per unit was 24 workers (compared to 9
for all 5 subsectors). The average investment per firm was Rs 304,000, the
highest of the 5 subsectors; of this, 37% was investment in plant and machin-
ery. Of the total investment, 74% was financed by the owners' resources
and 80% of the remainder was borrowed from financial institutions, principally
commercial banks. Machinery and equipment were often quite old. The more
common machines like lathes, electric motors and grinders were domestically
produced while the more sophisticated machines used for finishing were
imported. The investment cost per job was Rs 13,000 and the capital/output
ratio was 0.64.
3.10      Problems and Prospects.  The main problems involve fluctuations in
prices of raw materials (stainless steel and brass), quality control and an
inability to develop product-identity in export markets. A lack of standard-
ization has made surgical instrument importers abroad hesitant to buy directly
from Pakistani producers. Hence, some of the larger manufacturing firms in
the developed countries market Pakistani surgical instruments under their own
brand names, taking a significant part of the mark-up. In the past four years,
exports have grown at an average rate of 17% and provisional figures for FY80
support this trend. Future prospects thus seem good. Considering that
Pakistan supplies only about 1% of imports by developed countries and given
Pakistan's comparative advantage in this industry, there is considerable scope
to expand its market share. However, improvements in quality control, stan-
dardization, and marketing channels are essential if export growth is to be
maintained. The export promotion measures included in the project (para
4.30) would address these problems.
D.   Leather Goods
3.11      The Subsector.  Pakistan produces substantial quantities of leather
and leather goods for both domestic use and exports. The footwear industry
is the largest domestic user of leather, taking up about 85% of domestic sales
of finished leather; footwear made of leather accounts for 33% of domestic
production of all types of footwear, the remainder being footwear made from
canvas and plastic. Other domestic users of leather are producers of leather
garments, sports goods and a number of other end-products, like travel goods,
bags, purses and saddles. The local tanners suppLy almost all the domestic
requirement of the leather finishing and leather goods units. The 2 main
items exported are footwear and gloves each showing good growth performance
as follows:
(Rs Million)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79
ExportS of Footwear (leather)    22           17          12         27
Exports of Gloves                  39         59          96       114



- 16 -
3.12      Less than half the production of leather is consumed domestically,
with the remainder exported. In 1978/79 exports of leather were valued at
Rs 1.25 billion, mostly in semi-finished forms (wet-blue and crust). To
raise the value-added, GOP is now encouraging the setting up of finishing
plants to process leather further prior to export. At the same time, it is
providing incentives for the production of leather goods for export.
3.13      SSI Group.  SSI units account for more than 50% of the leather
goods industry's capacity. They supply most of the domestic demand in the
less sophisticated end of the footwear market and they dominate in production
of many of the other leather products, except for gloves which are mainly
produced by large firms. The Survey estimated that there were 4,170 small
units producing leather goods of various kinds. It was the largest of the
subsectors surveyed with 25,000 employees; 47% of the units were in Sind,
30% in NWFP, 15% in the Punjab and 8% in Baluchistan. Most of these firms
are fairly new having started production in the last five years. The units
in this subsector were the smallest among the five surveyed; average investment
per firm was only Rs 37,000 and average employment per unit was 6 workers.
About 80% of total investment was financed by the entrepreneur himself and the
remainder by trade credits, or borrowings from friends and relatives. Sales
from the SSI units were mostly to the domestic market and only 6% (by value)
of total sales went to foreign markets. Footwear made up above 75-80% of
domestic sales, the remainder being travel goods and wearing apparel. The
subsector had a capital/output ratio of 0.32 and a capital/labor ratio of
Rs 5,800, the lowest among all five subsectors surveyed. Value-added was 48%
of the value of production.
3.14      Problems and Prospects.  The main problems facing the small scale
leather industry are the poor quality and fluctuating prices of raw materials,
the low level of mechanization which results in poor quality and range of
goods, lack of marketing know-how and inability to keep up with fashions due
to design limitations. Also, the production processes used by the units are
generally poor which results in high wastage and rejection rates. Although
the domestic tanning industry has shown rapid progress in the last decade
better quality finished leather will be necessary to boost exports in the
coming years. Fluctuations in leather prices are inevitable, caused largely
by seasonal trends in the slaughter of livestock and the export of live
animals into neighboring countries. Raising the level of mechanization
(e.g., by introducing heavy duty sewing machines) would enable the relatively
skilled labor to produce better quality goods and would allow the SSI sub-
sector to take advantage of certain technical changes which could significantly
reduce costs, e.g. moulded soles for footwear. Design improvements and better
cutting and stitching equipment are required, particularly for the fashion-
conscious leather goods market. The leather goods service center in Bannu
would provide such equipment on a common facility basis, and would provide
the necessary training (para 4.26). Of the subsectors surveyed, the leather
and leather goods subsector has shown the greatest growth in recent years
(only the carpet industry has exceeded this growth), and enjoys perhaps the
best prospects, particularly if quality is improved. Demand for travel goods,
ladies putses arin  vakag, wAallets , belts awxc watchX l     ands ,iAA  c
although imports of travel goods and ladies bags by workers returning from
the Middle East have diverted some of this demand.



- 17 -
E.   Sports Goods
3.15      The Subsector.  The sports goods industry produces hockey sticks,
cricket bats, rackets, balls etc., sufficient to meet all domestic require-
ments. It is also a significant supplier to the world market, exporting
about 75-80% of its output, mainly to EEC countries. Exports for the past
four years are given below:
(Rs Million)
1975/76     1976/77      1977/78      1978/79
183         185          196          215
3.16      SSI Group.  The Survey estimated that there were 390 SSI units
operating in the industry, all concentrated in Sialkot. Many units were quite
large (average of 18 workers with 37% employing more than 10). Subcontract-
ing arrangements were common particularly for stitching footballs. Average
investment per unit was Rs 219,000 and 71% of investment had been financed by
the owners' own resources, with the bulk of the remainder financed by lending
institutions. The average investment in plant and machinery was Rs 59,000.
The wood-based producers had little equipment except for a few units who had
heavy benders for hockey sticks. The leather-based producers items had sewing
and cutting machines. Although many of the units were fairly new, their
machinery was old. Investment cost per job was Rs 13,000. The capital/output
ratio (0.80) was higher than in other subsectors although still low when
compared to large-scale producers.
3.17      Problems and Prospects.  The major probLems are low mechanization
and an inability to compete in international markets due to changing technology.
The low level of mechanization 1/, passive marketing and increased competition
from some East Asian countries have resulted in Pakistani sports goods being
pushed to the low quality end of the market and to toy items which fetch lower
prices. Sales in the professional end of the market have become almost insig-
nificant. About 25% of the subsector's raw materials are imported, e.g.,
willow and cane for bats and rackets. Although tlhere were some problems with
price fluctuations of imported raw materials, most units had import licenses
and did not experience problems with quality and availability. However, import
duties of up to 80% were paid on cane used in producing handles for hockey
sticks, while a 15% rebate on the export value of the sticks might be processed
only after many months. GOP should eliminate existing bottlenecks in the
processing of these rebates. Increased demand for leisure goods in both
foreign and Pakistani markets will enable the industry to continue growing.
Assistance from EPB in product adaptation and intensive efforts in countries
that import lower quality goods would assist producers in the short-term.
However, efforts to reestablish a firmer position in the higher quality goods
1/   This explains why Pakistan has not been producing sports goods in modern
varieties (e.g., aluminum tennis rackets, arLd until recently few plastic
footballs).



- 18 -
will require more positive efforts on the part of both large and small scale
producers and possible assistance by GOP and PSIC. 1/
F.   Light Engineering
3.18      The Subsector.  Pakistan has a fairly well developed engineering
sector producing items ranging from machinery for sugar mills to ceiling fans.
Gujranwala in the Punjab province is the primary production area. The goods
produced are largely import-substituting although exports in some areas are
growing. Nationalization of the important engineering industries in 1972 caused
the private sector to lose a number of heavy engineering units, although light
engineering was less affected. In 1977, the Government revised its Industrial
Policy and Investment Schedule to make the production of many engineering goods
open to the private sector; since then there has been renewed interest in the
industry.
3.19      SSI Group.  Small-scale units produce a number of items in the light
engineering field, principally pumps, small electric motors, small diesel
engines, agricultural implements and components for these items. The survey
estimated that there were 2,455 SSI units. Of these, 41% were in the Punjab
(electric motors and pumps), 41% in NWFP and 18% in Sind (agricultural imple-
ments). Average investment per unit was Rs 166,000, of which about 40% was
in plant and equipment, 64% of investment was financed from the owners' own
resources; 17% by the financial institutions; and the rest from trade credits
and other borrowings. Average employment was eight workers and the proportion
of technical and skilled labor who had received formal training was the highest
among all the subsectors (9%). Sales are almost exclusively in the home market
and have been growing at an annual rate of around 16%, increased sales largely
being in agricultural implements and diesel engine components. Investment
costs per job were Rs 23,000, which was high compared to other subsectors but
reasonable considering the type of goods produced. The capital output ratio
was 0.73 which indicated efficient use of capital.
3.20      Problems and Prospects.  The main problems involve poor equipment,
increasing shortages of skilled labor, and raw materials supply. The produc-
tion of diesel engines and electric motors have a high content of imported
raw materials and these were usually purchased from wholesalers or retailers
rather than being directly imported. Few units had import licenses, and they
reported problems of raw material availability, quality specifications and
fluctuating prices; similar problems also existed with domestic raw materials;
although this subsector has the highest proportion of trained staff, its
growth is nevertheless constrained by lack of technical know-how. The machin-
ery installed was generally old, although functioning adequately in most cases.
Overall, the industry has excellent prospects for growth, especially in
1/   A sports goods service center in Sialkot (located on one of the IDA-
financed industrial estates) was instrumental in restoring Pakistan's
exports to the Rs 180 million level in the mid-seventies (exports had
fallen to Rs 40 million at the end of the sixties). However, its equip-
ment became outaated and demand ior use ot the common tacili-ti-es on the
part of SSI units fell off. The Punjab Government is considering reor-
ganizing this center, possibly with bilateral assistance and Government
resources.



- 19 -
agricultural implements and pumps. As regards the production of diesel
engines and electric motors, prospects are also good considering GOP's exten-
sive electrification and irrigation schemes. However, a ready supply of
skilled labor will need to be trained in order to meet the increased demand.
G.   Conclusions
3.21      The UNIDO survey of SSI units has shown a number of common problems
regarding raw materials, low levels of mechanization, and poor marketing tech-
niques. Solutions to some of these problems would require measures to be
taken by GOP, e.g., improvements to the processing of import duties and export
rebates. Simplification and liberalization of the tariff system is part of
the program agreed between GOP and the DIF under the EFF Facility. Other
measures are already being taken by the financial intermediaries and SICs.
However, additional common facilities and equipment that might be uneconomic
for a single unit to acquire appear to be needed in some subsectors. Such
service centers can only be undertaken after a detailed appraisal is made,
including identification of a geographically concentrated target group and its
machinery, equipment and training needs. For leather goods and woodworking/
furniture, these appraisals were completed by IDA as separate tasks from the
UNJDO study. 1/
3.22      In summary, the UNIDO survey confirmed the view that the major
constraints SSIs faced were access to credit--both for fixed investment and
working capital--lack of equipment and selected skills, and difficulties in
promoting and marketing their products. Shortages of fixed investment funds
resulted either in many units not purchasing essential equipment items, which
resulted in the production of lesser quality items, or in borrowing from
informal sources at high interest rates and on short maturities which in turn
caused cash flow problems. Shortages of working capital resulted in low stocks
of raw materials and left many of them vulnerable to fluctuations in the prices
of raw materials. Despite these problems, SSI have shown promising rates of
growth; the analyses of the economic aspects indicate their significant contri-
bution to the economy. Prospects for future expansion are good, particularly if
credit on appropriate terms is made available.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives, Scope and Institutional Arrangements
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to encourage the development of SSI units that are export-
oriented or are efficient in import-substitution by pro-
viding funds for term lending through commercial banks;
1/   See Appraisal Reports for the Gujrat Woodworking Service Center and
the Bannu Leather Goods Service Center in the P'roject File (Annex 15).
The Woodworking center was included at GOP's request because of the
critical need for common facilities (particularly seasoning of timber)
and for training of Gujrati furniture producers. The successful exper-
ienea of a similar center in Peshawar provided a benchmark.



- 20 -
(b)  to assist in orienting commercial banks towards a longer
term project appraisal approach in their SSI lending;
(c)  to assist two SICs in providing selected technical
assistance, extension services and skills training in
woodworking and leather goods;
(d)  to expand the export promotion of SSI products; and
(e)  to initiate project development exercises in Baluchistan.
The proposed project would help to streamline the roles of the various agencies
involved in SSI development. Through its proposed institutional arrangements
for credit and for subsector-specific technical assistance, it would encourage
the SICs to concentrate on technical assistance tasks, instead of on credit-
related tasks, and it would assign clear responsibility to commercial banks for
approval and collection of loans to SSI units.
4.02      The project would be national in scope and would consist of two
main parts, each with its components:
A.   Credit Components
(i)  A line of credit to be onlent to IDBP for refi-
nancing of SSI project lending by five commercial
banks according to eligibility criteria and pro-
cedures agreed between IDA, GOP, IDBP and the
commercial banks;
(ii) Training of commercial bank officers in appraisal
methodology of SSI fixed investment projects; and
(iii)  Monitoring and ex-post evaluation systems of the
subprojects financed under the credit component.
B.   Technical Assistance Components
(i)  Construction and equipping of a service center
for use by members of the Gujrat Furniture Makers
Association (GFMA) to assist the wood-working
industry improve its technology and productivity;
(ii) Establishment of a service center in Bannu under
SIDB to assist the Bannu Leather and Shoe Manufac-
turers Association (BLSMA) members convert from
footwear to leather goods manufacture;
(iii)  Export promotion of selected handicrafts by SSIC
and manufactured products by EPB with involvement
of 9ritvate ey.1jwart aoa!xwt\s yj eats of g
cycjle product adaptation exercises;



- 21 -
(iv) Assistance to SIW of Baluchistan in practical project
identification and preparation of immediate oppor-
tunities in the province;
(v) Creation of a fund within IDBP to finance the prepara-
tion of subsector studies in support of the subsector
approach to project promotion, appraisal, lending and
extension services, as well as project preparation
for subloans under the credit component; and
(vi) Monitoring and ex-post evaluation systems for the
two service centers financed under the credit.
4.03      Institutional Arrangements.  Under the credit component, respon-
sibility for subproject appraisal, relending, supervision and collections
would lie with the five commercial banks included in the project. The SSI
lending activities of the commercial banks would be expanded, particularly
in term loans. IDBP would be responsible for refinance, monitoring and review
of the credit component, and for administering the subsector and project
preparation study fund. The SICs would concentrate on promotion, extension
services and project preparation, but would not be involved in subproject
appraisals under the credit component. In addition, PSIC and SIDB/NWFP would
be responsible for setting up organizations to implemLent the service centers.
SSIC, EPB and SIW would be responsible for their respective components of the
project.
B.   Project Costs and Financing Plan
4.04      The total cost of the project is estimated to be about US$60 million 1/
of which IDA would finance SDR 23.6 million (US$30 mi.llion equivalent) or
about 50%. For the credit component, IDA financing would cover 80% of subloan
amounts and the commercial banks would provide the other 20%; sponsors would
contribute on the average 40% of subproiect costs. 2X/ Thus, IDA's share in
financing a given subproject would be about 48%. The 52% domestic resource
mobilization is consistent with country-related objectives. Under the US$4
million technical assistance and extension services components, IDA financing
would cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs of imported machinery and
equipment and 100% of the costs of advisors (expatriate or local), training,
and foreign exchange costs of marketing events related to export promotion.
The total cost of advisors is US$2.34 mill4on of which US$1.5 million is
expected to be for 150 man-months of expatriate advisors at US$10,000 per
man-month and US$0.84 million for 280 man-months of local advisors at US$3,000
per man-month with an overall average man-month rate of US$5,440. GOP's
contribution of US$0.96 million would cover land, on-site infrastructure and
buildings for the service centers; and salaries for counterpart staff on all
components of the project. The components, cost estimates and sources of
finance are summarized as follows:
1/   Inclusive of duties and taxes on machinery for subprojects under the
credit component, and exclusive of duties and taxes on machinery and
equipment for the service centers estimated at US$160,000 equivalent.
2/   Assuming an average debt-equity ratio of 60:40 for the subloans under
the credit. Figures from the Phase I survey show debt-equity ratios
of 40:60 for the SSI sector with a range of 46:54 to 20:80 (Chapter 3).



- 22 -
Financing
IDA      by Commer-   Government   Sponsors
Financing  cial Banks  Contribution   Equity   Total
--------------------(US$ millions)------------------
A. Credit Component
(i) Subloans             26.00 /a      6.50                     21.50    54.00
(ii) Training of
Commercial Banks    0.15          -             -            -        0.15
B. Technical Assistance
Component
(iii) a. Gujrat Service
Center          1.23          -           0.30          0.20     1.73
b. Bannu Service
Center           1.02         -           0.45           -       1.47
(iv) SSIC Handicrafts
Export Promotion   0.50          -           0.10          0.05      0.65
(v) EPB's Export
Promotion of
Selected
Manufactures         0.50          -          0.10          0.05      0.65
(vi) Subsector Studies    0.50           -           -             -        0.50
(vii) Baluchistan
Project Development 0.10          -           0.01           -        0.11
TOTAL             30.00 /a     6.50         0.96         21.80    59.26
/a   of which US$11.0 million might be for foreign exchange, $15 million for
local costs (buildings and machinery, and permanent working capital).
The details underlying the above table are shown in Annex 8.
C.  Credit Component:  IDBP Refinance and Subproject Eligibility Criteria
4.05      IDBP Refinance.  In order to provide assistance in orienting the
commercial banks' appraisals towards fixed investment criteria and to provide
consistency in project appraisal standards and procedures, IDBP will assume
the function of a refinance/monitoring agency under the project. 1/ IDBP
itself has substantial experience in SSI lending but lacks the branch network
to reach the smaller clients beyond the major urban areas. Moreover, its
current financial position forces it to relegate as a lower priority the very
small projects which tend to be riskier and involve higher processing costs
than medium-sized projects. Thus, IDBP prefers to undertake a refinance/moni-
toring role rather than a direct financing role under the credit. In this way,
1/   In SSI projects in other countries, refinance facilites have utilized
central banks or development banks to coordinate/review the activities
of commercial banks under the project. SBP, however, tends to confine
itself to macro-economic (non-9roject) activities; its only involvement
in thze SS1 fiela is through the setting and on,toming cA aggtegalte
lending targets and through the Credit Guarantee Scheme.



- 23 -
IDBP would provide valuable assistance to the commercial banks in project
appraisal standards and to IDA in its quality control and review of subproj-
ects. IDA's supervision requirements would thereby be reduced compared to a
situation of a direct relationship with five banks. The refinance/monitoring
functions are discussed in para 5.07.
4.06      Eligibility Criteria.  In line with the objectives of the credit to
expand output and employment, criteria directly related to production-oriented
loans have been adopted for the commercial banks' subproject financing, namely:
(a) units should have fixed assets not exceeding Rs 3 million 1/;
(b) subloans should be for setting up new units or expanding
existing ones in the industrial sector, including indus-
trial services;
(c) working capital financing would only be allowed when
attached to a fixed investment loan, and only for the
permanent working capital portion of a given subproject,
such as raw materials and spare parts;
(d) a minimum of 30% of subproject costs should be provided
by the sponsor in the form of equity;
(e)  subprojects should be labor-intensive with fixed costs
per job (excluding land) generally not exceeding Rs 60,000
equivalent 2/; and
(f) at least 50% of the overall credit should be allocated
to subloans of less than Rs 800,000.
Although the original focus of the project design and preparation was on the
five subsectors studied by UNIDO, eligibility for credit purposes would not be
confined to these product groups. Other subsectors that appear to warrant
support are agro-industries, small brickmaking units, woodworking/furniture
units, and carpet producers. For subprojects in subsectors studied, the
appraisal reports would be simplified; for subprojects in subsectors for which
studies are not avaiLlable, the appraisal reports would be more detailed (para
5,18). Where possible, the commercial banks would calculate internal financial
and economic rates of returns, particularly for new companies. For small pro-
jects the banks might only be able to calculate accounting rates of return, but
would still need to establish the economic merit of the proposal subproject
according to the profiles and the above eligibility criteria.
1/   After the loan and excluding land and buildings, which conforms to
the SBP definition (para 2.14).
2/   Subprojects with fixed costs per job (excluding land) that exceed
Rs 60,000 could be financed only if a special case of its economic merit
is made, e.g., export-oriented, efficient saver of foreign exchange
in which case a domestic resource cost (DRC) ratio would be calculated.
Subprojects which depend on local raw materials for a majority of their
reguirements would also receive special consicleration.



- 24 -
4.07      IDBP.  IDA has been actively involved with IDBP since the late six-
ties. In February 1970, IDA approved a general line of credit of US$20 mil-
lion to be onlent by IDBP to industrial sub-projects, which was utilized
slowly due to severe disruption caused by events in Bangladesh. IDBP had
maintained its head office and records in Dacca, many of which were lost.
After several years of rehabilitation in Karachi and amendment of the IDA
Credit documents to incorporate a Managed Fund Agreement (IDBP on behalf of
GOP), the credit was utilized and closed in February 1978. A Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report was issued on April 12, 1980. Today, IDBP is an expe-
rienced development bank with a staff of 653, of which 304 are professionals.
Its appraisal standards are sound and with the creation of a new department
(para 5.14) it is well equipped to carry out the review and refinance func-
tions. IDBP is also implementing a US$5 million construction component of
the Third Highways Credit. A new general line of credit to IDBP is also in
preparation.
Participating Commercial Banks
4.08      The Pakistani commercial banking system is highly developed consist-
ing of five indigenous banks and 14 foreign banks. The indigenous banks
account for about 95% of deposits; the foreign banks concentrate on specialized
activities, usually involving overseas transactions. Pursuant to the Nation-
alization of Banks Act of January 1974, the indigenous banks were formed as
follows:
-    National Bank of Pakistan (NBP) merged with Bank of Bahawalpur
Limited;
-    Habib Bank Limited (HBL) merged with Standard Bank Limited;
-    United Bank Limited (UBL) merged with Commerce Bank Limited;
-    Muslim Commercial Bank Limited (MCB) merged with Premier Bank
Limited;
-    Allied Bank Limited (ABL) formed from a merger of Australasia
Bank, Pakistan Bank and Lahore Commercial Bank Limited.
The five banks are each organized in a similar manner under directives and
guidelines set by the Ministry of Finance and PBC (para 2.13). In each case,
a five-man Executive Board plus two GOP appointees comprise the Board of
Directors headed by the President of the bank. 1/ The President and the Senior
Executive Vice Presidents tend to be rotated every few years from bank to bank
which increases the comparative experience but homogenizes the policies,
procedures and character of the banks. Since nationalization, the banks have
maintained their professional character and competitive drive, although the
management rotational policy and SBP's standardized policies and procedures
have contributed to the homogeneous image of the banks. The structures of the
banks are similar, in that all have circle executives who manage the various
divisions, departments and branches. The organizational structure of MCB is
shown in Chart 2 as an illustration. Each bank has established a small loans
1/   In a March 1980 amendment to the Nationalization of Banks Act (1974), GOP
stipulated that the two appointees would be a Joint Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance and a representative of PBC.



- 25 -
department which handles head office processing of small loans for commerce,
industry, and, in the smaller banks, housing and agriculture loans.  Under
directives from SBP, the banks have increased rapidly their branches in small
towms and rural areas. As of the end of 1979, the five banks combined had
about 7,000 branches reaching all areas of the country. As shown in Annex 4,
Table 1, the volume of bank lending to small business and industry is cur-
rently about Rs 1 billion p.a. on a net increase to outstandings basis. 1/
National Bank of Pakistan (NBP)
4.09      NBP is one of the three large commercial banks.  It was estab-
lished in 1949 with 25% GOP equity participation, but now is 100% owned by
GOP, as are the other banks. As of December 31, 1979, NBP had 1,646 branches,
including several in the United Kingdom, Saudi Arabia, Hong Kong, West Germany
and the U.S. At that time, it had a staff of 22,125, of whom 7,572 were
officers.
4.10      Financial Position and Performance.  Indicators of NBP's financial
position and performance in the past three years are given below:
Profit as % of Advances/
Total   Net Profit                                 Total   Deposits
Equity /a  Assets  Before Tax  Deposits  Advances  Equity  Assets           %
-----------------(Rs millions )-------_______
FY77    222.5   21,985    118.7         14,209    8,446       53      0.5        59
FY78    240.4   24,878       32.5       15,779    8,852       14      0.1        56
FY79    268.4   28,507    107.2         18,601    9,428       40      0.4        61
7-a  Paid-up capital plus reserves.
Equity, total assets, deposits and advances all increased during the three
years by about 15% p.a. Net profits showed a severe decrease from FY77 to
FY78 due to adjustments in accounting treatment and penalties paid to SBP, 2/
but recovered to normal levels in FY79.  NBP enjoyed high returns from equity
except for FY78, but its return from total assets was low, although not
unusual for a commercial bank, probably as a result of credit ceilings and
controlled interest rates.
4.11      SSI Loans.  At the Karachi Head Office, the Agriculture and Small
Loans Department of the General Credit Wing deals with the larger loans to
SSI units. Smaller SSI loans that fall within the discretionary power of the
branches or zonal or principal offices are sanctioned there, and no detailed
information is submitted to Head Office regarding these loans. The following
factors are taken into account when approving a SSI loan request: demand for
1/   On a sanction basis, this figure would be considerably higher, since
many of the loans involve rollover of working capital.
2/   In 1978, NBP paid Rs 64 million to SBP as penaLties for exceeding its
credit ceilings,



- 26 -
and marketability of the products, raw materials supply, profit earning capa-
city of the project, and most importantly business acumen, ability and credit-
worthiness of the borrower. Debt/equity ratios would vary from 60:40 to 50:50
depending on the collateral given. An analysis of loans sanctioned for small
business and industry for 1978/79 showed that out of Rs 347.2 million sanc-
tioned for small business and industry, only 3% (by amount) were under the SBP
Small Loans Scheme and less than 1% were under the SIC Schemes; the remainder
were out of NBP's general lending operations and were mainly working capital
loans. The average loan size under the SBP Scheme was Rs 0.63 million. Con-
sidering only loans granted under the SBP and SIC schemes, 66% of the total
loan amounts in FY77 to FY79 were for working capital. NBP's average maturity
for SSI loans was about two years. Finally, NBP's arrears on loans under the
SIC schemes in FY79 represented 24.7% of its portfolio. Collections of wor-
king capital repayments were expectedly much higher.
Habib Bank Limited (HBL)
4.12      As one of the original privately-owned banks, Habib Bank has
grown the most rapidly of the five indigenous banks. As of December 31,
1980, HBL had 1,888 branches, including 76 overseas branches, and a staff
of 21,800. Indicators of its performance are as follows:
Profit as % of Advances/
Total   Net Profit                                Total   Deposits
Equity  Assets  Before Tax  Deposits  Advances  Equity  Assets          %
----------(Rs millions)----------------
FY77  382.7  25,285      318.5      16,423    10,115      83     1.3         62
FY78  437.6  30,545      320.7      20,124    10,826      73     1.1         54
FY79  502.0  34,968      348.7      23,169    13,478      70     1.0         58
In absolute terms, Habib enjoys the greatest profitability.  In 1979, its
deposits grew by 15% over the 1978 level. The low advances/deposits ratio
(54%-62%) evidences the constraining impact of SBP's credit ceilings on HBL's
lending operations, as is evident in the other banks.
4.13      SSI Loans.  Most of HBL's SSI lending has been for working capital.
The fixed investment loans for small industries have encompassed towel manu-
facturers, carpet producers, cold storage units, printing firms, food process-
ing firms, and rice husking units. Maturities have been for eight years in a
few cases, but the majority of loans were for two years or less. Collection
performance for loans under the SIC schemes has been low as shown in Annex 4,
Table 2. Of the portfolio of Rs 8.4 million sanctioned under the SIC schemes,
only Rs 0.4 million or about 5% has been recovered; however, some of these
loans have not yet fallen due or in other cases have been rescheduled. About
30% of this portfolio can be classified as in arrears (similar to NBP's level).
Tznv>teA Sank T_-Lnite_d (UPL)
4.14      As the third large bank, United has also shown rapid growth over the
last few years. As of December 31, 1979, UBL had a staff of 19,270 and 1,719
branches. Indicators of UBL's performance are as follows:



- 27 -
Profit as % of Advances/
Total   Net Profit                                 Total   Deposits
Equity  Assets  Before Tax  Deposits  Advances  Equity  Assets           %
_________________ Rs millions)----------------
FY77  184.7  19,752       125.2     14,305      8,612      68      0.6       60
FY78  222.9  24,417       127.7     17,280    10,244       57      0.5       59
FY79  248.0  28,081       130.8     20,008    12,088       53      0.5       60
UBL's deposits, assets and advances all grew by about 15%-18% p.a.  The advances/
deposits ratio was constant at about 60% during the tharee years. UBL and Habib
display the most efficient management styles and procedures; both banks also
have the strongest small loans cells currently. At its head office, UBL has
an executive vice-president and 12 officers handling small loans for industry
and business. In addition, officers at the zonal and branch levels handle the
initial processing of SSI loans. Regional heads, of whom UBL has 26, are
empowered to approve loans up to Rs 100,000.
MusLim Commercial Bank (MCB)
4.15      As one of the oldest of the originally private banks, MCB is the
fourth largest in terms of deposits, staff and branches.  As of the end of
1979, MCB had 1,334 branches in Pakistan and 25 branches in the United
Kingdom. At that time, it had 10,480 staff. MCB's lending to SSI and small
business has been around Rs 120 million p.a. in recent years. Indicators of
MCB's performance are given below.
Profit as % of   Advances/
Total   Net Profit                                  Total   Deposits
Equity  Assets  Before Tax  Deposits  Advances  Equity   Assets          %
---------------(Rs millions)-----------------
FY77  71.7    8,863       32.7       5,417      3,811       46       0.4       70
FY78  80.4   11,098       35.6       6,647      4,621       44       0.3       69
FY79  99.3   14,564       75.4       9,053      5,593       76       0.5      62
As can be seen from the above figures, MCB showed impressive growth in pro-
fitability in 1979 (doubled from 1978) with a 76% return on equity. Deposits
grew by 36% over 1978 (the fastest of the banks).
4.16      SSI Loans.  Annex 4, Table 3 shows the breakdown of MCB's lending
by province and according to whether the small loans were for business or
industry. Net outstandings were Rs 136 million, 55% of which were in industry.
Loans to units in the Punjab accounted for 64% (by amount) of the industry
category, Sind for 32% and NWFP for 4%. Annex 4, Table 4 shows the break-up
of MCB's loans (by province) according to fixed investment vs. working capital,
maturities, and subsector distribution, as of December 31, 1979. In Punjab,
textile units were the largest group of borrowers (485 loans or 30% of the
total). Footwear, leather products and surgical instruments were minor
areas of activity for MCB, but light engineering was substantial. About 60%
of the loans carried maturities in excess of 2 years, and 20% exceeded 3 years.



- 28 -
Allied Bank Limited (ABL)
4.17      Allied Bank is the smallest of the banks but active in the SSI field
and progressive in style. As shown in Annex 4, Table 1, ABL's SSI lending
during FY77-79 has been around Rs 60 million per annum. Indicators of ABL's
financial position and performance are given below:
Profit as % of   Advances/
Total   Net Profit                                  Total   Deposits
Equity  Assets  Before Tax  Deposits  Advances  Equity   Assets          %
(______  Rs millions)-----------------
FY77    33.3   3,957      20.8       2,665      1,923       62      0.5       72
FY78    39.6   4,857      21.0       3,396      2,478       53      0.4       73
FY79    50.2   5,304      22.5       3,925      2,570       45      0.4       65
ABL's equity, total assets, deposits and advances showed increases of about
20% over the three years. Net profit before tax remained steady. As with the
other banks, ABL's return on equity declined over the three years, reflecting
the increase in total equity through retained earnings.
4.18      SSI Loans.  Again, most of ABL's loans for small business and
industry were sanctioned under its general lending: in FY79, out of Rs 118.3
million loans sanctioned for small business and industry, only Rs 30.7 million,
or about 26%, were under the SBP Scheme, and Rs 23,130 under the SIC Scheme.
No breakdown between working capital and term loans is available but it
appears that most loans have been for working capital. Loans overdue for
small business and industry as a percentage of outstandings have averaged 18%
during 1977 to 1979; the figures for the SBP Scheme and the SIC Schemes are
21% and 29% respectively. The average maturity for small industrial loans was
about three years. In its loan approval process, ABL considers the borrower's
managerial capability, standing and creditworthiness to be of prime importance.
Securities required to be furnished by SSI sponsors are similar to those of
the other banks, being prescribed by SBP.
D.   Technical Assistance Components
1.   Gujrat Woodworking Service Center
4.19      Target Group.  Gujrat is one of the traditional centers for wooden
furniture manufacture in the country. GFMA estimates that there are about 500
small-scale units, mostly in the unorganized sector. Production capacity of
the whole industry is about 10,500 cubic meters of wood. Total sales in the
last year are estimated to be about Rs 95 million. Based on PSIC's survey of
157 units in April 1980, total fixed assets could be about Rs 45 million. The
industry provides employment to about 2,500 workers. GFMA, which was estab-
lished in 1929, presently has 200 members, of whom 50 are active and paying
annual dues. The association has expressed strong interest in the proposed
center and would like to be involved in its management, for which it is ready
to invest up to Rs 3 million.
4.20      Problems and Prospects.  The current problems of the industry stem
from a changing market situation and a diminishing supply of raw materials.



- 29 -
There appears to be a saturation at the higher end of the market to which
most of the units, especially those in the organized sector, are oriented. A
survey of prices in the main commercial centers reveals that the average price
of furniture for one household (two bedrooms, a dining room and a living room)
is about Rs 35,000 which indicates that the industry has been catering to the
upper end of the market. A growing middle market is emerging deriving its
purchasing power from worker remittances, part of which are usually spent on
housing and furnishings. This market requires cheaper furniture of good
quality. On the other hand, there is increasing cost pressure at the produc-
tion enid due mainly to the escalating cost of wood. GFMA members believe that
the industry is presently unable to move into the growing middle market due to
constraints in their traditional production methods, i.e., solid wood, custom-
made furniture. They see a need to shift to cheaper wood-based materials
(veneers) and into standardized furniture production in order to reduce costs
without sacrificing quality. Moreover, since the traditional technology is
highly dependent on the craftmanship of workers, the problem has been com-
pounded by the steady migration of skilled craftsmen to the Middle-East.
4.21      Functions of the Service Center.  The overall objective of the
proposed service center is to assist the industry in converting its present
technology to the manufacture of quality furniture utilizing more efficient
production methods, wood-based boards and standard designs. In order to
achieve this, the center would have the following sections and functions:
(a) an extension program which would provide planned in-plant advisory service
to individual units in order to guide them in improving technology and produc-
tion methods; (b) common facilities for equipment required for work on wood-
based boards and other materials which are not economic for each unit to
acquire, e.g., pressing veneers, lamination of chipboard, seasoning of timber,
etc; (c) training of skilled workers and machine operators on a two-year
curriculum program for new recruits and short-term evening sessions for
existing industry workers; (d) design of modern straight-line furniture
which could be produced on a standardized basis by t:he center and later on
by the industry; and (e) commercial production utilizing 60% of plant capa-
city in order to provide demonstration of efficient production methods,
laboratory conditions for the extension program and actual factory situation
for the training program. Income from the commercial production would be
used to cross-subsidia the promotional aspects.
4.22      Center Management and Costs.  The center (Chart 3) would be under
the administrative umbrella of PSIC but would operate independently with its
own Management Committee consisting of five members (three from PSIC and two
from GFMA). The center would have a competent project manager to be hired at
prevailing industry rates. The total cost of the center is US$1.73 million.
IDA would finance imported equipment worth US$0.66 million, 50 man-months of
advisors at US$0.50 million, and a monitoring and evaluation system estimated
at US$0.07 million, or a total of US$1.23 million. Annex 9 contains the
detailed list of machinery, equipment and tools with costs estimates. Annex
10 contains the operating policies including a Statement of the Powers and
Responsibilities of the Management Committee, staff for the center and job
descriptions for two consultant advisors.



- 30 -
2.   Bannu Leather Goods Service Center
4.23      Target Group.  In Bannu, there is a concentration of about 600
small units making leather sandals of traditional design (chappals) mainly for
Bannu and the surrounding districts of North and South Wazaristan. With an
average of five workers per unit, the industry produces approximately 900,000
pairs of sandals annually (about one pair per worker per day), using about 1.8
million sq ft of grain and split upper leather, as well as 675,000 kg light
vegetable tanned leather for soles, insoles and linings. Total assets of the
industry are estimated at about Rs 18 million, of which only about Rs 3
million are in fixed assets indicating very labor intensive methods. Labor
productivity is quite low at an average of one pair per worker per day, or
about one-tenth the productivity of a worker in the more organized sector.
4.24      Problems and Prospects.  The industry is experiencing a deteriorat-
ing position due to increasing competition from the mechanized sector, chang-
ing market trends (from traditional chappals to regular closed footwear) and
increasing leather input costs. While the mechanized sector has reduced the
impact of rising leather costs by increasing its efficiency, and using syn-
thetic components, the Bannu industry is facing a profit-margin squeeze, lower
production levels and, in some cases, business closures. The units have
formed BLSMA to seek common solutions. Presently, the Association, which is
composed of 500 members and well organized, is engaged in attempts at cost
reduction through joint raw material purchases and marketing. They realize,
however, that this is a short-term solution. In the long run, the industry
will give way to the mechanized sector. This situation is not unique to Bannu
or Pakistan, since it has taken place in developed and other developing
countries, where even in the semi-mechanized sector, the typical unit size is
200 pairs per day. In Pakistan there are already 20 footwear factories with
capacities ranging from 400-11,000 pairs per day. The Association's long-term
plan is to move its members into the manufacture of non-footwear leather goods
for which operations are inherently labor intensive. 1/
4.25      Functions of the Service Center.  Assistance to the target group
would be in the form of a multi-functional service center which would re-train
the labor force in appropriate skills; demonstrate the proper set-up and man-
agement of a leather goods unit; assist in setting-up individual workshops;
and provide the lead in developing a market strategy and an effective marketing
infrastructure, initially for the domestic urban market, and thereafter, for
exports.
4.26      Center Components and Costs.  The initial emphasis of the center
would be on training. Over the first four years it would have a capacity to
provide formal training for 60 workers according to industry needs as follows:
6 pattern-makers, 10 cutters, 25 sewers, 15 assemblers and 4 small assorted
goods makers. The major element would be subcontracting whereby the center
would develop the market and, concurrently, provide practical technical assist-
ance to the industry at the production end. Under this arrangement, the center
1/   Even in more developed countries, e.g., Italy, France and Spain, the
industry is still highly labor-intensive.



- 31 -
would concern itself with centralized functions such as securing orders accord-
ing to the center's and the industry's capabilities; procuring and selecting
raw materials according to market requirements; preparing initial proto-types
and patterns; undertaking preparatory processes to produce components ready
for assembly by industry; distributing work among the subcontractors with
in-plant technical guidance and training; and collecting products for further
finishing and marketing. The two other components would provide assistance to
operations of individual units outside the subcontracting scheme. These would
consist of the provision of common facilities in design preparation, pattern-
cutting and other facilities not available in individual units; and extension
services through regular plant visits by an extension unit to be run by the
center. The service center will cost a total US$1.47 million; of which US$0.32
million would be capital cost, US$0.31 million permanent working capital,
US$0.60 million for advisors, US$0.17 million for training and US$0.07 million
for monitoring and evaluation. IDA would finance the foreign exchange cost of
imported equipment and tools worth US$0.22 million, 60 man-months of advisors
at US$0.60 million, foreign training worth US$0.08 million, the foreign
exchange cost of permanent working capital (raw maLterials etc) worth US$0.05
million, and the monitoring and evaluation system estimated at US$0.07 million;
totalling US$1.02 million. Annex 11 contains the detailed list of machinery,
equipment and tools with cost estimates.
4.27      Center Management.  The center would be owned and administered by
SIDB with staffing as shown in Chart 4. It would:, however, be operationally
independent and managed by a competent project manager hired at prevailing
industry rates. As for the Gujrat Center, a Management Committee would be
established with five members, two of whom would be from BLSMA. Policies of
the center would be determined by the Committee with the advice of the Project
Advisor. Annex 12 contains a statement of the Powers and Responsibilities of
the Management Committee for the Bannu Center, including job descriptions for
up to four advisors.
3.   Export Promotion Components
4.28      EPB is the national agency responsible for export market development
and the management of the national Export Market Development Fund. Major
activities in 1979 consisted of participation in international trade fairs
and exhibitions, publicity programs, involvement in trade delegations and
sales missions, dissemination of trade information, and conduct of export
training activities. Results of these activities are difficult to measure
since they cut across sectors, products and markets. Since 1977, EPB has
been implementing the Integrated Export Promotion and Market Development
Project funded by ITC/UNCTAD 1/ and UNDP which has been extended for
another three years at an additional cost of US$1.36 million (of which US$1.13
million will be provided by UNDP). Emphasis has been on market development
surveys with insufficient attention paid to product adaptation. Export
1/   International Trade Center (Geneva).



- 32 -
promotion events, such as trade fairs and sales missions, have been mainly
conducted in the EEC countries. 1/
4.29      Proposed Assistance.  The export promotion component under this
project is intended to expand the ongoing activities of EPB, with some modifi-
cations. It would carry out practical product adaptation exercises for
selected handicrafts and manufactures following a typical business cycle. All
the interrelated activities from product selection, pinpointing of suppliers,
product designing/redesigning, up to buyer matching and the holding of specific
marketing events would be integrated for each product category in order to
link the production end with the marketing side. Marketing events could
include participation in single-country trade fairs, in multi-country, product-
specific fairs such as the Paris leather goods show or the Hanover woodworking
show, and sales exposure trips to Europe and USA for promising SSI producers.
Organization of workshops in Pakistan for American importers, following the EEC
model, would also provide a useful component to an integrated export promotion
program. Selection of product candidates has been made by EPB and SSIC based
on export performance in the past and potential in the future. The final
criterion for selection, however, will be the existence and willingness of
private sector groups and associations to be fully associated with the exercise
from beginning to end. EPB would implement the export promotion for manufac-
tured products and SSIC for handicrafts. Marketing and design consultants
would be hired to assist EPB and SSIC in executing this component.
4.30      Tentatively, the following products have been identified:  for SSIC,
onyx products, brass and copperware, embroidery and handloom goods, wood
craft and lacquer craft; for EPB, garments, surgical instruments, leather
goods, sports goods and processed food. Since the ITC project is already
tapping the EEC market, this project component would concentrate on the
North American market. The foreign exchange cost in terms of advisers and
marketing events is estimated at US$50,000 per product line, or US$500,000
for SSIC and US$500,000 for EPB. The counterpart agencies will provide funds
for counterpart staff, and other local costs estimated at US$200,000.
4.   Project Development for Baluchistan
4.31      Background.  Baluchistan is the least developed of the four provinces
of Pakistan, with little industrial activity. It accounts for only 0.4% of
the number of manufacturing units, 0.3% of employment and value-added and 0.1%
of fixed assets in the manufacturing sector. 2/ In terms of all SSI sectors,
Baluchistan's share was estimated to represent only 0.2% of employment and
output. 3/ If one were to exclude the Hub Chauksi area (which although
1/   The EEC has assisted EPB in organizing export promotion workshops in
Karachi, Lahore, Rawalpindi and Peshawar which have attracted good
interest on the part of European importers.
2/   Census of Manufacturing Industries 1975/76, Statistics Division, Ministry
of Finance, Plannting and Bevelopme-nt, Government of Pakistan.
3/   World Bank Report No. 887-PAK, The Role of Small-Scale Industries in
Pakistan's Development, dated October 6, 1975.



- 33 -
administratively is part of Baluchistan, is 40 km from Karachi and is there-
fore more economically linked to this region), Baluchistan's contribution
would become even more insignificant. Of the 500 mermbers of the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry, only about 25 are in industry while the rest are in
commercial/trading activities. The Baluchistan Department of Commerce and
Industry is actively trying to encourage the private sector to undertake
industrial investments, but its approach is too genearal. It has requested
IDA's assistance in project preparation in order to focus on specific
opportunities.
4.32      Proposed Assistance and Cost.  Under this component, it is proposed
that assistance be provided to the Department of Commerce and Industry for
practical project development work in specific subsectors. IDA would finance
a team of four subsector specialists who would identify five to ten projects
taking into account Baluchistan's resources; namely, animal skins, fruit and
vegetables, marble (onyx), and wool. The team would analyze the present
production and market structures and would develop the projects up to the
feasibility study stage, including formulation of financial plans. Small-
scale projects would be financed under the proposed credit; larger ones
would be actively promoted for financing by IDBP and PICIC. This component
could be carried out by a team of four over 3-1/2 months. The total cost
is estimated at US$110,000 of which IDA would finance the foreign exchange
cost of about US$100,000 (10 man-months at US$10,000 per man-month, including
travel and related expenses).
5.   Fund for Subsector Studies and Project Preparation
4.33      Purpose of Subsector Studies.  One of the objectives of the project
is to improve SSI lending and technical assistance operations by moving from
a general approach to a subsector-specific approach. In order to extend the
coverage of lending and technical services to other subsectors, funds would
be provided under the project for studies that would: (a) assess growth
potential and estimate investment and credit requirements for the subsector;
(b) analyze technological choices and re'ommend the most appropriate ones;
(c) identify geographic areas where subsectors should be promoted or expanded;
(d) identify technical assistance needs which would lead to the design and
execution of subsector improvement schemes; (e) develop subsector norms
to facilitate and improve the banks' project appraisals for lending, and
diagnostic and prescriptive systems in extension services; and (f) prepare
project profiles to be used in promoting the subsector.
4.34      Project Preparation.  It is expected that some prospective borrowers
under the credit component, especially the smaller ones, would be unable to
prepare their own project proposals in the manner required by the banks for
project appraisal purposes. For existing projects, a major problem area
would be reconstructing operating performance from inadequate records. For
new projects, problems would be in market research and analysis and prepara-
tion of financial projections. Part of this fund therefore would be used
to finance the costs of project preparation by the SICs. On request by a
borrower or a banker, SICs would undertake project preparation free of charge.
They would be compensated, however, by the Fund according to a fixed schedule
of fees and with proper screening and approval procedures.



- 34 -
4.35      Institutional Arrangements and Costs.  The subsector and project
preparation fund would be established within IDBP. Preparation of sub-
sector studies could be done by the SICs, or by other public or private
agencies. Each subsector study would be awarded by an individual contract
which would include the terms of reference. TORs and contracts would be
approved by IDA. For project preparation, procedures and a schedule of fees
would be agreed with IDA and reimbursement made periodically. The fund is
estimated at US$0.5 million or 2% of the credit component, with US$0.25 mil-
lion allocated to subsector studies and to project preparation, respectively.
V. THE CREDIT
A.   Main Terms and Conditions
5.01      On-lending Arrangements:  Credit Component.  The proposed credit of
SDR 23.6 million (US$30 million equivalent) would be made to the Government of
Pakistan. Participation Agreements between IDBP and the commercial banks, and
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP and IDBP covering the US$26 million
component have been prepared. The signing of the Participation Agreements by
at least two banks, and the approval and issue by these participating banks of
a circular governing lending policies, eligibility criteria and the organiza-
tional arrangements for the credit component, would be conditions of effective-
ness of the credit. The IDA credit would cover 80% of the subloan amounts for
projects appraised by the commercial banks and approved/authorized by IDA.
IDA's disbursement would be against foreign exchange and local costs of
machinery and equipment, buildings and permanent working capital. The credit
component is expected to be committed in three years and disbursed in four
years from the date of effectiveness.
5.02      On-lending Arrangements:  Technical Assistance.  The US$4 million
of technical assistance would be passed on to the respective agencies on
IDA terms. For the service centers, Sind export promotion component and
Baluchistan project preparation component, separate project agreements between
IDA and the respective provincial governments have been agreed upon. Schedules
1 and 2 of the DCA cover the EPB export promotion component.
5.03      Re-lending Terms.  The commercial banks would charge sub-borrowers
an interest rate of not less than 11% on subprojects financed under the credit.
The current annual inflation rate is estimated at 10% (para 2.20) which would
therefore mean a positive real lending rate. The 11% lending rate would be
the same as the rate stipulated under the SBP small loans schemes and the
basic lending rate charged by development banks and commercial banks for fixed
investment loans. The relending rate would be subject to review periodically
(para 2.21). GOP would also increase the relending rate for future subpro-
jects under the credit, if at any time it raises the general level of interest
rates.
5.04      Repayment Terms.  Maturities to sub-borrowers would be at least 3
years and up to a maximum of 10 years, with a grace perioa up to 24 months.
The commercial banks would repay IDB-P on a tixed amortization aced  oi
12 years inclusive of 3 years grace; the banks would recycle funds arising
from the different maturities into other SSI projects. IDBP would repay GOP
on a fixed schedule, payable over 15 years with 5 years grace. IDBP would
carry no risk under the project.



- 35 -
5.05      Exchange Risk.  As in other recent IDA credits, 1/ GOP would carry
the exchange risk. However, a special fee for SSI subborrowers is not recom-
mended because: (a) of the difficulty of separating SSI loans into foreign
exchange and local currency components; (b) of the high proportion of local
currency component likely to be contained in each SSI subloan; (c) an 11%
lending rate would be consistent with other lending by commercial banks for
fixed term investment; and (d) SSI units do not enjoy equal access to credit
and import licenses. Subloans refinanced by IDBP would be denominated and
repayable in rupees.
5.06      Spread.  In order to provide sufficient incentive to the commercial
banlcs to develop the smaller end of their SSI clientele and to compensate
them for the higher processing costs of a large number of small loans, a
spread of 5.25% for subloans below Rs 800,000 and 4% for subloans at and
above Rs 800,000 would be provided. To achieve this, the following terms
for onlending and relending have been incorporated:
Subloans Belcw Subloans at and Above
Rs 800,000         Rs 800,000
1.   Lending rate to the client              11%               11%
2.   Spread to the participating
commercial banks                         5.25              4
3.   Interest charge paid by
commercial bank to IDBP                  5.75              7
4.   Spread to ID]3P                          1.5               1.5
5.   On-lending rate:  GOP to IDBP            4.25              5.5
6.   IDA to GOP (service charge)          3/4 of 1%         3/4 of 1%
Commitment charges wouild be waived by GOP and IDBP since the credit involves
many subprojects and multiple institutions. However, commercial banks could
charge commitment fees to their sub-borrowers according to their normal
practices.
B. Implementation Features
5.07      Refinance Arrangements.  The five banks discussed in Chapter 4--
National, Habib, United, Muslim Commercial and Allied--will be eligible for
refinance of subloans under the credit. The Project Agreement between IDA
and IDBP, and the Participation Agreements between II)BP and the commercial
banks spell out the respective functions and responsibilities of IDBP and
the commercial banks which are as follows:
1/   Credit 1019-PAK (PICIC); Credit 974-PAK, Third Highways Projects:
IDEP component.



- 36 -
Review         For the larger subloans (those at and above Rs 800,000), IDBP
Funct%n:       would review the appraisal reports to be submitted by the com-
mercial banks in order to determine whether the project is
economically justified, is financially viable and technically
sound, and whether it meets the eligibility criteria. IDBP
would also review that procurement procedures have been duly
followed. IDBP would summarize the project proposal and would
forward its review and the commercial bank's appraisal report
to IDA for approval of the subloan. Communication would be
sent to the banks through IDBP.
Disbursement   IDBP would submit to IDA withdrawal applications containing
Function:      summary information on its disbursements to commercial banks
for IDA's authorization and reimbursement. For smaller
subloans (below Rs 800,000), the commercial banks would submit
the projects individually or in batches. IDBP would briefly
review these to see whether the projects meet the eligibility
criteria and, if so, reimburse the banks up to 80% of their
eligible disbursements.
Monitoring      IDBP would monitor the subloans being processed by the banks
Function:       through semi-annual reports submitted by the participating
banks. These reports would provide tabulated information
on a subproject basis regarding the types and sizes of subpro-
jects approved, names of companies financed, location, subsec-
tor group, subloan amount and breakdown of fixed investment
and permanent working capital, rate of disbursement, collection
performance and arrears position. IDBP would consolidate this
information and prepare for IDA quarterly progress reports on
the overall utilization of the credit, broken down for each
bank.
Subsector      IDBP would administer and provide design support to the sub-
Support:       sector studies fund, which would be used to finance studies
of promising SSI subsectors, and to develop project profiles
and models intended to assist the participating banks in pro-
ject appraisals. The subsector study would estimate credit
and investment requirements in order to provide feedback to
commercial banks in developing their SSI pipelines.
Training:       IDBP would organize training for officers of participating
banks in SSI project appraisal and supervision methodology.
The training would be conducted locally with the assistance
of local training institutions. In the case of senior officers,
the training would take the form of overseas on-the-job train-
ing with leading commercial banks and training institutes
(para 5.13).
5.1)0     -QV's role, therefore, would be primarily to lend its
appraisal experience to the credit arrangements and to assist 1DA is, the
subproject review process. Only where subloans were not in accordance with
the eligibility criteria would IDBP revert the project back to the commercial



- 37 -
bank.  In all other cases regarding the smaller category of subloans, IDBP
would immediately (no more than two weeks) approve for refinance the 80% of
the subloan amount to the banks. Supporting documentation would be certified
by the commtercial bank's authorized signatory and original copies would be
retained by the commercial banks for IDA's/IDBP's verification. On the larger
.ubprojects, IDBP's review would be completed within three weeks. In order
to cover the time lag between IDBP's disbursement and IDA's reimbursements
and to meet IDBP's costs in setting up its SIRD (para 5.14), GOP would make
available to IDBP a line of credit of Rs 10 million which would be used as a
start-up fund for the refinance facility and would be repayable to GOP over
4 years.
5.09      Credit Amount.  Annual demand for term credit by SSIs is estimated
to be about Rs 250 million. 1/ As shown in Annex 4, Table 1, the supply of
credit (net increase in outstandings) for small businesss and industry is about
Rs 1 billion. However, of this, only about Rs 100 million would be for fixed
investment by industry, the remainder being loans for working capital and
for traders. Thus, in the coming years there is likely to be an annual short-
fall of about Rs 150 million in meeting the needs of ;SSIs. At the same time,
the SSI Survey found that there is already a substantial excess demand for
institutional credit which was being met from the informal credit markets at
substantially higher costs. Borrowings accounted for 38% of investment cost
(on average) while borrowings from financial institutions represented only 21%
of total investment. Thus, substantial scope exists for the banks to replace
non-institutional sources, and more importantly to provide credit with long-
term, maturities that match the earnings ability and cash flow of the SSI
units. A credit component of US$26 million (US$8.5 million in commitments
per annum) would meet a small but vital portion of the volume of bank loans
to SSI.
5.10      Regional Allocation.  Through their branch network, the banks would
attempt to ensure that SSI units in the NWFP and Baluchistan provinces not be
at a disadvantage in obtaining subproject financing. A specific amourit could
not be allocated for each province in advance since the total credit utiliza-
tion by each bank will not be known in advance. Rather, the banks would
submit feasible subprojects to IDA on a "first-come-first-serve" basis in
order to achieve a competitive framework for the project.
5.1L.     Bank Operating Statements and IDA's Subproject Review.  As a condi-
tioni of effectiveness, the participating commercial banks would approve and
issue a circular governing lending policies, eligibility criteria and their
organizational arrangements for the credit component. Since this would be
IDA's first SSI project in Pakistan, tight review procedures are included.
All subloans at and above a free limit of Rs 800,000 would be reviewed by IDA
prior to authorization for disbursement. For subloans below Rs 800,000, IDA's
advance approval would not be required, but the banks would be required to
submit to IDBP information showing for each loan, the! subsector involved,
1/   Based on past figures, investment in SSI is expected to be about Rs 750
llIc/ rI irz PYS0.  Of this, about one-third  zczo]Ld be financed by banks,
drawing upon the data from the UNIDO survey.



- 38 -
location, amount, fixed investment and permanent working capital costs,
maturity, size of unit financed and the investment costs per job ratio.
IDBP would then review whether the subproject is in accordance with the
stated eligibility criteria.
5.12      Utilization.  The rate of utilization by each bank will depend on
the projects in its pipeline and its capacity to appraise them. Based on
size of the bank and volume of previous lending, the minimum number of loans
that might be expected to be processed by each bank is as follows:
A.   US$13.0 million in loans below       National, Habib & United  70 loans
Rs 800,000 subloans:  (average                                       each
loan of Rs 450,000, 290 loans        MCB                         50 loans
total)                               Allied                      30 loans
290 loans
B.   US$13.0 million in loans above       National, Habib & United  30 loans
Rs 800,000 upto Rs 2.0 million                                       each
(average loan of Rs 1.15 million,  MCB                           15 loans
115 loans total)                     Allied                      10 loans
115 loans
With a three year commitment period, all banks combined would process about
eight subloans per month in the smaller category, and three subloans per
month in the larger category.
5.13      Appraisal/Follow-up by the Banks.  In order to strengthen appraisal
and supervision of subprojects, a condition of disbursement to IDBP for
refinancing to each commercial bank which has signed the Participation
Agreement would be: (i) it has strengthened its small loans department by
creating a special small industries loan division; (ii) it has recruited or
assigned to the division 6 officers: namely, a manager, engineer, credit
analyst, economist, and 2 administrative officers; (iii) it has specified
approval procedures and discretionary powers of zonal and branch managers,
satisfactory to IDA. The training would cover project appraisal and follow-up
methodology, consisting of courses/on-the-job training at agencies abroad,
e.g., in the Philippines and/or Korea. 1/ IDA would finance 100% of the costs
of such training. A training program would be submitted by GOP for IDA's
approval by June 30, 1981.
5.14      The Small Industry Refinance Department.  For the purpose of imple-
menting the refinance/monitoring aspects of the credit component, IDBP has
created a special Small Industry Refinance Department (SIRD) which would carry
out the analytical review functions and the monitoring and post-evaluation
of subproject information. The SIRD would monitor the overall utilization
of the credit by each bank and make recommendations regarding any necessary
redirection of subproject processing capacity should imbalances arise, e.g.,
1/   e.g., the Association of.Development Finance Institutions for Asia
(ADFIAP) headquartered in Manila, which would accept commercial bank
trainees on its regular training exercises, or commercial banks in
Korea and the Philippines.



- 39 -
dominance by one bank, concentration of lending in a narrow range of subsectors,
and a lack of an adequate share of subprojects for NWFP or Baluchistan. In
order to carry out its functions, IDBP would staff the department as follows:
-    Department Head (with commercial bank experience) 1/
-    3 Senior Officers (economist, engineer, SSI Specialist
with financial background)
-    3 Grade III Officers
-    Clerical Staff
The :projected costs and cash flow involved in operating the SIRD are shown
in Annex 13, allowing for a 1.5% spread to IDBP. The projections assume that
IDBP will pay interest at 10% per annum (SBP rate) on the Rs 10 million to be
made available by GOP (para 5.08).
5.15      Disbursements.  In view of the large number of subprojects and the
small-size of subloans, the normal DFC procedure of disbursing against expen-
ditures of individual subprojects would be inappropriate. Thus, all disburse-
ments for foreign or local expenditures made by the commercial banks will be
financed equally up to 80% of subloan amounts. Disbursements for subloans at
and above Rs 800,000 would be fully documented to IDBP, except for permanent
working capital. Disbursements for permanent working capital and for the
smaller subloans (below Rs 800,000) would be reimburs(ed against certified
statements of expenditure for which appropriate documentation would be retained
by the commercial banks and made available for inspection by IDA supervision
missions. IDA's reimbursements to the commercial banks would be limited to
expenditures made by the sub-borrower not more than 120 days prior to IDA's
receipt of IDBP's request for reimbursement. Annex 14 shows the estimated
disbursement schedule.
5.16      Disbursement - Technical Assistance Components.  For the Gujrat and
Bannu Service Centers, IDA would disburse 100% of (a) foreign expenditures
for equipment and initial raw material stock imported directly; (b) expendi-
tures for consultant's services; (c) the foreign exchange costs of overseas
training; and (d) costs for set-up of a detailed monitoring and evaluation
system. For the export promotion components, IDA would disburse 100% of
consultant services and the foreign exchange costs of expenditures for market-
ing events. Withdrawal applications would be submitted directly to IDA by the
implementing agency (e.g., PSIC, SIDB, SSIC and EPB). Prior authorization by
IDA for financing of goods and services under the service centers component
would be required. Withdrawal applications for disbursement by IDA would be
fully documented by the agency concerned.
5.17      Procurement.  Goods and services costing US$20,000 equivalent or
more per item or US$50,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured through
international shopping (limited international tendering) on the basis of at
least three (3) competitive quotations; for contracts of goods and services
1/   Already appointed.



- 40 -
with single items costing less than US$20,000 or combined items costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent, the commercial bank would ensure and certify that
these are reasonably priced and are suitable to the requirements of the
investment project. The banks presently require their clients to obtain three
competitive quotations on fixed investment loans. For subloans under the
credit, the banks would be required to maintain records of the method of
procurement, and would be required to summarize the offers and the award when
presenting the larger subloans to IDBP/IDA for approval. IDA's supervision
missions would periodically review these records. Procurement of machinery
and equipment for the two service centers would be according to international
shopping. Machinery and equipment procured locally shall be in accordance
with government practices which are acceptable to IDA.
5.18      Reporting, Accounts and Audits.  The commercial banks would each
submit a semi-annual progress report on their appraisal, follow-up and collec-
tions activities under the project. Regarding the subloans, the banks would
submit:
(a) for loans at and above Rs 800,000, a short-form appraisal
report on a format agreed by IDA. The form/report would be
shorter than that used by PICIC or IDBP but more detailed
than used by the banks currently 1/; and
(b) for subloans below Rs 800,000, a list of projects financed
would be submitted showing the information mentioned in
para 5.11.
In addition, the banks would maintain proper accounts for subloans and docu-
mentation on procurement decisions, disbursements performance, and repayment
record. These accounts would be audited annually, according to current prac-
tices. IDBP would aggregate the commercial banks' reports into a consolidated
semi-annual report for IDA's review.
5.19      The Gujrat and Bannu Service Center Organizations would prepare
(i) semi-annual progress reports; (ii) annual implementation records including
projected implementation in the coming year; (iii) information on procurement
and disbursement for machinery and equipment; and (iv) detailed annual moni-
toring and evaluation report. The Service Centers would each maintain separate
accounts and these would be audited annually by independent auditors and by
the Auditor General's Office of the Punjab and NWFP Administrations. The
EPB would submit a semi-annual report on its activities under the product
adaptation/export promotion component. SSIC would similarly submit a semi-
annual progress.report. In addition, requests for disbursements withdrawals
1/   A standard loan application/short-form appraisal has been designed by IDA
and reviewed with each bank. The form expands on SBP's form concerning
aspects dealing with economic ratios, raw materials availability and
market demand. For subprojects in subsectors for which studies and
profiles are u-naNailab1e, the appraisal would aeed to be more detaitea
on the eco-nomic justiication a'<5 ticat aspects of t're  oect
(para 4.06).



- 41 -
for marketing events would be documented adequately with separate accounts
kept by activity component. The SIC's would submit to IDA, for approval,
terms of reference for subsector studies and progress reports on each study
prepared semi-annually. For the Baluchistan Project Development component,
the Department of Industry's SIW would prepare a progress report semi-annually.
5.20      Next Steps for the Service Centers.  PSIC and SIDB have reviewed
IDA's detailed designs, machinery specifications and cost estimates, and
confirmed that the Planning Commission forms (PC-I) have been drafted arnd
submitted.' to their Provincial Governments for approval. The Punjab and NWFP
Governments will confirm to IDA their approval of the PC-Is.
C.   Monitoring/Post-Evaluation 1/
5.21      In order to monitor the utilization of the credit, particularly
according to subsector distribution, regional diversification, relative speed
and strength of appraisal processing by the individual banks, IDA would design
monitoring/post-evaluation check-sheets which would be completed by each bank
semi--annually. On particular aspects, such as economic ratios, benefits of
subprojects financed, rate of returns (where possible), raw materials con-
straints, etc. the subsector study fund could be tapped for financing special
post--evaluation studies by agencies such as IACP, PIDE, and the Institute of
Business Administration at Karachi University.
5.22      Since the service centers component is a fairly new area for IDA/
IBRD comprehensive, in--depth monitoring and post-evaluation systems would be
designed and carried out. The systems would survey arnd analyze the target
groups in order to define the present state of the industry in relation to
the specific objectives and functions of the service centers (e.g. appropriate-
ness of technology in terms of productivity and factor substitutions, organi-
zational and managerial systems, worker skills and labor productivity, etc.).
At the end of each project year, and more comprehensively at the end of the
fourth year, the same study would be carried out in order to provide a basis
for comparing the industry before and after the centers. The quantitative
methods to be used would be economic rate of return calculations, modified
if possible to measure the social benefits. An amount: of US$0.07 million
has been allocated under each se-vice center for this purpose (paras 4.22
and 4.26).
1/   This term, rather than "monitoring/evaluation," is used because the latter
term has caused much confusion among SBP and the commercial banks who
consider the term to mean evaluation (appraisal) and approval of loans.



- 42 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The Overall Project.  The SSI sector has important employment-
generation effects, export growth potential, and income redistribution
effects.  The project would promote the growth of the SSI sector through
increased credit and technical assistance and would assist in streamlining
the roles of the various institutions involved with SSIs.
6.02      The Credit Component.  About 475 subprojects would be financed
under the project with total costs, including sponsors equity, of about
US$54 million. The banks would be encouraged to concentrate their lending
on the smaller-sized projects through differential spreads. Direct employ-
ment that would be generated is estimated to be about 13,000 full-time jobs
with investment costs per job (excluding land costs) of about US$3,500 on
average. Many of the SSIs have significant forward and backward linkages, and
indirect employment benefits are also expected though these are difficult to
assess. Export revenue benefits would result from improved financing in
export oriented SSIs such as surgical instruments and sports goods. The
Credit will increase the involvement of commercial banks in longer-term,
developmental lending.
6.03      Gujrat Service Center.  The proposed Center would be a timely and
important instrument in improving the long-term viability of the small
scale furniture industry in Gujrat and adjacent areas in Punjab. By encourag-
ing the use of wood-veneers instead of solid wood, the same amount of timber
resources could produce about 3 times more furniture equivalent. Current
industry workers would be directly and indirectly exposed to better technology
and production methods. Subcontracting between the private units and the
Center would improve the industry's capability to respond to a wider market.
Extension services would be provided, cross-subsidized by the center's pro-
duction activities. Finally, important import-substitution benefits and
export revenue would accrue to the national economy.
6.04      Bannu Service Center.  The Center would assist in the conversion
of a sizeable target group (600 units) from the increasingly unviable produc-
tion of footwear goods into higher labor-content leather goods, which have a
strong future in domestic and overseas markets. The conversion process would
directly benefit the target group through technical, marketing and managerial
assistance, with an impact on about 3,000 workplaces. The Center would also
have regional development benefits on the adjacent districts of the NWFP.
Although the commercial production aspect of the Center has been minimized in
order to attach priority to promotion and extension services, the Center is
expected to achieve reasonable returns through user charges and joint produc-
tion activities with the target group. Finally, the Center would contribute
towards increasing value-added of the Pakistan leather industry by encouraging
further processing of leather into finished goods, and eventually rendering
the leather goods subsector nore coxmetitive ini. doaestic and- farecig,n 'arkets.



- 43 -
6005      Other Components.  Support for the export promotion activities of
SSIC and EPB would increase export earnings by SSI. The component for
project development in Baluchistan would encourage growth of SSIs in this
underdeveloped province with consequent economic benefits. Funds for sub-
sector studies are expected to provide guidance for further ways to improve
lending and technical assistance for SSIs.
Risks
6.06      A feature, if not a direct risk, in the credit component relates to
the impact of Islamization on cost recovery measures. GOP has previously
assured the Bank that foreign loans and credits would not be affected by any
of the measures currently under review, although this would introduce another
set of credit allocational problems (para 2.22). T'hus, PICIC, IDBP and
NDFC seem to be insulated, being specialized development banks. However, the
commercial banks are in a somewhat different category, and should GOP move
towards abolishing interest rate charges on short and long term loans denomin-
ated in rupees, the recovery of subloans by the commercial banks could
be affected.  However, GOP has indicated that other fees or charges would be
introduced to offset the loss of interest.  A direct risk lies in the degree
of processing capacity and attention that the commercial banks would devote to
this project, which represents a small fraction of their overall operations.
However, with the IDBP refinance arrangements and :[DA's supervision, this risk
should be alleviated.
6.07      Service Centers.  The risks inherent in the two service centers are
similar--that they would not sufficiently involve the private sector, that they
may not be sufficiently cost-effective, and that the local counterpart may not
be readily trained to take over the project once the advisers complete their
assignments. 1/ On the first point, by inclusion of private sector represen-
tatives on the Management Committees these risks would be reduced.  Second,
both centers have been designed to utilize the most appropriate machinery and
equipment obtainable at the lowest price. International shopping will keep
pressure on the centers to obtain the cheapest equipment available. However,
a minimum level of machinery quality is required in order to offer common
facilities that the target group units would be interested in using. Third,
expertise in Pakistan is improving, and particularly in the case of the Gujrat
Center, trained service personnel could be hired from the Peshawar Woodwork
Center. The recruitment of advisors is considered necessary due to the
complexities of design, equipment and rendering industrial extension services;
this technical assistance should greatly reduce the risks in these areas.
1/   A paper entitled "Service Centers as Instruments for Promoting Small-and
Medium-Scale Industry in Developing Countries" presented by the German
Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation (BMZ) at the World Bank-convened
Berlin conference of SSI donor countries (October 1979), resulted in much
debate on the effectiveness of service centers. Partial lessons concluded
were that if service centers were target group specific, if equipment
were properly selected, and if private sector participation were designed
as an integral feature of the organizational arrangements, the centers
should have a high probability of success. Ihese factors were foremost
in the design of the Gujrat and Bannu Centers.



- 44 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, GOP's agreement was obtained on:
(a)  the terms for onlending, relending and spread (paras
5.02-5.06);
(b)  review of the relending interest rate under the credit
(paras 2.21 and 5.03);
(c)  GOP's allocation of an initial amount of Rs 10 million as a
start-up fund in the IDBP Refinance Facility (paras 5.08 and
5.14);
(d)  The handicrafts export promotion component with SSIC (para 4.29);
(e)  The manufactured goods export promotion component with
EPB (para 4.29); and
(f)  The Baluchistan project preparation component (para 4.32).
7.02      During negotiations, IDBP and officially designated representa-
tive(s) of the commercial banks agreed to:
(a)  eligibility criteria for subproject financing under
the credit (para 4.06);
(b)  the onlending and relending terms under the credit
(paras 5.03-5.06);
(c)  the refinance arrangements under the credit (para 5.07);
(d)  Review Procedures and Criteria to be applied by IDBP
(para 5.07);
(e)  the review procedures by IDA, namely prior approval of all
subloans at and above Rs 800,000 and a list of subloans below
Rs 800,000 submitted for reimbursement (para 5.11); and
(f)  IDA's reporting requirements, including individual listing
of subprojects financed along with pertinent economic informa-
tion, and quarterly progress reports (para 5.18).
7.03      During negotiations, the Punjab Government agreed to the scope,
objectives and institutional arrangements proposed for the Gujrat Woodworking
Service Center, including its organization structure, management, staffing,
and provision for advisors (para 5.20). The NWFP Government representative
agreed to similar provisions for the Bannu Service Center.



- 45 -
7.04      The following are recommended as conditions of effectiveness of
the credit component:
(a) Signing of Participation Agreements between IDBP and
at least two commercial banks, satisfactory to IDA.
(b) Approval by the Boards of Directors of the signatory
banks of Statements of Operating Policies and Procedures
under the credit, satisfactory to IDA.
(c) Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOP and
IDBP.
(d) Project Agreements for Punjab, NWFP, Sind and Baluchistan
have been ratified by their respective governments.
7.05      The conditions of disbursement on the credit component would be that
at least two participating banks have (i) adopted programs for strengthening
their small loans divisions in a manner satisfactory to IDA; (ii) entered
into Participation Agreements satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) approved state-
ments of operating policies and procedures satisfactory to IDA.



PAKISTAN
SMALL INDU.STRIES PROJECT
M-nfacturing SeCtor; Val-e Added, Fixed Assets, end Employment, S1eleted years   Rso. millions in 1959-60 prices)
VALUE               1/~~Iti  lXI0 D                                              ABSSE,T S                                                        E MPLO-YMENT
P~~~-                 _1~~~959/60         1 964/65    7.    1970/71    7.    1975/76    %1          1959/60   %7    1964165    5.    1970/71    '/    1975/76    5.    1959/60    7                946         .     17/0         7      957
1,152.1   10Q    2,315.4    100   36_96.1               3,385.2.1J  .108    1,41    10   2,793                  3,621.              2.793.6            30.6        100   364.750   1000   -2.0           I.   A21S963   710g
Total                    75.         6-6                      .2.         4 2324            6         905.9   63   1,2.           62   2.140.8       59   1,805.1       65 75.  6 15  5 1  2 7  ,0.  8220.472  72   253.395  70   301.146  70   32193 7
Consumer  Gunds          ~~96.3             285.5             600.4              758.0               131.0             271.0              599.7              471.4             21,418             24,233             42,109             44,130
Food                                4.9              20.5               27.8               32.4                 3.2              18.2               16.7               13.3                841              1,692              1,570              2,882
Beverages                         64.1              198.2              402.1              388.2                39.4              82.0              54.7                27.1              3,635             12,820             12,065             22,958
T.baOc.                          462.7              797.6            1,120.4              784.8               575.4          1,137.2            1,174.7              982.8            158,379            180,679             204,870            217,032
Apaexl  (Sr.POOtos.....           29.4              54.9               16.4                6.9                 7327.8                               5.6                3.3              517                7,368                735              1,293
App.r,                   ~~~~2.4             6.4                8.1                5.0                 2.5               5.9                5.6                9.0                993              1,662             .2,169              1,086
Furnit.re                         26.8               41.0               61.2               37.0                26;6              53.2              58.3                23.5              8,423              7,575              8,255              6,224
Printing                          66.4              113.2              485.9              290.1               120.5            127.3              225.5              274.7             20,810              17,366             29,373             27,258
303.0     26      576.2      25       709.1     19      712.1      21       405.3    28      .BQQ..      29   121.          33      70827      25    527.606       19    70.332      19     8653        20     9652        21
Inte..mediate Goods               19.9               23 6               60.1               69.6                32.0             32 6              202.5               69.3              2,534               2,1802             6,391              5,668
Paper                             16.4               36.1l              48.8               41.5                 6.3             34:i5&/            26.6               27.3               1,658              2,977-/            6,808             15,137
Rubber                             8.0               27.1               43.6               34.9                10.5              15.1               14.0              32.7              '2,836              4,361              3,622              3,241
Leather                           97.1              254.1              246.1              283.4               151.8            433.0              472.6              304.5             13,182              18,215             251,601            26,893
ChemIcals                          1.5                1.7                5.5                6.2                 n.a.              1.9              11.3                 7.8               n.e.                657              1,350              1,382
Wdood Prod-ctO                    36.3               83.4               89.2               85.8                40.0              70.9               78.7              49.8              10,279             13,173             10,841             12,350
Basic Metals                      44.6               58.2               64.5               55.6                36.7             61.7               73.8               42.6             16,584             16,184              14,787             14,997
Metal Products                    74.4               92.0              151.3              135.1                95.0            151.1              333.0              174.7             10,533              12,585             17,138             16,644
Non-metalliC MineraI6              4.3                n.e                n.e                  .                33.0              ..a                in..                 .                 n.a                n.a                 ..a               n.e
Pet-le-ko/-$ul
95.6      8      221.9      10      264.7       7      370.6      11      125.7.      9     269.6~    9         2.68.3      7      279.8      10     28.588       9    41.023       11     39.727       9     43.74~    9  -
LCapital  Goods                  2T9.4             4_13.3              35.5               94.7                25.5              57.9               40.0              175.6              9,571             12,772             10,460             13,719
Non-Els.. Machinery               27.7               87.5              133.4              114.9                31.5             87.1              105.4               40.1              6,898              14,814             13,620             10,446
Electric Machiney                 38.4               91.1               95.8             161.0                68.7             124.6              122.9               64.1             12,120             13,437             15,647              19,581
Tra...port Equipment
Value Added                                                                                  Fixed Assets                                                                  Employment
A-r  ~    ~      ~      6-6/6             4/57071           7/7-5/76                                                59/60T64/65        64/65-70/71        70O/ 71-75/ 76                        0667654/50/1                          7/17/6
Average  AnnualGrout      15                 8214                                                                                            4               ..5432
All1 Industries                    15                10                  -3                                                       14                  4               -3                                     3                    9 
Consumer Goods                     14                 4                 0.1                                                      15                   7              -10                                     4                    4                 2
Intermediate G.ud.                 18                3                    7                                                      16                  0                 1                                     7                   -1                 2
capital G.oud
DI__ ____  ----  loo  100           -100                                                     ~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~100  100  -100                                 100                   100              j.0.
All Industries                     66               87                -135                                                       605                                   057                                                       76                60
Consu.mer Guod.                    23                10                   1                                                      29                 49              - 61                                    22                   26                28
Intermediate Goods                113                                   34                                                       11                  0                 1                                   21                    -2                12
Capital Goads
1/ Adjuted    ~ 1eale Price Index for Manufactures (1959-60=100).
T/ Figures       foi~   15/66.
S-oce: C.os-s of Ns,Ufect.ring Industries,  Statistics Dvision., Ministry of Finance, Planning and Development.
September 2, 1980



PAKISTAN
SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Industrial Investment in Constant Prices- ,1963/64-1978/79
(Rs. million)
2/
Year                  Private Industrial Investment                         Public -/       Public           Total
Large & Medium        %        Small       %                     Industrial      as %          Industrial
Scale           Share     Scale      Share      Total        Investment      of Total      Investment
1963/64       975.3            89        116.2        11     1,091.5           37.2            3           1,128.7
1964/65     1,108.4             90       126.3        10     1,234.7          123.8            9           1,358.5
1965/66       961.8            88        129.5        12     1,091.4          118.5           10           1,209.9
1966/67       873.5            86        139.2        14     1,012.7          114.6           10           1,127.3
1967/68       863.5            86        137.3        14     1,000.9          122.0           11           1,122.9      1
1968/69       796.4            86        134.1        14        930.4          72.2            7           1,002.6
1969/70       899.8            87        139.8        13     1,039.6          133.5           11           1,173.1      -4
1970/71        859.9            86       141.7        14     1,001.6           47.9            5           1,049.5
1971/72       670.8            82        144.6        18        815.4          65.0            7             880.4
1972/73       446.8            75        149.8        25        596.6          64.8           10             661.4
1973/74        333.6            68       155.7        32        489.3         182.9           27             672.2
1974/75       347.6            69        156.7        31        504.4         373.8           43             878.2
1975/76       406.8             72       158.3        28        565.1         988.7           64           1,553.8
1976/77        340.4            67       164.3        33        504.7       1,283.5           72           1,788.2
1977/78        478.3            71       197.1        29        675.4       1,909.1           74           2,584.2
1978/79       470.6             70       200.3        30        670.9       1,737.2           72           2,408.1
Av.~ge Annual Growth Rate (%)
1961/64-1969/70      -1.3                        3.1                  -0.8          23.7                           0.6
1969/70o1974/75    -17.3                         2.3                 -13.5          22.9                          -5.6
1974/75_1978/79       7.9                        6.3                   7.4          46.8                          28.7
-~r'rent'prices adjusted using Wholesale Price Index for Manufactures (1959/60=100)
2/ tncludes investment in related buildings and land.  Includes also investment outside the Annual Development Plan.
SOtce: Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs.
September 2, 1980



-48-                                   AJNNEX 3
Table 1
PAKISTAN
SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Manufacturing Sector: Capital-Labour Ratios,
Capital-Output Ratios, Output-Labor Ratios.
and Incremental Capital-Output Ratio, Selectea;Years
(Constant Rs) -/
1959/60     1964/65      1970/71      1975/76
Capital-Labor Ratios
All Industries                  4,700        7,658       8,474        6,046
Consumer Goods                  4,109        6,798       7,109        5,607
Intermediate Goods              7,036      11,386       14,012        7,358
Capital Goods                   4,397       6,572        6,754        6,396
Capital-Output Ratios
All Industries                   1.25         1.21        0.98         0.82
Consumer Goods                   1.20         1.14        0.79         1.28
Intermediate Goods               1.34        1.39         1.71         1.00
Capital Goods                    1.31         1.21        1.01         0.75
Output Labor Ratios
All Industries                  3,757       6,348        8,648        7,327
Consumer Goods                  3,417       5,988        9,040        7,151
Intermediate Goods             5,260        8,193        8,194        7,394
Capital Goods                   3,344       5,409        6,663        8,472
Incremental Capital-Output Ratios   1959/60-1964/65   1964/65-1970/71   1970/71-1975/76
All Industries                             1.16               0.60                2.70 /2
Consumer Goods                             1.07               0.35                0.80 /2
Intermediate Goods                         1.45               3.10             - 1.68 /3
Capital Goods                              1.14             - 0.03 /3             0.11
In Mm      yv5&-6t  .
21 Capital and-output changes were negative.
3/ Capital change was negative.
Source: Annex 1
September 2, 1980



PAKISTAN:  SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Aggregates and Ratios for SSIs *
Number of Firms        Percentages Employing                           Average Investment    Percentage of Investment
Number of Firms        Between:             Inetet1              vrg   netetFinanced by
\ . ~~~~Investment  1/..
Subsector                                                                                    In the    In Plant
More                  F~~~inrth     and
4 - 10    11    More                           Firm     Machinery        Own        Financial
Total   Surveyed                                                         F                      Resources   Institutions
Total          ~~Workers   Workers     20                                                  Resources__    ______
Workers
(Rs Million)            (Rs 000)
40
Leather                 4,170       834        91          8         1           30.656           36.75       10.98         79              1
2, Sports Goods               390        78       63         19         18           17.117         219.45       58.73          71             25
3'  Surgical Inst i.ments     450        90        55        22         23           27.399         304.43      111.29          74             21
4   ngineering T-oods       2.455       491        80         16         4           81.582         166.15        69.65         64             17
5. Textiles                 2,325       465        69         20        11          117.187          252.02      106.55         54             25
Agg,,egateAverage           9.790    1,958         80         14          6         273.941          139.91       54.90         62             21
1/  These aggregates refer to the firms covered by the UNIDO/IBRD Survey which were 20% of total number of firms in each subsector.
*  Source:  UNIDO Survey, 1978
September 2, 1980



PAKISTAN:  SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Aggregates and Ratios for SSIs *
Average Compound                   I
Labor                                   Sales in         Growth rate of    Raw Materials -
1978 1/       Sales over three         in 1978
years (% charge)
Percentage of                                                               Capital/
SubsectOf                                          Technical and                                                                labor
SubsecCO~~~~~~~~~~                    Skilled Labor                                                                            Capital/
Technical                     with Formal      Local   Foreign                        Local    Foreign                 output
Skilled        Office        Training                            Local    Foreign
and           andLoa                                                    Freg
Unskilled   Administration                           II_ .
(Rs Million)                            (Rs Million)      (Rs 000
per job)
1.  Leather                   5,280            543              3.2        195.3      13.5      31        32       108.3        4.6       5.8        0.324
2.  Sports Good0              1,365            152             2.1          15.0      71.0      21        15        37.8      12.9       12.5        0.801
3.  Surgical Instruments      2,134            227             2.6          15.3    123.0        8        12         1.6      65.6       12.8        0.640
4.  Engineering Coods         3,584            415             9.6         246.4      1.2       16        34       78.5       66.7       22.8        0.733
5.  Textiles                 4,741             788             4.1         216.9    151.8       15         8      190.2       15.5       24.7        0.647
Aggregate/AverOge           17,104          2,125              4.6        688.9    360.5        20       11       416.4      165.3       16.0        0.607
1/  These aggregates refer to the firms covered by the UNID0/IBRD Survey which vere 20% of total number of fIrms in eaeb
subsector.
Source:  1UNID0 Survey, 1978
September 2, 1980



PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Commercial Banik Loans for Small Business and Industry:
Targets vs. Actual FY73 to FY77
(Rs. Million) 1/
Fiscal Year              Habib       National      United      Muslim Commercial       Allied        Total
1972/73    Target        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.             n.a.               n.a.         266.0
Actual       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.             n.a.                n.a.        418.7
1973/74    Target        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.             n.a.                n.a.        450.0
Actual       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.             n.a.                n.a.         73.5
1974/75    Target        n.a.         n.a.        n.a.             n.a.                n.a.        670.0
Actual       n.a.         n.a.        n.a.             n.a.                n.a.        581.4
1975/76    Target      216.7        181.5       162.8             83.0                46.0         690.0
Actual     395.5        199.3       186.4             85.3                55.4         921.9
1976/77    Target      268.4        212.8       201.1            101.1                61.6         845.0
Actual     291.6         99.5       224.9            102.4                63.6         782.0
1977/78    Target      273.9        278.6       197.9            105.4                57.2         850.0
Actual     278.6        329.2       226.3            106.9                60.1       1,001.1
1978179    Target      2            221.2       224.5            127.5                63.4         930.0
Actual      338.9        32.4       241.4            131.9                71.3         815.9
1/  Reported on GOP Fiscal Year: July 1-June 30; commercial banks' fiscal year is the calendar                    4 
year.
Source: Pakistan Banking Council
September 2, 1980



PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
HABIB BANK LIMITED
Status of Collections by Sector on SIC-Sponsored Loans, 1977-1979
(Rs Millions)
No. of Loans or   Amount of loans   Collection or   Present Outstanding
Sector/Subsec.tor                   Borrowers           disbursed        Recoveries      including Interest            Remarks
Light Engineering                      1                 0.015                                0.015            Payment not due
1                0.150                                    -             Not availed
1                0.025              0.025                               Adjusted
1                0.230                -                   -             Not availed
Textile Hanufacturing (Towels)         1                 0.450             0.028              0.442            Regular
Ice and Cold Storage                  1                  0.680             0.071              0.719            3 instalments overdue
1                0.618              0.191              0.564            One instalment is
over due
1                0.532                -                0.644            In arrears
1                 1.000               -                0.100            Repayment not due
1                 0.250               -                0.250            Disbursement not
completed
1                 0.300               -                0.300            Repayment not due
1                 0.659               -                0.659            Disbursed on 12.1.1980
Printing Press                        1                 0.010              0.010                _              Adjusted              I
1                 0.090             0.088              0.002            Regular               U
Food Manufacturing                    1                 0.600                -                  -              Not availed
1                 0.015             0.015                -              Adjusted
1                 1.000               -                0.100            Repayment not due
Rice and Husking Mills                1                 0.180                -                0.221            In arrears
1                 0.217               -                0.224             In arrears
Textile Handicrafts (Floor Sheets)   1                  0.039                _                0.049            In arrears
1                 0.237               _                  _              Not availed
Textile (Woollen)                     1                 0.060                -                                 Not disbursed
Textile Manufacturing                 1                 0.100                -                  -              Not disbursed
Clothing (Readymade garments)         1                 0.180                -                0.207            In arrears
Chemical Products                     1                 0.570                -                0.610            In arrears
Manufacturing Furniture and
Fixtures                            1                 0.040             0.010               0.034            In arrears
Oil Processing                        1                 0.150                -                0.150            Repayment not due oir
Carpet and Rugs                       1                 0.015                -                0.015            Repayment not due m X
September 2, 1980                                       8.412             0.438              7.105



PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
MUSLIM COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
AMOUNT OF LOANS DISBURSED AND QUALIFYING UNDER 'fHE SBP SCHEME
(Rs Millions)
Name of            1973                  1974                 1975                  1976                 1977                  1978                  1979
Province    Business  Industry  Business  Industry  Business  Industry  Business| Industry  Business  Industry  Business  Industry  Business  Industry
Punjab        30.3       13.2      44.0       21.4       17.8       13.1      16.4       11.3       15.8       18.4       19.8       10.8       23.7      22.1
Sind           5.3        8.0      20.9       13.1        8.9        6.0       9.3        4.8       10.6       12.7       10.3        8.6       11.0      11.2
N.W.F.p,       2.0        1.5        4.2       2.7        0.9        1.3        1.9        1.5       1.5        0.07       1.3         -         2.4        1.4
Baluchjstan    1.4        0.01       3.1       0.01       2.7         -         1.7       0.4        1.0         -         1.1         -         1.1
Azad KLshmi     -          -         0.3         -        0.05        -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -
TOTAL         39.0       22.71      72.5      37.21      30.35      20.4       29.3      18.0       28.9       31.17      32.5       19.4       38.2/l    34.7 /1
BUSINESS        INDUSTRY      TOTAL
Total Disbursement   271.5            183.9        455.4
1973q1979
Outstanding as on
30.6.79              61.5            75.7        136.8
1/ Ihe total of loans disbursed for business and industry is Rs 72.9 million which is different to the Rs 131.9 million in Annex 4, Table 1
because the latter includes all loans reported under the mandatory lending targets, irrespective of whether or not they meet the
tollateral criteria of the Small Loans Scheme as the loans in the above table do.
SePtember 2, 1980



PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
MUSLIM COMMERCIAL BANK LIMITED
BREAK-UP OF FIXED INVESTMENT VS. WORKING CAPITAL OF SSI LOANS BY PROVINCE OUTSTANDING AS OF DECEMBER 30, 1979
(Rs Millions)
INDUSTRIAL LOANS
PUNJAB               S I N D                N.W.F.P.               BALUCHISTAN               TOTAL                          TERM OF LOANS
SUB-SECTORS                      Amount                   Amount                 Amount                 Amount                  Amount           For 1 to 2      For 2 to 3        Exceeding
Outstand'               Outs                                   tandin                         Outstanding         Years            Years           3 Years
No.   Fixe      .C.    No.ed   d                        xed    Work          Fixed   Work            Fixed   Work   No.|  Amount|  No. I Amount   No. I Amount
1.  Textile Mills           240   27.0    52.0    245   13.9    34.9    -           _       _       _       _        -    485   41.0    87.0    41    10.5          68    24.0       32      6.4
2.  Food Products            _       _        _      _       _        _      _      _       _       _       _       _      _       _        _      _        _       _        _      _         _
3.  right EngineerinS        95    6.0    12.0       80    9.0       5.0    _       _       _       _       _       _    175   15.0    17.0    32          5.2      17     9.8      -         _
4.  Ghee Industries          _                              -       -        -       -      -        -                              -      -        -      -        -       -        -
5.  Carpet Industries        15      -     12.0      20      -      16.0    _       _       _       _      _        -      35      -      28.0    -         -       -        -       _       _
6.  Leather Product
Excluding Footwear        4     -       0.2       2      _      0.08   _        _       _      _       _        _       6      -       0.2E   -         -      -        -       _ 
7.  Surgical Instruments   10               0.8       _      _                                                             10      _       0.8    _         _      _        _
and Cutlery10                   -       08        -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -        -      108                    -        -       --               --
8.  Footwear                  2     -       0.3       _-              - _      _       _      _       _                     2      -       0.3    -         -      -        -       _        _
9.  Others                 390   42.6    68.9    486   16.3   138.4    70   15.9    2.6    3.0              -      0.5   949   74.8   210.5    63    16.1    127    47.3            51    11.4
T 0 T A L              756   75.6   146.3    833   39.2   194.6    70   15.9    2.6    3.0             -       0.5  1662  130.9   344.0   136    31.8    212    81.2            83    17.8
September 2, 1980



- 55 -                                ANNEX 4
Table 5
PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Interest Rate Structure
Per Cent
A. Bank Rate
SBP Credits to other banks                                10.0
B.  Deposit Rates
Savings deposits (with checking account facilities)       10.0
Fixed Deposits
6-12 months                                                9.5
1-2 years                                                 10.0
2-3 years                                                10.5
Over 3 years                                              11.0
Bonus Deposit Accounts
1 year                                                    12.0
7 years (compound rate)                                  14.6
National Savings and Postal Savings Certificates
1 year                                                    12.0
7 years (compound rate)                                  14.6
C.  Lending Rates
Industrial Development Banks - foreign currency loans   11.0 plus exchange risk fee
- local currency loans      11.0
Commercial Banks             - long term loans            11.0
- working capital           14.0 compounded quarterly
Agricultural loans            - long term loans           11.0
SOURCES: IMF, SBP, Pakistan Banking Council.
September 2, 1980



PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE OF SICS - JUNE, 1979
PUNJAB                                S IND                               NWFP                             BALUCHISTAN
DATE ESTABLISNED                                        1965  (as WPSIC)                            1972                                 1972                                 1972
1972
2.  NUMBER OF STAFF  (OF WHICH PROFESSIONAL)                  1,905  (202)                            401  (28)                          332  (34)                            747  (86)
.                                                          ~ ~~~                       ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/  .2.
3.  TOTAL ASSETS  (OF WHICH FIXED)                        PRs 204 M  (PRa 57 M),               PRFs 37 M  (PR. 11 M) i               PRs 44.6 M  (20.8)                 PRs 14 M  (5.7 M)
4   OPERATING BUDGET ALLOCATION                                  PRs 20.5 M                           PRa 2.6 M-/                        PRs 6.0 M-/                          PRe 4.16 M
5   ACTIVITIES
(a)  Industrial Estates                                         5                        2  (Industrial Parks - 3)                         8                                   1
(b)  Service Centers                                            8                                     4                                   6                                    1
(c)  Handicraft Centers                                         6                                     4                                    6                                  55
(d)  Carpet Centers                                            78                                    20                                   13                                  36
(e)  Handicraft Sales Outlets                                   7                                     5                                    2                                   1
(f)  Dehi Mazdoor Training Centers                             10                                     _                                    _
(g)  Small Power Loom Cell                                      1                                     _                                    _
(h)  Textile Centers                                                                                                                       8                                   _
(i)  Projects sponsored for financing
(value)  -  IDBP                                  66  (PMe  55 M)                            5  ( 2.7)                       17  (PRs 10 M)                         9  (pRs 8 K)
-  Commercial Banks                    565  (PRs 134 M)                          220  (36.3)                       53  (PRs 13 M)                         __X
631  (PMs 189 M)                        225  (PRs 39 M)                     70  (PRa 23 M)                         9  (PRs 8 M)
6  NAMES OF OPERATING WINGS                         (a)  Credit and Development            (a)  Credit and Advisory            (a)  Estates and Appraisal           (a)  Marketing and Procurement
(b)  Carpet and Marketing              (b)  Handicrafts                    (b)  Textiles                       (b)  Designing, Production and
quality Control
(c)  Dehi Mazdoor                      (c)  Purchase and Licensing         (c)  Cottage Industries
(d)  Handicrafts Design Center         (d)  Exports and                    (d)  Wood
Exhibitions
(e)  Survey and Statistical            (e)  Development                    (e)  Marketing
(f) Estate Development
(g) Small Industry Advisory
Service
(h) Small Power Loom Cell
(i)  Service Centers, Handicraft
Development Center and
Purchase
NUMBER OF ZONAL OFFICES                                          5                                     2                                   4                                   None
8  FOREIGN ASSISTANCE
Loans    - (a)  West Germany                                 DM 4.8 M                               None                                 None                                  None
(b)  IDA                                         US$6.5 M                               None                                None                                  None
Grants                                             West Germany - PRs 4.102 M                        None                      West Germany - PRs 2 M                          None
Advisers                                                   11 Advisers                               None                             31 Manyears                              None
11 1978
2/ 1977
epber 2, 1980



PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SIC INDUSTRIAL ESTATES
Number of Plots               Number of Firms Allocated
Location           Cost        Total Area   Available   Allocated   % Allocated   Operating   Construct
(Rs Million)      (Acres)
PSIC
1.  Gujranwala        5.00          103.5            403          386          96            113             20
2.  Sialkot           5.64           98.8            372          199          53             67             25
3.  Gujrat            2.26           70.0            222          140          63             50             73
4.  Bahawalpur        2.35           51.2             24           24         100             13             14
5.  Lahore            0.51             9.8            34           33          97               2             6
Subtotal         15.76          333.3         1,055          782           74            245           138
SIDB
1.  Peshawar          2.40           54.4            294          273          93             61             36
2.  Khalabat          0.78           20.0             99           38          38               2             2
3.  D.I. Khan         1.12           30.0            141            8           6              -              1
4.  Mardan            2.21           30.0            136           32          24               1             1
5.  Abbottabad        1.74           20.0            102            -           0              -              -
6.  Swat              1.28           20.0             85            -           0              -              -
7.  Kohat             1.84           50.0            131            -           0              -              -
8.  Bannu             1.49           60.0            242           _            0              _             _
Subtotal         12.86          284.4         1,230          351           29             64            40
SSIC
1.  Sukkur            N.A.          110.0            297          141          47              23            11
2.  Larkana           N.A.           59.0            312          136          44             14              6
Subtotal                        169.0           609          277           45             37             17
SIW
1.  Quetta            0.13           N.A.            104       N.A.           N.A.          N.A.            N.A.
GRAND TOTAL 1/
16             28.75          786.7         2,998        1,410           49A2/         346           195
1/  Except information not available.
2/ Except SIW
September 2, 1980



-58 -                                                                  ANNEX 7
PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
SIC SERVICE CENTERS
Activities in FY78/79
Name                                    Location    Capital Cost
(Rs Million)ComnFclte
Advisory Service   Coon Facilities               ing
(Clients)        (Jobs -          Tann
(Clients)        Volume or Value)    (Trainees)
PSIC
1.  Metal Industries Development Center (Surgical Instruments)   Sialkot                 2.44               36                 18,712               18
2.  Light Engineering Service Center                                  Gujranwala         2.23                2                  1,022               18
3.  Cutlery and Small Tools Industries Service Center                 Nizamabad         N.A.               266 a/               1,930               -
4.  Institute of Ceramics                                             Gujrat             6.86                 6                 N.A. -/             21
5.  Institute of Leather Technology                                   Gujranwala         7.10              N.A.                 1,581               55
6.  Pottery Development Center                                        Shahdara           0.51               42                     42               14
7.  Sports Goods Industry Service Center                              Sialkot            1.45               45 c/               1,207               -
8.  Rubber and Plastic Research and Training Center                   Sialkot            0.48              215                      39
SIDB
1.  Pak-German Woodworking Center                                     Peshawar           2.61                75                Rs 56,000            13
2.  Wood Processing Project                                           Havellian          4.40               -                     -                 10
3.  Textile Sizing Unit                                               Peshawar           1.62               -                  Rs 50,000            -
4.  Textile Sizing Unit                                               Mardan             1.62               -                  Rs 50,000            -
5.  Textile Sizing Unit                                               Khalabat           1.10               -                  Rs 40,000            -
6.  Textile Sizing Unit                                               D.I. Khan          1.10               -                  Rs 40,000            -
SSIC
1.  Leather Footwear Center                                           Hyderabad         N.A.                _                     _                 9
2.  Light Engineering Center                                          Karachi           N.A.                               Leased
3.  Textile Center                                                    Karachi           3.04                               Closed
4.  Woodworking Center                                                Sukkur            N.A.               N.A.                 N.A.               12
SIW
1. Wooden Furniture Service                                           Quetta            N.A.                     New - Not Yet Operational
a/  This figure is considered doubtful since in the Appraisal Mission's view this service center has the least contact with the private sector.
h/ This figure was not given but the service center devotes a relatively good amount of its resources to common facilities, especially in
stone crushing, clay blending and mixing, and extension of mixed clay for the private sector.
c/  These figures are doubtful since at appraisal it was found that this center is already closed and is instead making school furniture for
the Government.
Septer5ber 2, 1980



59                                  ANEX 8
PAKISTAN
Small Industries Project
Table of Estimated Project Costs
(US$ Million Equivalent)
IDA        IDA           (lOP/
Component                Foreign      Local     Implementing   Private   Total
Currency   Currency      Ag.>>ncies    Sector
A Credit Component
-  Subloans                            11.00       15.00          6.50        21.50    54.00
-  Overseas Training for                0.15         -             -            -        0.15
Commercial Banks
Subtotal (A)                      11.15      15.00          6.50         21.50    54.15
B Guirat Woodworking Service
Center
-  Land and Building                     -           -           0.30           -        0.30
-  Machinery and Equipment              0.66         -            -            0.13      0.79
-  Monitoring and                       0.07         -                          -        0.07
Evaluation
-  Advisers                             0.50         -            -             -        0.50
-  Permanent Working Capital             -           -            -            0.07      0.07
Subtotal (B)                       1.23        -            0.30          0.20      1.73
C Bannu Leather Goods Service
Center
-  Land and Building                     -          -            0.08           -        0.08
-  Machinery and Equipment              0.22        -            0.02           -        0.24
-  Advisers                             0.60        -             -             -        0.60
-  Permanent Working Capital            0.05         -           0.26           -        0.31
-  Overseas Training                    0.08         -           0.09           -        0.17
-  Monitoring and Evaluation            0.07         -            -             -        0.07
Subtotal (C)                       1.02        -            0.45           -       1.47
D SSIC Handicraft Export
Promotion
-  Consultancy                          0.15        0.10          -             -        0.25
-  Marketing Events                     0.25         -            -            0.05      0.30
-  Staff                                 -           -           0.10           -        0.10
Subtotal (D)                      0.40        0.10          0.10          0.05     0.65
E EPB Export Promotion for
Manufactures
-  Consultancy                          0.15        0.10          -             -        0.25
-  Marketing Events                     0.25         -            -            0.05      0.30
-  Staff                                 -           -           0.10           -        0.10
Subtotal (E)                      0.40        0.10          0.10          0.05     0.65
F Baluchistan SIW - Project
Development
-  Consultancy                          0.10         -            -             -        0.10
-  Staff                                 -           _           0.01           -        0.01
Subtotal (F)                      0.10         _            0.01           _       0.11
G Subsector Studies and Project
Preparation
-  Consultancy                           -          0.50          -             _        0.50
Subtotal (G)                       -          0.50           -             -       0.50
GRAND TOTAL                            14.30       15.70          7.46        21.80    59.26
September 2, 1980



- 60 -                              ANNEX 9
Tablel1, Page 1
PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
GUJRAT WOODWORKING SERVICE CENTER
LIST OF MACHINERY/EQUIPMENT (IMPORTED AND LOCAL)
1.   Production and Common Facility Machinery
ITEM                       DESCRIPTION                         IMPORTED        LOCAL
US$            Rs.
1.         Log Band Saw 48" (Local)                               -            60,000
2.         Band Saw Machine 30"                                   -            25,000
3.         Timber Seasoning Plant
Capacity 25 m  including boiler                     35,000           2,000
4.         Rip off Saw                                         18,000            -
5.         Double End Cut Saw                                  15,000            -
6.         Circular Saw (Local) with horizontal drill             -            20,000
7.         Veneer Trimming & Finish shear                      15,000            -
8.         Planning & Jointing Machine                           -             30,000
9.         Thicknesser & Planner machine (630 mm.)             15,000            -
10.         Rigid Spindle Shaper Machine                        10,000
11.         Rigid Spindle Shaper Machine (Local)                  -             20,000
12.         Two Feeding apparatuses for rigid spindle
shapers                                            5,000            -
13.         Tenoning & Slotting machine                         15,000            -
14.         Chain Mortising Machine                              5,000            -
15.         Veneer Jointing Machine (zig zag)                   15,000            -
16.         Hole Boring & Plug Cutting Machine                    -             15,000
17.         Lacquer Coating Machine                             18,000            -
18.         Untersal Belt Sander                                 -             40,000
19.         Universal Belt Sander                               15,000            -
20.         Edge Sander                                           -             20,000
21.         Wood Turning Lathe                                    -             20,000
22.         Hydraulic Press 250 x 130 cm., 4 plates (3 day
lights).                                          20,000            -
23.         One Drum Sanding Machine                            15,000            -
24.         Spray Paint Unit                                     6,000            -
25.         Glue Spreader 130 cm.                                6,000            -
26.         Carcase Press                                        2,000          50,000
27.         Edge Glueing table, vertical                         5,000            -
28.         Board Cutting Saw, vertical                         10,000            -
29.         Dowel Hole Boring Machine                           10,000            -
30.         Dowel Making/Cutting Machines                        8,000            -
31.         Cross cut-off-saw                                    8,000            -
32.         Profile Moulder                                      8,000            -
33.         Portable machinery (electric & pneumatic)           10,000            _
34.         High Speed Router                                   10,000
35.         Carving Machine                                     I5S00Q            -
36.         Tools for above machinery                           25,000           5,000
Total Production & Common Facility Machinery    339,000            307,000



- 61 -                                    ANNEX 9
Table 1, Page 2
2. Service Machinery
IMPORTED        LOCAL
ITEM                       DESCRIPTION                          US$             Rs
1.         Air Compressor                                     10,000            -
2.         Exhaust Equipment                                  20,000          50,000
Total Service Machinery                            30,000          50,000
3.   Maintenance & Repair Machinery
IMPORTED        LOCAL
ITEM                       DESCRIPTION                          US$             Rs
1.         Two Band Saw Welding apparatus.
From 40-150 mm, 5 x 35 mm                          10,000
2.         Saw Sharpening Machine                             12,000
3.         Saw Setting Machine                                10,000
4.         Knife Grinding Machine                              5,000
5.         Tool Grinder Universal                              8,000
6.         Vertical Pillar Drill (Local)                        _             10,000
7.         Metal Turning Lathe                                  -             60,000
8.         Metal Circular Saw                                  7,000            -
9.         Welding apparatus                                    -             10,000
10.         Wall mounted grinder                                 -              3,000
11.         Cir. Saw Setting apparatus                          1,000            -
Total Maintenance & Repair Machinery               53,000          83,000
4.   Tools & Equipment
IMPORTED        LOCAL
ITEM                       DESCRIPTION                          US$             Rs
1.         Hand Tools                                          5,000          30,000
2.         Work benches (20 No)                                3,000          40,000
3.         Internal Transport Equipment                        3,000          60,000
Total Tools & Equipment                            11,000         130,000
Total Cost Machinery                              433,000         570,000



- 62 -                                   ANNEX9
Table 1, Page 3
5.   Office & Workshop Furniture & Equipment
IMPORTED        LOCAL
ITEM                       DESCRIPTION                          US$             Rs
1.         Office Furniture                                     -             40,000
2.         Typewriter (2 Nos)                                  1,500            -
3.         Blue Print Machine                                  2,000            -
4.         Drawing Boards (2 Nos)                              2,000            -
5.         Photo Copy Machine                                  5,000            -
6.         Drawing Instruments                                 1,000            -
7.         Air Conditioner (4 Nos)                             6,000            -
8.         Calculators etc.                                    1,000            -
Total Office & Workshop equipment                  18,500         40,000
6.   Local Transport & Installation Cost
IMPORTED        LOCAL
ITEM                       DESCRIPTION                          US$             Rs
1.         Installation Machinery                             20,000         200,000
& Equipment
2.         Local Transport                                                   100,000
Total Transport & Installation Cost                20,000        300,000
7.   Tranaport Equipment
IMPORTED        LOCAL
ITEM                       DESCRIPTION                          US$             Rs
1.         Truck                                              15,000         150,000
2.         Pick-up                                            10,000            -
3.         Office Car (2 Nos)                                 15,000            -
Total Transport Equipment                          40,000        150,000
IMPORTED        LOCAL          TOTAL
US$           US$  1/         US$
Landed cost 1,2,3,4                      433,000         57,000       490,000
Clearance & installation cost, 6,         20,000        30,000         50,000
Total machinery               453,000        87,000        540,000
Office & workshop equipment, 5,           18,500          4,000        22,500
Transport Equipment                       40,000         15,000        55,000
Total Cost Machinery and Equipment   511,500        106,000        617,500
Price Escalation and Contingencies 1/   153,450         21,200        174,650
664,950       127,200        792,150
1/ 30% on imported goods, 20% on local items.
September 2, 1980



- 63-                                               ANNEX 9
Table 2
PAKISTAN:  SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
OUJRAT WOODWORKING SERVICE CENTER
Manpower Requirements
Costs and Qualifications
S. NO.            P 0 S T          NO.       S C A L E  NCNTHLY SALARY    ANNUAI SALARY             QUALIFICATIONS
N.P.S.20                         (Rs)
1.        Chief Project            1       2,600-125-3,225       3,000-         36,000         a)  Bachelor Degree with Diploma
Officer                                                                                 of Associate Engineer in Wood
Work, at least 5 years exper-
ience as Manager in a private
concern or Government Insti-
tution
b)  M.B.A. with 5 years experience
responsible position in repu-
table organization or Govern-
ment concern
N.P.S. 18
2.           Project Officers        2        1,350-75-1,650/      1,800         43,200          a)  High School Certificate with
100-2,150                                              Diploma of Associate Engineer
in wood work, at least 5 years
experience as production in
charge in reputable furniture
industry
3.           Wood Technologist                    N.P.S. 17
(3 for extension        5         900-50-1,150/       1,500        90,000                Qualification same as in
service)                          50-1,325                                               S.No.2 but with 3 years
ex,erience. Qualified in
the designing of furniture
N.P.S. 16
4.           Foreman                 3         625-40-825/          1,200        43,200               Same Qualification as S.No. 3
30-1,325                                               with less experience
5.           Chief Arcounts          1            N.P.S. 18
S.   Officer                1     ,1,3250-75-1,650/    1,700        20,400               M.Com/PIIA. with 5 years
100-2,150                                               experience in a responsible
position, should be well con-
N.P.S. 10                                            versant with cost accounting
6.           Accounts Assistant    1           410-22-520/            800         9,600               B.A. with 3 years experience
24-760                                                 in accounting
N.P.S. 12
7.           Office Assistant        1         460-28-600/           950-        11,400               B.A. with 5 years experience
30-900                                                 for maintaining the office
records and knowledge of
office routine work and typing
is essential
N.P.S. 8
8.           Stenotypist             1         370-16-514/           740          8,880               High School Certificate with
18-640                                                 typing speed 40 WPM and short-
hand 80 WPM.  At least one
year experience as Stenotypist
N.P.S. 11
9.            Storekeeper            1         430-24-550/           950         11,400               B.A. with 5 years experience
28-830                                                 as Storekeeper in Private or
Government Concern.
N.P.S. 12
10.            Purchase Officer       1         460-28-600/         1,200         1.4,400               B.A. with 3 years experience
30-900                                                 of marketing and purchases
11.            Electrical Supervisor 1            Y.P.S. 10
410-22-520/         1,100         l3,200               High School Certificate with
24-760                                                 A & B Supervisory Certificate
September 2, 1980                                                                                     with 5 years experience in
an Organization for capacity
of more than 50 K.W.



- 64 -                                 ANNEX 10
Page 1
GUJRAT WOODWORKING SERVICE CENTER
Objectives and Functions
The overall objective of the Gujrat Woodworking Service Center (GWSC) is to
improve the productivity and viability of small-scale woodworking units by
assisting them improve their technology, production and management methods.
In order to achieve this, the center would perform the following functions:
(a) implement an extension program which would provide in-
plant advisory services to individual units;
(b) provide common facilities for equipment which are not
economic for small units to have in-house;
(c) conduct training of skilled workers and machine
operators;
(d) provide product design facilities; and
(e) provide demonstration of efficient production and
management methods on the factory floor.
Since the service center would be partially engaged in commercial production
in order to more effectively carry out its functions, close management would
be required to ensure that this activity would not deviate the center from
its main objective and does not result in direct competition with the private
small-scale units which the center is supposed to serve.
Management Committee
To provide overall policy direction for the service center, a management
committee of the following would be constituted:
1. Managing Director, PSIC - Chairman;
2. Deputy Managing Director, PSIC - Member;
3. Project Manager, GWSC - Member;
4. President, Gujrat Furniture Makers' Association - Member;
5. A member of the Gujrat Furniture Makers' Association
nominated by the Association - Member.
The management committee will have the following powers and responsibilities:
1.  Approve the aesign of the service center -with  elga-ra to
the following:



- 65 -                                ANNEX 10
Page 2
( i) equipment required for common facilities;
( ii) training program for skilled workers and
machine operators;
(iii) extension program for private small-scale
units; and
( iv) product lines for commercial production.
2. Approve the schedule of rates for services provided by the
center such as common facilities, training, product
designing, advisory services, etc., taking into account
reasonable cost recovery;
3. Monitor the overall performance of service center in
accordance with its objectives; and
4. Approve the quarterly and annual reports of the service
center for submission to PSIC, the Government, and IDA.
Project Manager and Staff
The center would be managed by a competent and qualified project manager who
would be hired at prevailing industry rates to ensure attraction of suitable
candidates. The project manager will be responsible for the day-to-day
management of the center. In order to enable him to operate effectively, he
should enjoy adequate financial and administrative powers. He would be
assisted by qualified staff as detailed below:
Indicative Manpower Requirements
S. No.        Post          No.                   Qualifications
1.     Chief Project       1    (a)  Degree/Diploma in wood work, at least
Officer                       five years' experience as Manager in the
private or public sector.
(b) Five years' management experience in a
responsible position in the private or
public sector.
2.     Project Officers   2    High School Certificate with Diploma in wood
work, at least five years' experience as
production in charge in reputable furniture
industry.
3.     Wood                5    Qualification same as in S. No. 2 but with
Technologist (3          three years' experience.  Qualified in the
for extension            designing of furniture.
service)



66 -                                ANNEX 10
Page 3
S. No.        Post          No.                   Qualifications
4.     Foreman             3    Five years' experience as production foreman
in the wood work industry.
5.     Chief Accounts      1    M.Com/PIIA with five years' experience in a
Officer                  responsible position, should be well
conversant with cost accounting.
6.     Accounts            1    B.A. with three years' experience in
Assistant                accounting.
7.     Office              1    B.A. with five years' experience for main-
Assistant                taining the office records and knowledge of
office routine work and typing is essential.
8.     Stenotypist         1    High School Certificate with typing speed
40 WPM and short-hand 80 WPM. At least one
year experience as Stenotypist.
9.     Storekeeper         1    B.A. with five years' experience as
Storekeeper in Private or Government concern.
10.     Purchase Officer   1    B.A. with three years' experience of mar-
keting and purchasing.
11.     Electrical          1    High School Certificate with A & B
Supervisor               Supervisory Certificate with five years'
experience in an organization with a capacity
of more than 50 K.W.
Project Advisors
The center would be provided the services of two advisorsl/- one to look after
the in-house operations of the center and the other to design and implement
the extension service program. Detailed below are the terms of reference for
these advisors:
Job Description for the Operations Advisor: the expert is required to:
1. Plan, program and implement all technical, financial and
marketing requirements of the project (production program,
lay-out plan, organization plan, technical equipment,
financing, implementation time schedule, supervision of
construction including design, staff selection, advisory
service and training courses, budget, sales, machinery
imstRtaionata It-ial oprtin aw -Mate_-ral umhae
production of own equipment in the center);
1/ The exact number of advisors would depend upon available expertise.



- 67                                ANNEX 10
Page 4
2. Perform technical and financial management of complete
established unit, e.g. organization planning, delegating
powers, supervising of production, training, and advisory
program examination;
3. Prepare new schemes for wood working units (public and
private), advisory service to local industries on
request;
4. Execute extension service, and train the local counter-
parts in all managerial and technical aspects.
Indicative Qualifications:
1.  Degree/Diploma in wood work or wood technology.
2. Training in wood technology and applied subjects;
3. At least five years' experience in the management of wood
workirg factories;
4. Experience in planning, implementation and management of
wood working plants and training institutions (preferably
in developing countries);
5. Language: English;
6. Working knowledge of Urdu is desirable.
Period For Which Required: Two years, two months.
Job Description for the Extension Services Advisor: The expert is required to:
design and execute the extension service program; train counterparts;
coordinate common facilities and training program.
Indicative Qualifications:
1. Complete professional training in general wood working;
2. Studies of furniture design (interior architecture):
3. At least five years' experience as a wood designer in
furniture-making industries, knowledge of work prepara-
tion in wood working industries;
4. Language: English;
5. Working knowledge of Urdu is desirable.
Period For Which Required: Two years.



-68 -                                 ANNEX 10
Timetable
Activity                       Tentative Starting Date
Site Preparation                       February 20, 1981
Tender Invitation                      March 15, 1981
Award of Construction Contract         March 30, 1981
Procurement of Machinery               After signing IDA Credit



69 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 1
PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
BANNU LEATHER GOODS SERVICE CENTER
List of Machinery
Serial No.   Units No.                     Type                      US$
1           1        pattern shears                             1,111
2           1        pattern binding machine                    1,343
3           1        pattern eyeletting apparatus                 724
41          1        pattern puffing machine without            1,082
table
5           1        band knife splitting machine              13,752
6           1        fixed knife splitting machine with         4,451
extra knife
7           1        guillotine for cutting cardboard --
cutting length 110 cm., width of          3,176
table 80 cm., gauge rail in mm.
scale, hand operated
8           1        small strap cutting machine working
width 60 mm., hand operated, five            641
circular blades, five spacer and
scraper
9           1        grinding machine for circtilar knives
of straps cutter, with mot:or cable          959
connection and belts
10           2        upper leather skiving machine --
working width 50 mm. with table and    13,800
dust collector, four kinds of
pressure feet
11           1        upper leather skiving machine with
special attachment for bevelled edge    4,800
belts
12           1        hydrolic press with electric heating
element and thermostat, stroke
100 mm. pressure 30 tons for
embossing and glazing with manual         3,464
movement and table size 350 x 350 mm.
time switch with stainless steel
mirror finish plate
13           1        small stamping machine - hand-
operated with electric heating             1,588
element 220V, embossing plate
70 x 90 mm. pressure maximum 300 kg.
14           1        hand operated press with die head,
special guide and electrical heating,
bottom plate with specfal guide and 2d
heating element - together with            2,035
special watch bands forming,
creasing and punching dies



70 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 2
Serial No.   Units No.                     Type                     US$
15           1        straight edge folding and creasing
machine, foot operated working            5,694
width 410 mm. for 0.5, 0.8 and 1.0
mm. crease with motor
16           1        small strap folding machine, hand
operated with spare guide and             1,276
exchangeable rollers and guides for
center and off-center folds
17           1        single edge creasing machine with
heating element 220V and exchange-        2,035
able creasing wheels (three) and
single phase motor
18           1        foot operated rivetting machine             170
with exchangeable dies
19           1        foot operated eyeletting machine            170
with exchangeable dies
20           1        foot operated end tapering punching
and marking machine with adjustable       1,224
guides
21           1        grooving machine with three grooving    2,300
knives
22           1        edge staining machine, nozzle type
with two nozzles for staining edge
of leather and for staining edge          2,259
plus margin on the upper side.
Treadle operated.
23           1        small horizontal finishing unit with        611
motor
24           1        bevelling machine for belts with          5,024
pulling-off device
25           1        single needle flat-bed sewing
machine with drop feed and central
bobbin shuttle equipped with roller       1,551
pressure with table and clutch
motor for functional stitching,
Pfaf34-705/03BL
26           1        single needle flat-bed sewing
machine, lock stitch high speed
with drop feed, equipped with roller    1,979
presser for thick thread ornamental
stitching Pfaf.463-944/OlBL
27           l        single needle ilat-bed zigzag  ocvk
stick sewing machine for ordinary         1,630
operations with work plate
Pfaf.138-6/21



- 71 -                            ANNEX 11
Page 3
Serial No.   Units No.                    Type                     US$
28           1       single needle flat-bed sewing
machine with extra hooks Pfaf.543-        2,204
944
29           1       single needle cylinder bed sewing
machine right-hand balance wheel          2S658
with attachments for conversion for
watch straps, Pfaf 33106107
30           1       single needle lockstitch cylinder,
bed sewing machine with left-hand        1,847
balance wheel, equipped with roller
pressure, Pfaf 27-55/OlCI
31           1       single needle lockstitch postbed
sewing machine with Unison feed for
light weight leather crat-t              3,735
articles for ordinary sewing
operations PF595-H3-6/0l D LMN
32                   mascellaneous Tools                       9,976
99,269
Subtotal (machines and tools) rounded off                                    100,000
Spare Parts (10%)                                        10,000
Freight and Insurance (10%)                              10,000
Price anci Exchange Rate Contingencies (20%)             20,000      40,000
CIF                                                                          140,000
Customs Duties (40%)                                                56,000
Landed Cost                                                                  196,000
Handling, Inland Freight, Installation, etc. (20%)                  20,000
TOTAL                                                                        216,000
TOTAL ( ROUNDED OFF )                                                        220,000
September 2, 1980



72-                             ANNEX 12
Page 1
BANNU LEATHER GOODS SERVICE CENTER
Objectives and Functions
The leather footwear industry in Bannu is experiencing a deteriorating
position due to increasing competition from the mechanized sector, changing
market trends and increasing leather input costs. The objective of the Bannu
Leather Goods Service Center is to assist the industry convert from footwear
production to leather goods manufacture which is much more labor-intensive and
for which the Bannu industry appears to have comparative advantage.
Assistance to the industry would be in the form of a 7tulti-functional service
center which would re-train the labor force in appropriate skills; demonstrate
the proper set-up and management of a leather goods unit, assist in setting-up
individual workshops and provide the lead in developing a market strategy and
an effective marketing infrastructure.
Management Committee
To provide overall policy direction for the service center, a management
committee made up of three representatives from the Small Industries
Development Board and two representatives of the Bannu Leather and Shoe
Manufacturers' Association would be constituted. The management committee
will have the following powers and responsibilities:
1.  Approve the design of the service center especially with
regard to the following:
( i) equipment required for common facilities;
( ii) training program for skilled workers and
machine operators;
(iii) extension program for private small-scale
units;
( iv) product lines for commercial production;
( v) subcontracting arrangements between the
center and the private small-scale units;
and
( vi) marketing strategy for the center and the
small-scale private units involved in the
subcontracting scheme.
2. Approve the schedule of rates for services provided by the
center such as common facilities, training, product
designing, advisory services, etc., taking into account
reasonable cost recovery;



- 73 -                            ANNEX 12
Page 2
3. Monitor the overall performance of service center in
accordance with its objectives; and
4.  Approve the quarterly and annual reports of the service
center for submission to SIDB, the Government of
Pakistan and IDA.
Project Manager and Staff
The center would be managed by a competent and qualified project manager who
would be hired at prevailing industry rates to ensure attraction of suitable
candidates. The project manager will be responsible for the day-to-day
management of the center. In order to enable him to operate effectively, he
should enjoy adequate financial and administrative powers. He would be
assisted by qualified staff as detailed in the Organization Chart attached.
Project Advisors
The center would be provided advisory services in the following fields:-/
1.  Leather Goods;   The advisor will start up
the project with the center's national staff and prepare
the details of implementation of all aspects, coordinating
all functions of the center and participating in all of
its activities. He should have broad and extensive
experience in leather goods production and marketing;
2.  Sample Making:  The advisor will work with, demonstrate to,
and train national cadre on the proper methods and
techniques of sample making of the different lines of
leather goods including the operation of required
machines and tools, ia the center. He will also provide
extension services to 'the industry as required. He should
have extensive on-the-job experience in making samples of
different leather goods;
3.  Design and Pattern Making:  The advisor will work with,
demonstrate to, and train national cadre on pattern
making of different leather goods including all aspects of
design and preparation of patterns for production in the
center or by the industry. He should have extensive
experience in design and pattern making in leather goods
factories;
4.  Sewing Operation:  The advisor will work with, demonstrate
to, and train national cadre on different sewing
operations and technologies for leather goods including
the proper usage and regular maintenance of sewing
machines.
1/ Z7be ex-aqct rzambet o'f .qdvisors zrouId depend upon available expertise.



- 74 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
Timetable
Activity                               Tentative Starting Date
Site Preparation                       February 20, 1981
Tenders Invitation                     March 15, 1981
Award of Contract (Construction)       March 30, 1981
Procurement of Machinery                After signing IDA Credit



- 75 -                           ANNEX 13
Page 1
PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
IDBP - Small Industry Refinance Department
Interim Financing Requirement:
A. ASSUMPTIONS
1. Commitment Rate
%     Rs Million
1st Year     20          52
2nd Year     40         104
3rd Year     40         104
2. Disbursement Rate - 75% in the year of commitment and 25% in the following
year.
3. Average subloan maturity and commercial banks' repayment term to IDBP -
seven years including one year grace.
4. Repayment term of IDBP to GOP - 15 years including five years grace.
5. Average reimbursement lag is one month.
6. Interim financing will be provided to IDBP at 10% per annum (current SBP
rate).
7. SIRD Expenses
Rs Million
1        2         3        4
Staff                           0.48      0.55     0.74      0.85
Overheads                       0.32      0.44     0.66      0.80
Total Administrative Costs      0.80      0.99     1.40      1.65
Equipment                       0.20      0.11     0.10       -
TOTAL                           1.00      1.10     1.50      1.65
8.  IDBP fee - 1.5% of outstanding.



_.76-~                                ANNEX 13
Page 2
B.  A'LCULATIONS
1. Disbursements
Rs Million
1       2           3         4
1st Year       52      39      13          -         -
2nd Year      104      -       78         26         -
3rd Year      104      -        -         78        26
260     39      91        104        26
2. Repayments
1st Year       39       -       6.5        6.5       6.5
2nd Year       91       -       -         15.2      15.2
3rd Year      104       -       -         -         17.3
4th Year       26       -       -         -          -
-      6.5       21.7      39.0
3. Outstanding
Rs Million
1         2          3          4
Disbursements                                 39.0       91.0    104.0        26.0
Repayments                                      -         6.5      21.7       39.0
Net Increase                                  39.0       84.5      82.3      (13.0)
Cumulative                                    39.0      123.5    205.8       192.8
Average Outstanding                           19.5       81.3    164.7       199.3



77 _                              ANNEX 13
Page 3
4. IDBP's Income
Rs Million
1        2          3          4
Income                                       0.29       1.22      2.47       2.98
Expenses                                      1.00      1.10      1.50       1.65
Net Income before Financial Charges          (0.71)     0.12      0.97       1.33
5. Interim Financing Requirement
Reimbursement Lag (Float)                     3.25      3.79    (0.18)    (7.94)
Less:  Net Income (Loss)                     (0.71)     0.12      0.97       1.33
Annual Interim Financing Requirement          3.96      3.67    (1.15)    (9.27)
(Float)
Ctumulative Financing Requirement             3.96      7.63      6.48      (2.79)
Plus:  Interest Cost of Average Interim    0.20         0.58      0.71        _
Financing
Total Interim Financing Requirement           4.16      8.21      7.19        -
September 2, 1980



-78-                             ANNEX 14
PAKISTAN: SMALL MNDUSTRIES PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Technical Assistance
Credit Component           Component
Amount   Percentage   Amount    Percentage
IDA  FY81  January - March          -                      -
April   - June          0.3        1.1         0.2          2.5
0.3        1.1         0.2          2.5
FY82  July    - September    1.0                     0.2
October - December      1.5                    0.3
January - March         2.0                    0.4
April   - June          2.5                    0.3
7.0       27.0         1.2        30.0
FY83  July    - September    3.0                     0.4
October - December      3.5                    0.3
January - March         3.0                    0.3
April   - June          2.5                    0.2
12.0       46.1         1.2         30.0
FY84  July    - September    1.5                     0.3
October - December      1.5                    0.3
January - March         1.5                    0.3
April   - June          1.0                    0.2
5.5       21.2         1.1        27.5
FY85  July    - September    1.0                     0.2
October - December      0.2                    0.2
26.0      100.0         4.0       100.0
September 2, 1980



- 79                                ANNEX 15
PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
List of Documents Available in the Working File
A. Industrial Sector
1. GOP's Industrial Investment Schedule
2. The Industrial Sector - Working Paper
3. Five SSI Subsectors - Working Paper
4. UNIDO Study - Phase I - Statistical Tables on Five SSI Subsectors
B. Credit Component
1. State Bank of Pakistan - Special Small Loans Scheme (1972)
2. Organization, Staffing and Operations of the Commercial Banks -
Working Paper
3. Pakistan: Recent Economic Developments, IMF, 1979
4. Responses to IDA Questionnaire by Commercial Banks
C. Technical Assistance
1.  Appraisal of the Gujrat Woodworking Service Center
(by H. Helle - Consultant): August 1980
2. Appraisal of the Bannu Leather Goods Senrice Center
(by M. El-Khair - Consultant): August 1980
3. Technical Assistance Agencies for SSI in Pakistan - Working Paper
4. Responses to IDA Questionnaire by SICs
September 2, 1980



Of



EIF3].4Z                                                                         [l7                         L9K. J |. .    ..[
r~~~~~7                             77           L              -~h.iE       77"          77    E~s>i]  E'            LIL]          277. D 3
rI              37                                                    771                           *                              .D. .   2  7 3W-  II   ~-   
r= r]           -              ri                                      [ e  11* ]    .~,          _
I    I                           I                     {a  S3                          i                           1 1]II  I
7117~~|     ;sous i  717               [77                        71 7tn                     [77  e7ou11                 71 ||Znn|+iz2asnn|Lul1;]      
717                      [17 [17                    731  227                   77717                           - __  [
7327 733] 777771] 377        317777          7717       1121            7"  772717                          1 17
77']]~  77'[7217][2    E]71337737K   "[7]771  1"   77""   7737777772  7]'71]77
77.77r>g.






Z9Oz| - 4I.| |                                                                                                                                                       dM
'P.(I
~  S! 3 dvy                                                                          I SflWS3Odl _u  JO IAfl I Iu I     tiIuolOUOJI
I.OOi4*l    I      1w Q  |                                                                       [  jIfi    jnd^ 3
l 27777
o. S.~~~~j  0.         dA.Nd.3     ZIX 310O18   pOo d     A3S).. 9Aan33X 34Jo3                              WE'v ~   j IS) 3Aln3X 310 100                             i)PJn *ax0J              JO-,,DaoI
IdA3) BA.LflddS31          dS)dIf3XI03                        ASd  fOX   1H3                                     AS  Ajf3X   1030                                             (ASI 3AIJf3X I     AI
F IN 30U IS 3 H d
IH3VMV) '33I+iO OV3H A0 I8VHO NOIIVZINV98O
a311Wil3  NV' 3VIO31WWO3 Wiisnw
Jo3.OS Id S3IfSflRlI T1v4S     : SId



PAKISTAN: SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
GUJRAT WOOD WORKING SERVICE CENTER
Proposed Organization Structure
Board of Directors
Chief Project Officer            Adviser
_ Project Offic..Project Offic.                                          -  -  -  -    -  -  -  -  -             _-     Chief Accounts
Adviser           Extens/Design                                           Production                                                           Officer
3              ~~~~2 Saies Purch. Off.                      22Acs  st
Technolog F,d       Technolog Design                                Foremen             Supervisors                                   Off. Asst.           Accts. Asst.
28~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Foreman Train    _ Storekeeper            _    Carpenters  |_                                                      Steno
Skill Labor                                   HlpeDrivers
2
Clerks
Watchman
Gardener       |
Sweeper       |                             @
World Bank -22192



-83-                                                    CHART 4
PAKISTAN SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
BANNU LEATHER GOODS SERVICE CENTER
Proposed Organization Structure
I__ -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  --                       Project Dire ]
Assist. for       Assistant for      Assistant for
International Staff                                        Marketing         Production        Administration
Project Manager                                           Marketing         Cutting Sec.        Personnel
Officer            Officer            Officer
Sample Making Expert                                       Materian Pro-      Stitching Sec.     2 Accountants
curement Officer        Office.r
Sewing Operaton                                                          Pattern and Sample      2 Clerks
Expert                                                                Making Officer
Pattern Making                                                            Sub-contracting       2 Material
Expert                                                                    Officer          Storekeeper
1 Toolkeeper
L-      -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -   -  - _--_                    Supportintg Staff
4 Drivers          Electrician      Mechanic   3 Utility Men
World Bank - 22193






IBRD 15303
bL                                b'68                                                                  7'2-        U. S. S. R.       5
j        ,r   \.,   -HlNA
 .fv , > . _, ~~C H I N A
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT                                                           C H ITR :\ . 36--
Project oreas of service centers
*    Notional capital
*    Provincial capitals                                                       D
o    Selected major cities                                                                                          f ......o... tol
District boundories
.. _ _ Provincial boundaries                                                  PEshawA.
-._.. International boundaries                                        NOR;H  r                  ;
Rivers                                                              KOHAT  AMPRELIPORE EAWALPINDI
fJ       /     j      \    / i, Im/JRAT'-N 
J-SOUTH NBAIvNS L,      -      v     Go j        L..    -
1-   WAZIRJSTA    7      SAR GO   HA           SIALKOT
SM,. AIL        j SagLgot  tGJRANWALA ,                     32'-
.   . ^                                            .q.  A  y       Z  \      /      ''~~****  rg'>*. SHEEAPH.5R / 
e St      *            .     MIANWAL\'I     /  o  , aobadd0oloreX
DEMOCRATIC    REPUBLIC                 j/                                                       F Y !vANG PAIZALALtHORE
OF  AFGHANISTAN                  /  P15HIN
/                                            o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Petta  D.AA  SERA 
'\~f~>~  4,M'~  AEARRI                            M SLTAN 
*Nj7~Q .-.-.-- .;yKALAT ;rw;yj1 tJ BUGTI ....                                                                                                                 ,!.                                                        ,,_   !   I N I A
CHAGAI                                X.KACHHl''
\                  _BA. i 9~~Z   C--H-1t S FAiN8                 (iv ir
-                                             .    _   ,     / * ( ,NASIRA-D, =''- /'    RAHINYNR S  EAHAWALPUR
-28-             (                               ( )             ,   JC BAAD_i KAj
KHARAM                                                                                                    29-~~~~1   HA
_____   KHARAIL_:.SUKKUR_-                                                                                                      25
I RA  N                                                     /, LARKAN     A .
C__                        /              .               . ,  .1'ND
y      EHUZDAR                   OAHJ
04    MA K RA N   '^ /  K H U 2 D A R   r I   r                               K IL O M E T E R S   0   1 0 0   2 0 0   3 0 0
*-fWA8SHAI~%.                                   j                  MILES 0 I                           200
J.           ~~~SANGHAR
r        R                                             DADC)
.LAS BELAC  )             _ V    THAR PARKAR \              i          UA.N SS R
2--Arv4;abnn           SeG                                             Iv    Y-**.-                                          -Hn  t1 e   ,;
4                                        ARABI nh   .   1YDEAAD
d60rept.by_Xir  rw                     8                                 /YEMIRAN    ArFGAbi-rn S.,
SEPTEMBER 1980



