Document of
The World Bank    FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2967-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
February 24, 1981
f  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1          = Rs 9.90
Rs 1          = US$0.101
ACRONYMS
EPB       -    Export Promotion Bureau
IDBP      -    Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IPB       -    Investment Promotion Bureau
NCCC      -    National Credit Consultative Council
NDFC      -    National Development Finance Corporation
NWFP      -    North West Frontier Province
PBC       -    Pakistan Banking Council
PICIC     -    Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
PSIC      -    Punjab Small Industries Corporation
SBP       -    State Bank of Pakistan
SIC       -    Small Industries Corporation
SIW       -    Small Industries Wing
SSI       -    Small-Scale Industries
SSIC      -    Sind Small Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Pakistan:  July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks:        January 1 - December 31



PAKISTAN                FOR OFFIC'IAL USE ONLY
SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                      SDR 23.6 million (US$30 million equivalent).
Terms:                      Standard.
Beneficiaries:              Small-scale industries (SSI) which would receive
credit through commercial banks and extension
services through the small industries corporations
(SICs)--Punjab Small Industries Corporation, Small
Industries Development Board of NWFP, Sind Small
Industries Corporation, and Baluchistan Small
Industries Wing--and through the Export Promotion
Bureau.
Project Description:        The project would provide credit for the develop-
ment of small-scale industrial enterprises in
promising subsectors; assist the Punjab and NWFP
SICs in providing extension services in woodwork-
ing and leather goods; expand export promotion of
handicrafts and small industry products; aind initi-
ate project development activities in Baluchistan.
The project also includes subsector studies and
project preparation in support of the credit com-
ponent. The Credit would provide US$26 million
for onlending to the Industrial Development Bank
of Pakistan (IDBP) for refinancing loans by five
commercial banks, and US$4 million for the tech-
nical assistance components. Project risks relate
mainly to dealing with institutions that are new
to the Association. Monitoring by IDBP of the
credit component and technical assistance to the
small industries corporations should reduce these
risks.
Relending Terms:            US$4 million would be passed on by the Government
on IDA terms for the technical assistance components
to the agencies concerned; and USS26 million would
be onlent by the Government to IDBP for the credit
component at 4.25-5.5% interest p.a., depending on
subloan size, over a period of 15 years, including
five years' grace. IDBP would charge the commercial
banks 5.75-7% interest p.a. for up to 12 years,
including three years' grace, and the commercial
banks would lend to sub-borrowers for 3 to 10
years, including a maximum of two years' grace,
at an interest rate of not less than 11% p.a. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii1 -
Estimated Costs: 1/
Local   Foreign   Total
------US$ million------
Credit Component            43.0       11.0     54.0
Overseas Training for
Commercial Banks            -        0.2       0.2
Technical Assistance
Components
Gujrat Service Center        0.5        1.2       1.7
Bannu Service Center         0.5        1.0      1.5
Export Promotion             0.3        1.0       1.3
Subsector Studies            0.5         -       0.5
Baluchistan Project
Development                 -         0.1      0.1
45.0       15.0     60.0 2/
Financing Plan:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
-----US$ million------
IDA                         15.0      15.0     30.0
Commercial Banks             7.0        -       7.0
Private Sponsors            22.0        -      22.0
Government                   1.0        -       1.0
45.0      15.0     60.0
Estimated                                 IDA FY  FY81  FY82   FY83   FY84  FY85
Disbursements:                          --------------US$ million-------------
Annual               0.4   8.2    13.2   6.6    1.6
Cumulative           0.4   8.6    21.8  28.4   30.0
Rate of Return:              Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:            Pakistan Small Industries Project,
Report No. 3216a-PAK, dated February 20, 1981.
Map:                         15303
1/   Duties and taxes are negligible.
2/   Totals rounded.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation or- a proposed
development credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 23.6 million
(US$30 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Small
Industries Project. US$26 million of the credit would be made available to
sub-borrowers at not less than 11% p.a. interest through five commercial banks
and a refinancing arrangement by the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP), and US$4 million would be made available on IDA terms to various
agencies providing technical assistance, promotion and extension services to
small industries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 2860-PAK, dated April 15, 1980) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 21, 1980.
3.        Although budgetary and balance of payments problems have persisted,
the past three years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78, FY79 and FY80 averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth has been accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial
production well above the rate of population growth, currently averaLging 3%
p.a., and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by
11% in FY78, 20% in FY79, and 23% during FY80. Value added in agriculture
rose by 6% in FY80 following increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in FY78, and
in industry by 8.1% in FY80 following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2% in FY79.
This performance contrasts markedly with the economic stagnation of the early
and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods production
1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible.
4.        The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising
rural incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy
changes introduced by the Government have also contributed to the recovery.
5.        In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices. At the
same time inputs, particularly fertilizer, have been heavily subsidiized
1/   Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report No. P-2960-PAK (Fifth Education Vocational Training
Project) dated February 18, 1981.



(the Government has recently taken steps to reverse this policy, which is
now creating budgetary problems), and efforts have been made to improve the
fertilizer distribution system by expanding the marketing network and by ensur-
ing adequate supplies and timely delivery of fertilizer imports. A better
balance between nutrients has also been attained. In addition, the Government
has begun to address the deep-seated problems affecting productivity at the
farm level. A start has been made in improving extension services through
the adoption of the so-called training and visit system. Preliminary reforms
have been initiated to the agricultural research system in line with the find-
ings of a recent USAID/World Bank study. The Government has also accepted
and has begun to act on the main recommendations of a recently completed UNDP
study on irrigated agriculture, which emphasizes the need to improve the
efficiency of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distri-
butaries and better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand
the role of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesti-
cides, seeds, agricultural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened.
These initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the
problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
6.        Major changes have been made during the past three years in Govern-
ment policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural proces-
sing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional safe-
guards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
Government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, easier access to imported raw materials, concessionary
credit and income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted
to encourage private investment and exports. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement
in private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for rela-
tively smaller-scale private investment projects, though industrialists are
still hesitant to commit themselves to large-scale investments involving long
pay-back periods.
7.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public sector, which has been plagued
by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed of the man-
agement and organization of the public sector, and the performance of individ-
ual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these studies, the
Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the number of sector
holding corporations has been reduced, and boards of directors have been esta-
blished at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. In addition
to the denationalizations mentioned earlier, further public disinvestment is
being considered on a case-by-case basis. A mutual fund has been formed for
the sale of equity holdings in public sector enterprises to private investors.
8.        The higher level of economic activity during the past three years
and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes



- 3 -
and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues from 15% of GNP
in FY77 to 17% in FY80. Nevertheless, the budget has remained under strain as
expenditures have risen as rapidly as revenues. The Government's policies of
encouraging production and exports through subsidized inputs and export
rebates, and the political and social constraints to making substantial price
adjustments on a number of items of mass consumption, have inflated subsidies.
Rising debt service, following the expiration at the end of FY78 of the four-
year debt relief arrangement with member countries of the Pakistan Consortium,
and increased defense spending have contributed to the growth in non-develop-
ment expenditures. In addition, commitments under the ongoing public invest-
ment program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to further increases in
development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the increased revenues,
budget deficits remained around 3-4% of GNP.
9.         An improvement in the situation occurred during FY80.  The FY80
budget presentation in June 1979 included major new revenue measures which
yielded about Rs 4.7 billion. In addition, substantial increases were
announced in domestic prices of petroleum products, railway fares and ferti-
lizer prices during the year. The Government has also been making, a deter-
mined effort to restrain both development and non-development expenditures,
and supplementary allocations have generally been small. While post-budget
increases in import prices and other exogenous factors (including expenditure
on Afghan refugees) added to budget outlays, improved revenues and additional
external assistance from the IMF's Trust Fund and from Saudi Arabia limited
the domestically financed budget deficit to about Rs 6.3 billion in FY80,
less than 3% of GNP. A further slight improvement in the budget situation is
expected in FY81.
10.        Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years, although its share of world exports still remains below the level of
the early 1970s. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from
US$578 million in FY77 to over US$1.7 billion in FY80, have also greatly
assisted the external position. These increases have, however, been offset by
a rapid increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer, edible oil
and capital goods. The current account deficit was US$1,120 million or 4% of
GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in
current prices. The financing of these deficits has become more difficult
since program-type assistance from OPEC countries (which was substantial in
the mid-1970s) as well as net aid flows from Consortium sources have declined.
This situation is now expected to change as a result of Pakistan's recently
concluded agreement with the IMF for US$1.7 billion of EFF resources over
the next three years, signs that the aid community is becoming more ready to
increase aid commitments, and the further debt rescheduling agreement con-
cluded among members of the Pakistan Consortium in January 1981 (see below).
11.        The balance of payments presents the Pakistan Governmernt with its
most intractable problem. With imports roughly double the level of exports,
exports must rise at a substantially faster rate than imports simply to pre-
vent a worsening in the sizable foreign trade deficit--a task made even more
difficult by the sharp increase in the petroleum import bill. Secondly, fol-
lowing the termination of the 1974-78 rescheduling agreement, debt service
payments have increased sharply, though this will be alleviated by the recent
agreement of Consortium countries to reschedule 90% of debt service falling



due on concessional official credits over the 18-month period from mid-January
1981 to mid-July 1982. In these circumstances, Pakistan has been fortunate
that substantial workers' remittances have helped to reduceate the pressure on
the external account. However, foreign exchange reserves remain low and fur-
ther major efforts will be required by the Government to increase savings and
encourage production and exports.
12.       Thus, notwithstanding recent improvements in output and exports and
in the overall management of the economy, financial difficulties persist. To
a considerable extent these difficulties reflect continuing pressures on
resources, despite rapid output growth and the Government's efforts to res-
train public investment. These pressures have led to substantial imbalances
between savings and investments and between exports and imports, which have
been reflected in sizable budgetary and balance of payments deficits. Further
measures appear essential if these and other basic issues limiting economic
growth in the longer term are to be adequately addressed. These issues
include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the
structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying
behind continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social
service expenditures; the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises;
and the problems of public resource mobilization.
13.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite the
recent recovery in output, a number of fundamental factors continue to limit
agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by the
resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth has
not been commensurate with the substantial increases in inputs, especially
water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still exists for the
additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears essential to give
greater priority to evolving complementary policies and programs which would
have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The importance of increas-
ing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in the Government and a
beginning has been made in addressing this problem. Nevertheless, support for
programs to strengthen research, extension, water management and other pro-
grams in the agriculture and water sectors needs to be intensified, while
fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accompanied by necessary adjust-
ments in output and consumer prices.
14.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of
value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency,
excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manu-
facturing growth generally has been affected by the unsatisfactory performance
of public sector enterprises. While there has recently been a sharp increase
in private investment sanctions, it remains to be seen whether these will lead
to a substantial improvement in actual capital expenditures. To maintain the
increased momentum in the industrial sector will require, among other things,
an adequate supply of local and foreign financing both for investments and



-5-
current inputs. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Govern-
ment's incentive system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a
comparative advantage; more analysis is needed to determine levels of effec-
tive protection for formulating an appropriate industrial development strategy
for the 1980s. The recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by
improvements in labor-management relations and by further measures to rehabi-
litate the textile industry, to improve the performance of the public sector
and to increase exports.
15.       The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and develooment of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by the
development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources. At the same time,
activity in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through
joint ventures with foreign private companies. Domestic programs for explora-
tion and development of mineral fuels, as well as other energy solarces, hold
out the hope of a considerable improvement in Pakistan's balance of payments
outlook in the late 1980s. However, a number of issues relating to such mat-
ters as energy planning, pricing and organization will need to be addressed
if this potential is to be realized.
16.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic
environment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid
population growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to
maintain education and health programs at their current inadequate standards.
However, without higher literacy rates, improved health facilities and a
reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can
be much reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and
undue emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities.
High priority needs therefore to be given not only to increased allocations
for family planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection
to serve the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the
substantial migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years
has to some extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population
growth, this clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer t:o the situa-
tion in the long run. The Government has recently shown more awareness of
this problem; a new population program has been adopted and is in the initial
stages of implementation.
17.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments a
fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the eco-
nomy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
12% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little further improvement over the past few years. The con-
tinuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending and



encourage private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between
investment and savings flows, while increased opportunities for private
investment should attract resources from less productive uses. At the same
time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining private con-
sumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty increases on
non-essential imports. While the Government has made several price increases
in the past 12 months or so, further adjustments will directly reduce the
budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on development spending
and measures to further improve revenues through improvements in tax adminis-
tration and tax and rate increases, for example, property taxes, domestic
water rates and irrigation water charges, are also needed.
18.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizer would
help to moderate import growth considerably.
19.       Total external public debt outstanding at the end of FY80 amounted
to about US$8.7 billion, of which US$5.0 billion was due to bilateral members
of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.1 billion to OPEC, US$1.5 billion to multi-
lateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders.
Contractual debt service to multilateral and bilateral aid agencies rose from
US$313 million in FY73 to US$397 million in FY78, although the burden of these
payments was eased to US$200 and US$261 million, respectively, as a result of
debt relief arrangements. Following the termination of these arrangements,
debt service payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79. Contrac-
tual payments in FY80 were about US$650 million and are projected to be consid-
erably more in subsequent years, although there will be some alleviation in
FY81 and FY82 as a result of the debt rescheduling agreed recently by Consor-
tium countries. As a proportion of exports, non-factor service payments and
workers' remittances, service on all external debt remained at about 15% in
FY80. Pakistan's debt to the Bank and IDA at the end of FY80 was about 13% of
its external public indebtedness. The share of the Bank Group in total debt
service is now about 10%.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
20.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2.0 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY80, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for



-7-
industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
21.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
22.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.
23.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has comprised three large fertilizer plants. Projects
are envisaged for further increasing domestic fertilizer capacity, as well as
for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 13 Pakistan enterprises
for a total of US$70.2 million, of which US$60.7 million was by Way of loans
and US$9.5 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II).
About US$35.9 million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted by IFC
include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in texctiles and one
each in cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing, plastics, wood processing
and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.
24.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and commuanications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
25.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. A dialogue on key energy policy
issues has been initiated. These efforts are assisting in the efficient



development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy resources. In the
field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked with the municipal
authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major cities, and following UNDP
and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts a project is now under prepera-
tion for Lahore. A second water supply project in Lahore is currently under
implementation. Four IDA credits for education, totalling US$37.5 million,
have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and
agricultural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and agricul-
tural extension agents.
26.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of December 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Credit and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects
have experienced delays due to government budgetary constraints and to slow-
ness in appointment of consultants. The Government has recently increased the
rates charged by some public utilities to improve their financial position.
Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to migration to
the Middle East, has been a problem in the case of some projects.
27.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
agricultural research, oil and gas development, water management and irrigation
and flood rehabilitation. Pakistan continues to have domestic resource
constraints for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Government to
finance agricultural and other high-priority projects which have a low foreign
exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific cases, as
in the one now proposed, is justified.
28.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Industrial Sector
29.       After agriculture, manufacturing is the largest sector, contributing
about 15% of GDP and accounting for about 13-15% of employment in the 1970s.
During the first half of the 1960s, industrial value added grew in real terms
at about 15% p.a. This, however, fell to about 8% p.a. in the second half
of the 1960s, due to a number of external and internal factors: the 1965
war with India, deterioration of the investment climate, uncertain political
conditions, tight credit policies and erratic raw material supplies. This
trend continued into the first half of the 1970s with industrial employment
growing at only 2% p.a. (compared to 3% in the 1960s), due to adverse political
and economic policies and events, particularly the separation of the East
Wing resulting in loss of supply and markets, the oil price increase of 1973
and subsequent world recession of 1974/75, Government nationalization and
takeover of 31 major manufacturing enterprises, and labor unrest. In the
last few years, as a result of a more favorable economic climate, and various



- 9 -
incentives and policy measures by the Government, private industrial invest-
ment has revived and industrial output as well as exports have grown at a
higher rate. While cotton textiles continue to dominate manufact-ured exports,
the share of other products such as carpets, surgical instruments, leather and
leather goods has been increasing. There are still major problems in the
sector, the most important of these being low productivity, management problems
and excess labor force in public sector corporations, which the Government is
currently addressing.
Characteristics and Role of Small-Scale Industry (SSI)
30.       SSI is defined by the Government as units with fixed assets, exclud-
ing land, of less than Rs 3 million (US$303,000 equivalent) valued at histor-
ical cost. Although SSI accounts for only 25% of industrial output, it employs
about 85% of the industrial workforce. The share of SSI in total exports has
been increasing from an estimated 12% in FY75 to about 20% in FY79; its share
of manufactured exports was 47% in FY79. In recent years, the SSI sector
appears to have expanded more rapidly than the large and medium-scale private
manufacturing sector as indicated by higher rates of investment. Small firms
seem to have been less affected by the past political and econom,ic uncertain-
ties than large and medium-sized firms. Some industries are dominated by
small-scale units, e.g., sports goods, surgical instruments, wooden furniture
and carpets.
31.       Based on data from the first phase of a UNIDO-assisted study which
was undertaken in 1978/79 as part of proiect preparation, about 80% of SSI
units employ less than 10 people and have an average investment of about
US$14,000. SSIs are more labor-intensive than large-scale units; investment
cost per job is US$1,600, compared with US$21,000 for a sample of large-scale
private sector projects financed by PICIC during the last two years. The
average capital-output ratio of SSIs was 0.6 compared with 1.0 t:o 1.5 for
large-scale units. The low use of capital by SSIs is partly due to the simple
technology used. It is also due to their poor access to institutional credit
markets, lack of know-how in dealings with financial institutions and reluc-
tance by banks to lend to them due to higher costs and risks. About 60% of
the units have no bank accounts and about 80% have never approached a financial
institution. Almost all SSI units claimed to have received very little tech-
nical assistance from existing agencies. Most SSI units faced raw material
supply and market/marketing problems. However, SSIs do have access to cheap
labor, real wage costs being low due to lack of unionization and exemption
from legislatively required social benefits.
32.       In general, the Government's industrial policies are sector rather
than scale-based. Nevertheless, certain incentives have been introduced for
SSI, such as lower interest rates on loans, prior to 1978, and quicker clear-
ance procedures on investment license applications. However, these measures
seem to have been marginal in improving the relative attractiveness of SSI;
more important have been the exemptions from labor laws, minimum wage legis-
lation, various taxes and other administrative requirements. On the other
hand, during the 1960s when generous incentives were provided to private
industry, there was a large element of de facto discrimination against SSI.
The import-control system tended to allocate import licenses and grant duty
exemptions on imported equipment and materials to large enterprises.



- 10 -
Financing of Small Industry
33.       Since 1972, the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) has been allocating
credit to small business and industry by means of mandatory targets for commer-
cial banks. The lending target, which is expressed in terms of the net incre-
ment in small loans disbursed and outstanding as of the end of each fiscal
year, consists of: (i) loans under the SBP Small Loans Scheme; (ii) the SIC
schemes; and (iii) general lending by the banks to small units. The targets
are monitored weekly and shortfalls are penalized by means of interest-free
deposits with SBP for the amount of the shortfall until the gap is closed.
During FY73-79, actual loans failed to meet the mandatory targets in four of
the seven years due to overall credit ceilings imposed by the National Credit
Consultative Council (NCCC), which sets the policies for overall monetary and
credit expansion. Thus, while total small loans increased from Rs 419 million
in FY73 to Rs 816 million in FY79 with an average growth rate of 14% p.a.,
loans to commerce and industry increased by 16% during the same period. Loans
also have gone to commerce rather than industry and for working capital rather
than fixed investment. SBP has now begun to set separate lending targets for
industry and commerce, as well as for fixed and working capital.
34.       SBP Small Loans Scheme.  This scheme defines small loans as:  (i) all
loans irrespective of amount provided to industrial units with fixed assets,
excluding land and buildings, whose original investment value does not exceed
Rs 3.0 million; and (ii) any loan up to Rs 100,000 provided to small business-
men and firms. The scheme was intended to expedite the processing of loan
applications and to emphasize the need to increase lending to SSI units. For
a new business or industry, a loan was provided to meet initial investment
requirements on the guarantee of two creditworthy parties acceptable to the
lending bank. However, for established customers collateral requirements
were relaxed.
35.       Credit Guarantee Scheme (CGS).  To encourage the commercial banks
to lend under the Small Loans Scheme, SBP created in 1972 a CGS with an initial
amount of Rs 20 million, whereby credit guarantees up to 50% of losses would
be provided. The scheme, however, is not functioning effectively. To date,
93 claims have been filed, but none paid out. As a result, the commercial
banks do not rely on the CGS. SBP is working with the banks to improve its
CGS. The Association has prepared manuals for improved procedures of credit
guarantee schemes.
36.       The SIC Scheme.  Since the 1960s, the small industry corporations
(SICs) have had special consortium schemes for the financing of SSI units
either by commercial banks or the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP). The two schemes were basically similar, except that the commercial
banks provided local currency, while IDBP provided foreign currency financing.
The SICs agreed to share 50% of any loss on loans made by the commercial banks
and 75% on loans made by the IDBP. The SICs' functions were to promote and
appraise the projects, while the commercial banks/IDBP were responsible for
determining creditworthiness, and for disbursements and collections. Loan
decisions were vested in a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) composed of
representatives from the provincial government, the SIC and the bank concerned.
In practice, loan processing has been lengthy (sometimes taking 10-12 months)
and repayments poor (about 30% of loans are in arrears). Responsibilities for



- 11 -
appraisal and supervision were not clearly allocated between the banks and the
SICs and disagreements soon developed. Given the dissatisfaction on the part
of all parties with these consortium arrangements, the proposed Credit adopts
a clear division of labor under which the commercial banks would be responsible
for project appraisal, supervision and collections, and the SICs for promotion
and extension services.
Technical Assistance for SSI
37.       Technical assistance for SSI is primarily a provincial government
responsibility assigned to semi-autonomous agencies: the Punjab Small Industry
Corporation (PSIC), the Sind Small Industry Corporation (SSIC), the Small
Industry Development Board (SIDB) of the North West Frontier Province (NWFP),
and the Small Industry Wing (SIW) of the Department of Commerce and Industry
of Baluchistan. 1/ The SICs, however, perceive their role to be broader,
encompassing all aspects of small industry development, and are particularly
inclined to be involved in financing, which has resulted in less attention
being devoted to promotion, technical assistance and extension services.
Several national agencies are also involved in assisting SSI in specific
fields such as technology research and development, preparation of financial
and economic studies and surveys, export market development, etc.
38.       Organization of SICs.  The SICs used to be area offices of the
West Pakistan Small Industry Corporation (WPSIC) which was established in
1965 and based in Lahore. In 1972, WPSIC was split into four SICs. Since
most of the staff, projects and activities of WPSIC were concentrated in
the Punjab, PSIC inherited most of them. The other SICs have been expanding
following the PSIC or WPSIC model. Thus their policies, organizational
structure and projects are similar. Combined personnel strength of the SICs
is 3,385, of whom 350 are considered professional staff. About 37% of the
professional staff are based at their respective headquarters. For institu-
tions whose main function is to provide technical services to SSI units in
the field, the SICs have relatively too many non-professional staff and too
many professionals based at headquarters.
39.       Activities.  The main programs and projects of the SICs consist
of: (a) Industrial Estates. The SICs currently administer 16 estates;
two of these estates in the Punjab were assisted by an IDA Credit of US$6.5
million in FY63. Some of these estates are not being fully utilized, and the
proposed Credit will be available to assist SSIs to establish units on them.
(b) Service Centers. There are 19 service centers, with the larger ones
located in the Punjab. The centers provide common facilities and equipment
that small units cannot afford or do not need full-time in their own shops;
skills training based on formal curricula; and advisory services through
demonstration in the centers or consultancy in SSI workshops. Aside from
these promotional services, the centers are engaged in limited amounts of
commercial production. (c) Handicraft and Carpet Centers. This is the
1/   Collectively referred to as the SICs.



- 12 -
largest program in terms of number of centers (147) and reaches into the rural
areas. About 70 handicraft centers are involved in embroidery, marblecraft,
mat-making, knitting, handlooms, etc. While these centers are designed to
impart training, some have retained their graduates on a piece-rate basis and
have become partly production centers. (d) Handicraft Marketing. The SICs
market handicrafts through retail outlets mainly for the tourist trade and the
domestic market. In FY79, the outlets sold over Rs 5 million worth of goods.
While these stores are intended to provide an outlet for goods produced by
private craftsmen and small units, they presently also sell the output of the
training centers.
40.       To date, the SIC approach has concentrated on the construction and
management of physical facilities without sufficient interaction with the
adjacent private sector units. The underlying shortcoming has been a lack
of clear definition of target groups and their technical assistance needs.
The proposed project includes components for the SICs which are designed to
develop an effective technical assistance program, extension services and
training in selected subsectors. The services and types of facilities could
later be replicated for other subsectors and on a broader regional basis.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Industries,
the SICs and the commercial banks, and appraised in May/June 1980. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in January 1981. The Pakistan delegation was
led by Mr. Aftab Ahmad, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Industries. A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3216a-PAK, dated February 20, 1981) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Attached as Annex III
is a Supplementary Project Data Sheet.
objective and Scope
42.       The project seeks to meet the following objectives:  (i) encourage
the development of SSI units in promising subsectors by providing funds for
term lending through IDBP and the commercial banks; (ii) assist in orient-
ing the commercial banks towards a longer-term project appraisal approach in
their SSI lending; (iii) provide specific extension services to woodworking
and leather goods enterprises; (iv) support export promotion of selected
handicrafts and SSI products; and (v) initiate project development exercises
in Baluchistan.
43.       The project would help to streamline the roles of the various
agencies involved in SSI development. Through its proposed institutional
arrangements for credit and for subsector-specific technical assistance,
it would encourage the SICs to concentrate on technical assistance tasks.



- 13 -
44.       The project would be national in scope and would consist: of two
main parts, each with its components:
(a) Credit Component
(i) A line of credit to be onlent to IDBP for refinancing
of subloans by five commercial banks according to
eligibility criteria and procedures agreed between
the Association, the Government, IDBP, and the
commercial banks;
(ii) training of commercial bank officers in appraisal
methodology of SSI fixed investment projects; and
(iii) monitoring and ex-post evaluation systems.
(b) Technical Assistance
(i) Construction and equipping of a service center in
Gujrat to assist the woodworking industry improve
its technology and productivity;
(ii) establishment of a service center in Bannu to
assist SSI enterprises in converting from footwear
to leather goods manufacture;
(iii) export promotion of selected handicrafts by the SSIC
and manufactured products by the Export Promotion
Bureau;
(iv) assistance to the SIW of Baluchistan in practical
project identification and preparation of immediate
opportunities in the province;
(v) creation of a fund within IDBP to finance the
preparation of subsector studies, as well as project
preparation for subloans under the credit component;
and
(vi)  monitoring and ex-post evaluations of the two service
centers to be financed under the Credit.
Credit and Institutional Arrangements
45.       The credit component would be implemented by the IDBP and five
commercial banks, namely: Allied Bank of Pakistan Limited, Habib Bank Limited,
Muslim Commercial Bank Limited, National Bank of Pakistan, and United Bank
Limited. The commercial banks would be responsible for sub-project appraisal,
subloan approval and disbursement, and for project supervision and subloan
administration and would bear the full credit risk. IDBP would be responsible
for subloan refinancing, and monitoring and reviewing the credit component.
The commercial banks already have small industry departments in their Karachi
head offices since they have ongoing small industry loan schemes.



- 14 -
These operations involve, however, mainly short-term credits and rollover of
working capital, and are based primarily on collateral and creditworthiness
criteria. Within the present small loans departments, the banks would be
required to create special small industries loan divisions which would be
responsible for subloans under the Credit. US$0.15 million has been earmarked
to finance training of the key officers of each bank in project appraisal and
supervision methodology. The Government would prepare detailed training
proposals, acceptable to the Association, by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.04 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Eligibility Criteria for Subloans
46.       Eligibility Criteria.  In line with the objectives of the Credit
to expand output and employment, criteria directly related to production-
oriented loans would be adopted for the commercial banks' subproject financing,
namely:
(a) units should have fixed assets not exceeding Rs 3 million
as defined by the SBP;
(b) subloans would assist the setting up of new or expansion
of existing units in the industrial sector, including
industrial services;
(c) working capital financing would be provided only when
attached to a fixed investment loan, and only for the
permanent working capital portion of a given subproject,
such as raw materials and spare parts;
(d) a minimum of 30% of subproject costs should be provided
by the sponsor in the form of equity;
(e) subprojects should be labor-intensive with fixed costs
per job generally not exceeding Rs 60,000 equivalent; and
(f) at least 50% of the overall credit should be allocated
to subloans of less than Rs 800,000.
Although the primary focus of the project would be the five subsectors studied
by UNIDO (textiles/garments, surgical goods, leather goods, sports goods and
light engineering), eligibility for credit purposes would not be confined to
these product groups. Other subsectors that appear to warrant support are
agro-industries, small brickmaking units, woodworking/furniture units, and
carpet producers. The commercial banks would apply economical, financial
and technical appraisal standards and procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Terms and Conditions
47.       Subloans would bear an interest rate of not less than 11%, the
current rate fixed by the Government for all long-term rupee lending. Since
the current annual inflation rate is estimated at around 10% and projected to
remain at this level over the next 2-3 years, this would entail a positive



- 15 -
real lending rate. The Government would carry out periodic reviews of the
adequacy of the lending rate for SSI projects and, if necessary, make adjust-
ments in order to maintain a positive relending rate under the Credlit. It
would also increase the lending rates for SSI subprojects if the general level
of interest in the country is raised (Section 3.05 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The spreads and onlending terms under the Credit would be
as follows:
Subloans Less Than  Subloans at and Above
Rs 800,000            Rs 800,000
(  )
Government onlending rate to IDBP           4.25                  5.5
IDBP Spread                                  1.5                  1.5
Charge to Commercial Banks                   5.75                 7.0
Commercial Banks' Spread                    5.25                  4.0
Lending Rate to SSI Units                   11.0                 11.0
48.       The Government would carry the exchange risk without charging a
special fee.  IDBP would repay the Government on a fixed schedule, payable
over 15 years, including 5 years' grace. The commercial banks would lend to
sub-borrowers for periods of 3 to 10 years, including up to 24 months' grace,
and would repay IDBP on a fixed schedule of 12 years inclusive of 3 years'
grace. In order to provide sufficient incentive to the banks to develop the
smaller SSI units, the banks would (as indicated above) be allowedl a differ-
ential spread of 5.25% for subloans of less than Rs 800,000 and 4%' for those
at and above Rs 800,000. All subloans at and above Rs 800,000 would be
reviewed by the Association prior to authorization for disbursement. For
subloans of less than Rs 800,000, the Association's advance approval would not
be needed, but the banks would be required to submit a list of projects to
IDBP with sufficient details as a basis for IDBP's refinancing of the subloans.
IDBP would apply review procedures and criteria for subproject appraisal, and
approve and finance subloans on terms and conditions, all of which shall be
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Technical Assistance Components
49.       Gujrat Woodworking Service Center.  The center would be a project
of PSIC, but would operate independently with its own Management Committee,
on which the Gujrat Furniture Makers Association would be represented. The
objective of the service center would be to assist the wooden furniture
industry in Gujrat and surrounding areas in converting its present traditional
technology of solid wood and custom designs to utilizing lower cost wood-based
materials and standardized designs in order to expand its market and improve
its long-term prospects. Gujrat is one of the traditional centers for wooden
furniture manufacture, with an estimated 500 units employing about 2,500
workers. The center would provide: extension services to individual enter-
prises to guide them in technology improvements; common facilities for
specialized equipment and processes; training of machine operators; and
standardized designs of straight-line furniture. The center would also be
engaged in a limited amount of commercial production in order to demonstrate
technology and production methods. Income from the commercial operation would
be used to subsidize the promotional aspects. The center would cost about



- 16 -
US$1.73 million, of which the proposed Credit would finance US$0.66 million
for imported equipment, US$0.50 million for 50 man-months of advisors, and
US$0.07 million for a monitoring and evaluation system, for a total of US$1.23
million.
50.       Bannu Leather Goods Service Center.  This center would be a project
of the Small Industries Development Board of NWFP and would also operate with
its own Management Committee, which would include representatives of the Bannu
Leather and Shoe Manufacturers Association (BLSMA). The objective of the
service center would be to assist the leather footwear industry in Bannu
and surrounding areas in converting from leather footwear to leather goods
manufacture. In Bannu, there is a concentration of about 600 small units (500
of which are members of BLSMA) making leather sandals. The industry uses
crude production methods, and output per worker is about one-tenth of that of
his counterpart in the more organized units in Pakistan. The units plan to
gradually move out of footwear and into leather goods manufacture which is
still a labor-intensive industry. The center would assist the industry
by providing training/retraining of the labor force in appropriate skills;
demonstrating the proper set-up and management of a leather goods unit;
setting up individual workshops; and in developing market strategies and
effective marketing channels for the domestic urban market and for exports.
The center would establish a subcontracting scheme with the individual units
by which it would develop the market for leather goods and, at the same time,
provide in-plant technical assistance at the production end. The center would
cost about US$1.47 million; the proposed Credit would finance US$1.02 million,
of which US$0.22 million would be for imported equipment, US$0.05 million
for imported spares and raw materials, US$0.60 million for 60 man-months of
advisors, US$0.08 million for overseas training of center and industry can-
didates, and US$0.07 million for a monitoring and evaluation system.
51.       Export Promotion.  With assistance from marketing and design con-
sultants, this component would be implemented by two institutions, the Export
Promotion Bureau (EPB) for manufactured exports, and the Sind Small Industries
Corporation (SSIC) for handicraft exports. The component is intended to
expand (with some modifications) the ongoing activities of the EPB. It would
carry out practical product adaptation exercises for selected handicrafts and
SSI manufactures on a full-cycle basis, starting from product identification,
pinpointing of suppliers, and product design/redesign, to buyer matching and
holding of specific marketing events. Private exporter associations would be
involved throughout these exercises. Tentatively, the following products have
been identified: for SSIC, onyx (marble) products, brass and copperware,
embroidery and handloom goods, wood and lacquercraft; for EPB, garments,
surgical instruments, leather goods, sports goods and processed food. Since
EPB has had effective export promotion activities mainly in the EEC, this
component would concentrate on the North American market. The foreign exchange
cost of advisors and marketing events, estimated at US$50,000 per product
line, or US$500,000 for SSIC and US$500,000 for EPB, would be financed out of
the proposed Credit.
52.       Project Development for Baluchistan.  Since Baluchistan is the
least developed of the provinces, special assistance would be provided to
the Small Industry Wing of the Department of Commerce and Industry in



- 17 -
Baluchistan for project development work in specific subsectors. Credit funds
would be used to finance a team of three or four subsector specialists to
identify and prepare 5-10 projects using Baluchistan's main resources: animal
skins, fruit and vegetables, onyx, and wool, and taking into account the
present production and market structures. Small-scale projects would be
financed under the proposed Credit; larger ones would be promoted f-or financ-
ing by IDBP and PICIC. This component would cost about US$110,000,, of which
the foreign exchange cost of some US$100,000 (about 10 man-months of special-
ists) would be financed out of the Credit.
53.       Fund for Subsector Studies and Project Preparation.  This component
would provide a Fund within IDBP to finance the preparation of subsector
studies and specific project proposals for SSI units. The subsector studies
would be used to improve SSI lending and technical services by moving from a
general to a subsector-specific approach. The project preparation facility
would enable the SICs to assist sub-borrowers prepare their projects for
submission to, and appraisal by, the banks. Each subsector study would be
awarded by contract, and each contract (including terms of reference) would
need prior approval from the Association. For project preparation, proce-
dures and a schedule of fees would be agreed with the Association and reim-
bursement made periodically (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Fund is estimated at US$0.50 million, or 2% of the credit
component, to be allocated equally between the two sub-components.
Project Administration
54.       Cost and Financing.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
US$60 million. 1/ The foreign exchange cost is estimated at US$15 million,
or 25% of total costs. The Credit of SDR 23.6 million (US$30 million equiva-
lent) would finance the foreign exchange costs of the project and about US$15
million of the local costs, or about 50% of total costs. The credit component
would generate total investments of about US$55 million, of which US$26
million would be from IDA, US$7 million from the commercial banks and US$22
million from sponsors' equity. Total cost of the technical assistance compo-
nent is about US$5.3 million, of which IDA would finance US$4 million, the
Government US$1 million and private sector associations US$0.3 miLlion. The
cost of consultants' services is estimated at US$10,000 per manmonth for
expatriates and US$3,000 per manmonth for local consultants.
55.       Procurement.  Under the credit component, goods and services costing
US$20,000 equivalent or more per item or US$50,000 equivalent or more per
contract would be procured through international shopping (limited interna-
tional tendering) on the basis of at least three competitive quotations; for
contracts of goods and services with single items costing less than US$20,000
or combined items costing less than US$50,000 equivalent, the commercial bank
would ensure and certify that these are reasonably priced and suitable to the
requirements of the investment project (Section 2.04(a) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). For subloans under the Credit, the banks would be
required to maintain records of procurement, and to summarize the offers and
1/   Duties and taxes are negligible.



- 18 -
awards when presenting the larger subloans to IPBD/the Association for approval
(Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Imported machinery
and equipment for the two service centers would be procured through interna-
tional shopping on the basis of at least three competitive price quotations
(Section 2.04(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
56.       Disbursements.  In view of the large number of subprojects involved
and the small subloan sizes, the normal DFC procedure of disbursing against
expenditures on individual subproject accounts would be inappropriate.
Accordingly, all disbursements for foreign or local expenditures made by the
commercial banks would be financed equally up to 80% of subloan amounts.
Disbursements for permanent working capital and for the smaller subloans
(below Rs 800,000) would be made against certified statements of expenditure.
Reimbursements to the commercial banks out of Credit proceeds would be limited
to expenditures made by the sub-borrower not more than 120 days prior to the
Association's receipt of IDBP's request for reimbursement. To assist IDBP's
refinancing of subprojects, the Government would create a special start-up
fund of Rs 10 million to be made available as a line of credit to IDBP
(Section 3.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). For the Gujrat
and Bannu Service Centers, disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% for
imported equipment and materials; consultants' services; overseas training;
and costs of setting up a detailed monitoring and evaluation system. Disburse-
ments for locally manufactured goods would be made at the rate of 100% of
ex-factory cost, and 75% of imported goods procured locally. For the export
promotion component, disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of
consultants' services and foreign exchange costs of marketing events.
Withdrawal applications, which would be fully documented, would be submitted
directly to the Association by the implementing agencies. Before withdrawals
can be made in respect of payments for expenditures under the credit component,
at least two participating banks would each: (i) have to expand and adequately
staff its small loans division; (ii) sign a Participation Agreement with IDBP;
and (iii) approve a statement of operating policies and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
57.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  In order to monitor the utilization of
the Credit, particularly the subsector distribution, regional diversification,
and relative speed and strength of appraisal processing by the individual banks,
the Association would design monitoring/evaluation check-sheets which would be
completed by each bank semi-annually. Since the service centers component is
a relatively new area for the Bank Group, comprehensive in-depth monitoring
and post-evaluation systems would be designed and carried out. The systems
would survey and analyze the target groups in order to define the present
state of the industry in relation to the objectives and functions of the
service centers, e.g., appropriateness of technology in terms of productivity
and factor substitutions, organizational and managerial systems, worker skills
and labor productivity. At the end of each project year, and more comprehen-
sively at the end of the fourth year, the same study would be carried out in
order to compare the industry before and after the establishment of the
centers. An amount of US$0.07 million has been allocated under each service
center for this purpose.



- 19 -
Justification, Benefits and Risks
5R.       Project Benefits.  The SSI sector has significant employment-
generation effects, export growth potential, and income redistribution effects.
The project would aid the growth of the SSI sector by increased credit,
technical assistance and extension services to promising enterprises. About
475 subprojects would be financed under the project with total costs, includ-
ing sponsors' equity, of about US$55 million. The project would increase the
involvement of commercial banks in longer-term and more development-oriented
lending. The commercial banks would be encouraged to concentrate their lending
on the smaller-sized projects through differential spreads. Direct employment
that would be generated is estimated to be about 13,000 full-time jobs, with
investment costs per job (excluding land costs) of about US$3,500 on average.
Many SSIs have significant forward and backward linkages and indirect employ-
ment benefits are expected, though these are difficult to assess. Export
revenue benefits would result from assistance to export-oriented SSIs such
as surgical instruments and sports goods. Support for the export promotion
activities of SSIC and EPB would also increase export earnings by SSI. The
proposed service centers would improve the long-term prospects of their target
groups by assisting them to upgrade their technology and adapt to changing
markets. Industry workers would be trained in more efficient methods to
improve their productivity. The component for project development in
Baluchistan would encourage growth of SSIs in this underdeveloped province,
with consequent economic benefits. Funds for subsector studies are expected
to provide guidance for further ways to improve lending and technical assis-
tance for SSIs.
59.       Risks.  This is the first project of its kind in Pakistan.  Although
the commercial banks are already involved in long-term lending to SSIs, the
proposed institutional arrangements are new and may need time to become fully
established. The IDBP refinance and review arrangements should help ensure
project success, and the relationship between IDBP and the commercial banks
would be a critical element in effective project execution.
60.         The Government is considering proposals for the introduction of
interest-free or profit and loss sharing banking in Pakistan. It: is cognizant
of the complex issues involved, and numerous seminars have been held to discuss
proposals on how to implement a system that would be practical and equitable.
Given the difficulties, it seems likely that interest-free banking will be
introduced extremely gradually and in parallel with conventional banking. The
Government has previously assured the Bank that foreign loans and credits
would not be affected by any future Government measures. Thus, specialized
development banks like IDBP would not be directly affected. Should the
Goverrnment move towards abolishing interest charges on rupee denominated
loans, the recovery of subloans by commercial banks could be affected.
However, the Government has indicated that other fees or charges would be
introduced to substitute for interest.
61.       The risks inherent in the two service centers are that they may
not adequately meet the needs of the private sector, they may not be cost-
effective, and the local counterparts may not be readily trained to take
over the project once the advisors complete their assignments. By inclusion
of private sector representatives on the Management Committees, these risks



- 20 -
would be reduced. Both centers have been designed to utilize the most appro-
priate machinery and equipment; expertise in Pakistan is improving and, in the
case of the Gujrat Center, trained service personnel could be hired from the
existing Peshawar Woodwork Center. The monitoring arrangements should help to
ensure that problems are identified at an early stage and corrective action
taken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association, the draft Project Agreements between the
Association and the provinces of Baluchistan, Punjab, North West Frontier
and Sind, respectively, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include: (a) execution
of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and IDBP on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 6.01(b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); and (b) execution of Participation Agreements,
satisfactory to the Association, by at least two participating banks, and
approval by the Board of Directors of each such bank. of a statement of
operating policies and procedures acceptable to the Association (Section
6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI- RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 24, 1981



- 21-                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
pAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AkCtS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)               PAKISTAN                           - MDST RECENT ESTISHAT)-
TOTAL           803.9                               MOST RECENT         LOW INCOHE         MIDDLE INCOtE
AGRICULTURAL    253.0             1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      AsIA & PACIFIC      ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PEE CAPITA (05$)                60.0       130.0    270.0              212.4             1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    61.Of      98.0/1  172.0              166.0              842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    45.9       60.4      77.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1      24.9     27.4               20.8               39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   139.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                    332.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                     57.0        75.0      96.0             193.2              376. 1
PER SQ. EH. AGRICULTURAI LAND   201.0     249.0    305.0              409.6             2350. 4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       43.8        46.3     46.5               42.0               40.4
15-64 YRS.                       51.8        50.5     50.6               55.0               56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 4.4         3.2      2.9                3.0                3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            2.3         2.8       3.1               2.2                2.4
URBAN                            5.0         4.0      4.4                3.9                4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0       47.0     45.0               37.4               28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    23.0       18.0     15.0               14.6                7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.2         3.7      3.3                2.6                1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..      1908.1   2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..      6.0               15.6               39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        89.0       102.0     99.0              101.4              116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                 83.0        97.0      99.0              92.4              1013.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        55.0        60.0      63.0              49.8               60.3
OF WHICH ANlMAL AND PULSE     22.0        20.0      20.0              12.0               111.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    27.0       21.0     17.0               17.9                5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.0       49.0     52.0               50.8               63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        135. Ojc       ..       ..                 ..               52. 8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        21.0     29.0               30.2               42.4
URBAN                             ..          ..     60.0               66.0               62.1
RURAL                             ..          ..      17.0              20.0               29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         3.0      6.0               17.7               52.8
URBAN                             ..        12.0     21.0               71.3               71.1
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..                 ..               42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN       11000.O/d   4310.0/e  3780.Oje           6322.7             4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      8440.0e 10040.0/e          9459.0             2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                         2070.0      1870.0   2020.0             1758.4              819.4
URBAN                           370.0      500.0    570.0
RURAL                         22850.0    12390.0  12360.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..       ..                 ..               28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.4         5.3
URBAN                            5.6         5.5
RUJRAL                           5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            3. 1        2. 8/f
URBAN                            3.1         2.7
RURAL                            3. 1        2. 8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..        17.9/f
URBAN                             ..        54.4
RURAL                             ..         4.9



- 22 -                                       ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEDAVR_AGES
PAKISTAN                  ~~~~~- M)ST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MDST RECNT           LOW IllCCfE        MIDDLE INCOfE
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATIS /      ASIA 6 PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                30.0        44.0      51.0               80.9                98.6
MALE                 46.0        62.0      69.0              94.3                99.2
FEMALE               13.0       24.0      32.0               66.7                97.7
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                11.0        14.0      17.0               26.6                55.5
MALE                 18.0       22.0      25.0               34.8                60.7
FEMALE               3.0         6.0       8.0               18.2                49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  1.0         1.5       1.5                9.9                13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          39.0        41.0      42.0               41.1                34.6
SECONDARY                        24.0        20.0      19.0               20.5                28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      15.0Jg      20.0      21.0               40.9                85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1.0         3.0       2.8                1.8                 9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        6.0        18.0      16.0               25.8               118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         1. 6      4.8                2.4                39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 7.0          ..       5.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 8       3. 0/h     ..                 ..                 4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL iABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   14447.6    17364.1  21270.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  8.7         9.3      10.0               29.4                36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            60.8        58.9      58.0               70.5                51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               17.9        18.7      19.0               11.6                21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               31.5       28.7      27.9               37.9                39.1
MALE                               55.2        50.4      48.6               51.3                48. 5
FEfALE                              5.7         5.5       5.7               23.7                29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.5         1.7       1.8                1.2                 1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20-3L      17.8      17.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS 45. 3L      41.8      41.5
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 4ji     8.0       8.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. 5i     20.2      20.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URIIAN                             ..        68.0    176.0               107.8
RURAL                              *-        47.0     122.0               86.5               192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..        34.0      88.0
RURAL                              *-        22.0      58.0                  .               182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..        42.0      32.0               46.2
RURAL                              *-        43.0      29.0               51.7                33.2
Not gvailable
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-wighted *rithletic meana.  Coverage of countries
mong the indicators depends on availability of dsta and is not uniform.
X   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Eatiuste. between 1974 and 1978.
/c  1962-65;  d Includes Bangladesh;  L Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
1960-62;  Lh 1972;  Li  1963-64.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April. 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -                                                                         ANNX I
DEPINITIONS OP lStCIA. INDIICATORS
Notes:  Although the data are dree  fot- sorcsgeerly judged the mat authoritative and reliable, it ahould also be noted that they oay tot he inte-
ratturally compoatble because of ths lath, of atandtadled dofiteito   and coacpte used by difforeot conetries in collecting the date.  The dat.. are,noe
the1b.es . osf 1 to de..c.tLb  udtter  of eagittde, todieta creade, and ch-aterie  certain maJor diffar-oer. betwee  countries.
The  afstance groups are (1) the o    councoy gpoop of the eshject cutry end (2) a coutry group etch s.omehat bigbro averag  inome then the .eutrey group
of rh.obuje-c country Conce.pt f or "Capital Surplus Oil fEptrcer" group where  Middle Income North Africa cud Middle tEat" is chosen hec.... of etr-oge
aotir-cultorl affinictee).  In the ref-sac  group deco the averages ate population wtnhted arithmetic -er  for each tidtcator cud sh-owsel  whe  at
Iboa.t half of the ceuntrtee in a group h.. date fS orthat itdicetur.  tints the covrags of coutee ..e..ng the irdictors depends 00 the oLiablility of
data sod is not u-if.te, cation mt ha exercised to toUting avrages of toe iodtcatcr to snothar.  Three avrages err ociy useful in coparing the value
of one indicator soat   t    among the conotry and retf-oc  groups.
IAMD AREA (thousand eq.he.)                                                                    Ppula Ition cer phraicia-  Population divideod by number at prantlicig phy-
Total - Tota  enrfece aen .       ie.     load a..a ant Inland waters.                         siotas qoalifted fro a- mdical echoi at university lewd.
Asci-ultur.1 - Ettfacte of agriru1tcl te1   nee..d temporarily or yarmanetly                 Ponato   ar Nursing Person - Population divided by nuber of pretticleg
tar crope, potores, macht and htohen gardea  or to lie fellow; 1927 data,                   talc end fol  graduate nurses  p-eticaI aes,ed ..ssistantnr .
Poo..lation eec Hoeital Rod - coral. uchan and rural - Popolation (total.
iMP Pt CAPTA il)) -GNP per ..pict. etioatee at ctor-a-t macht prices, cc1-                uran  an.d rura) divided by theic ceapctiv- number of hospital beds
colated by en  convrstoc method cc World Bach Atlas (1977-79 beets); 1960,                    avilable in publIc and private genera  sod oPocieted hospital mad te-
l970. end  1979 data.                                                                         habilitetion centers.  Hospitals ore setablishmante penmuantMly staffed
by at leat on  physiia.-        etablimhaents pooviding principelly custodial
fHERGY _  CONSUMfPTION PER CAPITA - Amanal oosesptloo of tamercia1 energy (co.I                  taeamat itacld.d.  Rural hospitals, howeve. inc1.oe health  nt medical
end lignite, petroleu,  otuta1 gas sod bydro-, oucisar sod ge-theemal sa-                     ctancrs ac permasantly staffed by a physicisa (hut by a meition   vacttere.
tr icicy) he kilogram   of coal eqoi-alt pot rapita; 1960. 1970, astd 197                      mors, tidifa.  etc.) ehiuh offer ic-patient  --otmt:L              sad provide a
data,                                                                                          limited osage of medical tacilitiem.  For atatisutral pboroas  -tha  hoapu-
tla include VW.t principal general and apecialised hospitals. oed -onrl
rPOPLATION AND VITAfL STATISTICS                                                                 h.i..I.l.               .    .pt.-            d.l-     o.-t     aa 
Totcl S'opulatin..  Mid-Year (millions) - Ax of July 1; 1960. 1970, -d 1978                 Aosplt..  aolceor  rurit1 al hopitale ando medical iend  tatrr rente.rs..
date,                                                                                       from -hospitals divided            '' b     -.   f  ..
Urbh   t Paylatioo (P.oer t of total) - tatin of uben to total population;byte                                                          obds
different deisitione of urban aceas may efft toopcability of data                       HOUSING
smeeg cootries;1960, 170, and 1978 date.                                            Aesrass Sis. of Household (pers.ons pen house.hold) - tot _al.uban. and cora~l-
Pocoulatlee Projections                                               ~~~~~~~~A householId coneiste of a goon  of individuals who share living quarters
PPalatt.ALo i  year 2000 - Currest papoletio   proJection   are base.d I. 19B               end their mete meal.  A boader or ldger say or my sot ha tac1uded he
ctieL  popoLato  by age eat so  and their mortality sot fertility  atote.                 the household for statiottal purp-on.
Poojeccion parameters for mortality rates comprise of those level  asso-                Aveae".      ero   eene cro    totl. arhan, cad  rcra  - Avera ge   -
tag life eapectat y at birth ftcrosing with c.outry's pee capita incom                    bo  of. pebooof potroes,.I Pallubnrnt           rrln padtnetna
leve, ondfemal  life aepecteny stailloing at 77.5 yeats.  The Pats                        dwellings, repectively.  Swellings  oclade no--parmanct struc.tures end
moceos forfertility rate alan have three leel  assum..ing decli Loa inunccpied perte.
f-rtilit ty ccrding to incom  leve  and pea  family planing performance                 Access to Electricity  (rere'     o  dwellings) - total, ura,ad  ua1
Oathtcatnty isthe  asige  use ot.fpthese nine  otbimain    f..eiy                        o    n Ioa  dwalling  with eatriotty in living quarler  as poecentage
end frIlIt   rcds fo   prjcin P.0.ose.                                                    of total, urban, ad rura  dwellings  -p-ctivoly.
Stationer  opolaItios - InI  a ettinoay popolatlun chore is no grcbc since
the birth race is equal tc the death rtat, and  Lso the  gs structure re-    EUCATION
sloe consat.  This to schived  aly after fectility rates dooms. to                      AAJueted Enca11mn  Satins
chr repaeetlvl  fui  e   eroduction rar, ohms each ganettior                              P,riay shool - to,tal, male-sd f_tae-irtoss  cocci, male end tamale
of waorpae  itol  exactl.  Th   ttioner  populationes winseromn  o l  age   athcA  prioery lovo  as parc...tages of ..epo-tilm
estimated ce2the basistof the projected carataristic- of the popintioe                      primary a-hnu1-ag  p:oplations;. normally itelude children aged. 6-il
isthe year jOlt   rd ch. rate of decline of fertility rate toelee                           yent  bat adjusted fur different lengtho of primary education; foe
moot level.                                                          coun~~~~~~~~~~tries with ui-r-rea  aduc..tion  -ne1im-t may oscood 155 perceet
Tea  stationr  aultoi5rchd- The par when stationay popuLatios                                  sic  sm  pupils are biow  or  bhov  tAr oficial sohoo1 age.
si     ..he .bee   eahod.                                                            Secondry shol - tot!al,maAlef sodfeal  - Compted  x aho-; secondary
FPutultior D-nito                                                                                edcaineuie  a t las  fu   easo  aprc-ve  5rimay Onstruttion;
Par as. he. - Stid-ymar populatio  per sqexo  hilomtar (l50 betters) of                        providesg . so lercl.votaucl. rr teacher traling ituerutions for popib
total are.                                                                                  osualy of 12 to 17 yosro of age; coeryodoncrct,oeo   are geascally
Per so. he. agicultural lend - Computed so shov  for agric-ltural land                         ocindda.
Puoulo!tion )Ass Ecrature ~rm-cen   - Children  (0-14 year)  weting-age  (15-                    icuetcia,idurc,crohrprogram   wh:c P . oprte iedoPa-
64 years,adreid . (6.          yar  and ever) aspercetages of mid-year popo-                   dently or as departments of.secondary icoticutiona.
lation; 1960. 1970, act 1900 data.                                                           Luo-echrrto -4rth yr. an  scondory - Total  totdeta enrolld to
P     IuatnGot   at   pret      oa  - Anna  grwh  aeso                 to alid-           pomt   n_sceay             levl  diridebynmrsctahrsiro
yapouaion   f_ or  90-60  1960-.0..ext 1970-76.'r                                       coYrrepondlg 1-lev ..
fPorlatiunfGrowt Sate, (portent) - uoba  - Annul growh  aton- of othe  pop.-                   adult.liceracy rats Itatteott  - Literate s.tar   (able tc read ext weite)
Lation_ o  195. '0,1960-70         da 1970-786..P. sepo ts crag forccl adult ponlation aged 15 yar  sad over.
Crude Birth Rtac  (Ioar thousand) -Anul live births prr thousand of alt-yea
pop.   tie  1960   1970an  1978 data.                                                   Cooglop-TlOg
Crude Beah Sae(oar thoed             A-tAnal teethe par thousand of mid-yea                   asne   ae(petosn                  uaio)-Pergrcr  copim  motor
po::pula,t:~tio;  96. 1.970l, end 1976 data,                                                  cars  exting laos than sight persons; ccladee asbu1lso..s, hearse  eed
tresSrudcto  Sat  - Average oumbe  of daughters a  us ill hear io                         militacy vehicle..
hor to-Im esproduotive period if she seporiece  proseot age-specific for-                 Bi. tovr  (Par thonagod prulati-r) - All types of raosiv-ra for radt
rtty  ce ;  salyftiv-ya  avarge  ending is 1960, 1970  . ad 1977.                         hrcdcats no neoscl1 public pe        Ihosn   nfppltiu;acludas noli-
Paths Plcanina - A ..eptore. Annual (thousands  - Annua  usher of actaptore                    canoed rciesi   oce  a-dtin yeacd  whnrgfrtono   ai e
ofbirth-oatrol devices       - une  asice  ofetionl family plexLon  program.              was inafec; data. fer recent years may nut he  cmp,-r1h  since meet
really Picunine    lat  (pecen  of married woen  - Pocnae  fmried                              countries ebulohed lIcesig
-rn  uf child-beaing age (15-4t years) who wee birth-cotrol de-t... to                    TV teceirer  (per thousand. crorvon                T.. rcivers for broadcast to
oll marriad ocea  in san  age group.                                                         gonra1 public per thoneo"d ypuisltion; occludes ul:tcoaed TV recivers
P200 An41 ffITEITONi  oo -trios aad in yace whoa regiettoti.t of TfV so':s wee is off-mt.
Howraor  irulaio   (cr hosan  otult       Sh)-Ihw   the avrage circut
laden of Peed Poduottion Per Capita (1969-71-100) - Iodaa of Per toPics annul                  tiorof "daily go..oral.itersMesae"  defined .0periodical pub-
prdctoI     f all food -omedities.  Prdutioto  excldes sed oat fondand                      llcati.c devrted primarily t   eodn   gero  Iowe.  It is conidered
is no calndr year basis.  Co-editios comae primary goads (e.g. suace.oh   diy"i  oapasc   eatfutie      et
inetact of,sugac) which are edible and cocta nutrients (e.g. coffee and                   ChexaAce ACpdne  e   aita par  ear -hess..d 00 the nuber If
tea are onldd).  Agrg-g-  production of eac h .-atry is base.d 00                           cicisu        sAid  durn   h   er  ecuigamsin  to driv-to cinanc
tarionelaeag   rudoc..r prico weights; 1961-65, 1970, and 1970 date.                         endk t.bie unite.        y.r   ..dg    i.
Per eacit suPply of (oPoe   (prcent.uf racucamete) - Computed 0t camb . i
energy euvln  of ne .fo  spplie  e voilable in country Per capita                     LABOR5 PORCE
per day.  Avai1abla supplies comprise deesotLo prodoction, imports less                 Tetal Labor Pote (iosad)            - E  oically active persons, including
onprte. and changes in stock.  Nost s,ppliot onoludo comi           et,sed,               are forces.d.    -    en = 1ducplyad but solnldiog  htwia ,stdents, etc
qonetitios used in fond pr-cexelg. and losse  in distribotis.  Esquire-                   -efdtionl  in variou    cucIe ar   o   upc ;16.17   n
soewoeetimatd by PAP beast en physiological needs for matial arti-                 17   us
vicnd   hat d      noidrtg  ovromet11t-prour *0 body'  weghs,ae                          em     (pq.o.nt)   - Peal  labor force ne percetcge of total imbue force.
sdendsrbution of populatio..  an  sitn    ipret fur waste at                       riccituto- tteat) -Labor force io farming, fores try, hunttig end
h,ousehold lave; 1961-65, 1970,. nd 1977 data,                                            fishing as percectane of total labor forte; 1960, 1I70 eat i97M  data.
tar caPita eucol of Protei  (arane car day) - ProtLo  cuetent nof pot capita              Indusr       --ecen) - Labo  force he miing,..occtrutLon. matfoeLtuing
not  supyo   odpr day.  Hot supply of food is defined as abev.  Re-                       an  eetricity,wtradgoa   ooa eo   oa   ao   oc;1960,
qi.t=mucs foe all7  cutries eatebliehad by USDA provide for minimu                         97 n  1976 dtac.
elou1 c   of            I rm    f total protein per day eat 20 gram  of animal .od      PorIciainSte7ecn) .oa,mae   o   aml       at7te oo
panePrtein Lof which 10 gram  should be animal petain.  These etad-                      ocvt   ue   e   upoe   sttl    ae   n   eaelbrfrea
ccds are lower than those of 75 grams of total pratein and 23 groos of                     .tiytt....ptd.tt1  - ,   df                                .lbrf"
sn lprecein as amaeraeto  the weid, propose.d by tAil in the Third                    pecoae   f total, mlo and f a1ol  poplatina of slcagastaacioy
World fond fuevey; 1961-e , 17so197dt.660, 1970 , sod 1975 data.  Those ore I 1.0' perticipattue   reta reflecting
PoeI coeit   troni  eur61l6  cOt exaisd 197dtals-Poensppyo oddn                            ag-eo  tstruotur f thepopulation, end long ctne trn.  A few  mati-
from 1     ealmal  and pulses is grE     e   a;196 1-65, 1970 and 1977 icta.           me ess a.r. tram ouIo.-I      rs
rivet          N     lt   Et    Pr  =     prda                                         1,g Ecnui  gp-edoncySatio - Satie of ppdaconun     15 sot 65 eat evec
Child  ease  -i) Mrtalit  taco(oar housad) - Anua.l deaths per th-ousd is          toterua-aorfro
agE group 1-4 years, to rhiltr- oni  this age group; for meet devlaping cou-
tries data derived frca  life tables; 1960 , 19 70 and 1907 data.                       INCOME DISTRIBUTI0N
EXALTH                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PeronteS. If Private moon  (both in cash and hind) - iRc..ivadtby rihest
life Eccoctacy aBirth (y Ar) -Avrage number uf years of life remining                          5ypret.t richest 2t percet, pooract 20 percet, so  Ponas  hO percet
(Y                                                   h ...~~~~~~~~~~~o  hous 1odo.
Inant Mortalit Sate, (on   huad) - Aun1a deaths of inants under oeyear    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ef ego per tho....ed live births.                                                           txae  Abso-lute Pr ty Incom  Level (TS$ pot                     urban endrurl-
_oea  to Safe Water (percet of IV         =ltin  - total, urban, and rural -, -:Aslt   oetyiom   ee   s  htir                                    ee  beo  Ahh  inia
fisher of  .PeIp. (tota, urbex  adralwihrNexeble ecesa  to saf                               autricton-ly adequate diet Plus eseta   o-toc  reuir                     La iset'
wecor supPLy (includesltreated esfecs oatter  or ustratd hut unetaminatd                     affordable.
water each a- chec from  proctxcd btahols, springs, and sanitary wells)                    ZaEtiatad Orlati- Pov-rcy I.om  level (0s$ ca  toio               -ubn adrus
Percentages of their   epotiVe populations.  In an urban area   publie                       Rural relative p-ety IncI           lvLa one-third of avrage Pop capita
footaio cc  tcndpnat located nut mere than 200 meters foam a hoosm may ho                    Pesmliceofteoury tbalylisdivdrmthrrl
conidee  as ben-iharaoe                   co    fta   os.I   ua   ra                       lee  with adjustment for bieho- coat of liviag it, urban areas.
resoobl  aces in d Imply thenth cbshuseife ut mebers of the house.hold                ta,imated  .peuaijoBlwAslt   oet  nue   ee  orat                              ra
do our hove to sPend adisproportionate part of the day in fettching the                      and trca  -  eret of population (Pbe  ad rural3) who are "abslute pear".
famiy's mater needs.
rura  -  umbr ofpoo1s  tstalt rben  an= rura)tsores  by earc
diePra  as. poce     Iga f their respective populasio-.  toccata die-                                                         uEnemoic sod Burial Dcts Division
P.ea  ma y ioclute the ca11ection and dispneal. with or withet treasamuo                                               Ecoaomic Analysts and Pu.J.cotitn  Dpaper       te
nf huma  onrets -an  westa-tan   by weter-beru  sysutm   or the ..  of                                                                      October 1960
pit privies sod similar inseslletione.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)/b
USS billion         .                                  1976/77        1977/78        1978/79
GNP at Market Prices                          19.61           100.0                                   2.5            7.0            5.9
Gross Domestic Investment                      3.45            17.6
Gross National Saving                          2.24            11.4
Current Account Balance                       -1.21            -6.2
Resource Balance                              -2.50           -12.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978/79la
Valje Added            Labor Force            V.A. Per Worker
US$ million   7.         Million    7           US$ million    X
Agriculture              5,694        32           12.4     54             459         59
Industry                4,210        23            4.2      18           1,002        129
Services                8,042        45            6.4      28           1,257        161
Total/Average        17,946       100           23.0    100              780        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                Central Government
(Rs billion)               % of GDP                               (Rs billion)             7. of GDP
1978/79         1978/79      1976/77-1978/79                      1978/79       1978/79      1976/77-1978/79
Current Receipts                  31.7            17.8               17.2                            24.6          13.8              13.2
Current Expenditures              33.8            19.0               18.0                           25.3           14.2              13.0
Current Surplus/Deficit           -2.1            -1.2               -0.8                           -0.7          -0.4                0.2
Capital Expenditures              21.2            11.9               11.3                            18.0          10.1               9.5
External Assistance (net)         10.8             6.1                5.4                           10.8            6.1               5.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1976/77       1977/78      1978/7glc    l9797W        t9805Y
(billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                             52.8          64.7         77.7           73.1         88.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                28.6          33.4         42.3           40.9         46.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)             30.1          35.7         40.1           39.8         49.9
Money and Quasi Money as % of .DP                 38.9          41.3         43.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 = 100)            255.3         271.4        289.7          293.0        310.0
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                             11.3            6.3         6.7              .           5.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                29.4          16.8         26.6              .         13.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)             30.3          18.6          12.3             .         25.4
/a Labor force data are official. figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Serious underenumeration may exist, especially of women.
b GDP at factor cost.
/c Provisional.
Not applicable.                                                                                                           April 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                            MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-1978/79)
1976/77       1977/78       1978/79       1979/80/a                        US$ million         %
million)
Exports of Goods, NFS                                  1,449          1,746        2,302         3,405          Raw Cotton            69              5
Imports of Goods, NFS                                  3,339          3,804         5,198        6,208          Rice                 278             2(
Resource Balance                                      -1,890         -2,058       -2,896        -2,503          Cotton Yarn          141             10
Cotton Cinch        185             14
Interest Payments on External Debt                      -183           -261          -303         -331          Carpets              129              9
Workers' Remittances                                     578          1,166         1,395        1,575          Other Goods          585             42
Other Factor Payments (net)                              443            552           694           551           Total            1,387            100
Net Transfers                                            ...            ...           ...           ...
Balance on Current Account                            -1,052           -601       -1,110        -1,008          EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30.  19793
Public M6LT Loans                                                                                                                                               US5
Disbursements                                          799            797          888           895                                                       mli
Repayments                                            -175           -122         -235          -349                                                        million
Net Disbursements                                        624            675           653           546         Outstanding and Disbursed                      7,7b7.9
Mlb                                                                                      Undisbursed                                    2,536.3
Transactions with IND                                     41             41           -14            54         Outs tanding Including Undisbursed            10,304.2
Short-Term  Borrowing                                    -79            126           151            40
Uther Items                                              162             44             3           54I/        DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1978/79/1                   23.47.
Changes in Reserves (minus sign = increase)              211           -312           294         -180
Errors and Omissions                                      93             27            23            -          IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER 31. 1979 (US5 million)
Gross Reserves (year end)d                               372            694           386          566                                          IBRD           IDA
Net Reserves (year end)/e                               -146            150           -92           252
Official Gold (year end; million ozs.)                   1.6            1.7           1.7           1.8         Outstanding and Disbuirsed   343.8             717.6
Undisbursed                      88.0          353.5
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                      Outstanding Includinig
Undisbursead                 431.8        1,071.1
Imports                                                  400            485           611        1,203
of which:  Petroleum                                  274             341          308           737
Exports                                                   27             63            65          120
of which:  Petroleum                                    -              -             -            -
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through May 11, 1972        May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973            Since February 15. 1973
US$  =  Rs 4.7619                   US$  =  11.00                         US$  =  9.90
Rs   =  US$0.2100                   Rs   =   0.0909                       Rs   =  0.1010
/a Government estimate.
lb  Including Trust Fund.
/c  Includes extraordinary inflows from Saudi Arabia of $420 million and an SDR allocation of $39 million.
/d  Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
/e  Excluding use of IMF resources.
/f External public debt only; private debt is negligible.
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
= Included elsewhere.                                                                                                                              April 1980



- 26 -                 ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                  Amount (less cancellation)
Credit                                                                         Undis-
Number   Year  Borrower        Purpose                     Bank   TW    IDA  bursed
Seventy-eight loans and credits fully disbursed /a        611.2         581.3
422      1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                  --            18.0   0.3
492      1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                   --            16.0   1.7
1107     1975  SNGPL      Gas Pipeline IV                  53.0           --    2.0
546      1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)   --              30.0   1.7
1208T    1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                --   35.0      --    5.5
620      1976  Pakistan  Seed                              --            23.0   9.2
1326     1976  PICIC      Industrial Development           25.0           --    1.3
630      1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                   --            26.6  10.1
648      1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage           --            14.0   8.0
1366     1977  Pakistan  Livestock                         --   10.0      --    9.8
1372/684 1977  Pakistan  Railways                          35.0          25.0  25.3
678      1977  Pakistan  Education                         --            15.0  11.2
751      1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                      --             3.0   2.0
754      1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                          --            70.0  69.3
755      1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                   --             1.7   1.6
771      1978  Pakistan  Tarbela II                        --            35.0   2.2
813      1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                  --            12.5  10.4
846      1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                  --            55.0  24.1
867      1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil & Gas Development        --            30.0  19.6
877      1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control & Reclamation  --              60.0  59.5
892      1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                 --            10.0   9.2
922      1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension lb  --              (9.0) (9.0)
957      1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank   --              30.0  27.3
968      1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                 --            45.0  42.1
974      1980  Pakistan  Third Highway                     --            50.0  49.8
1019     1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development    --              40.0  40.0
1066     1981  Pakistan  Fertilizer Imports (SDR 38.2 M) --              50.0  50.0
Total                                                     724.2 45.0 1,241.1
of which has been repaid                                397.3  --      23.7
Total now outstanding                                     326.9 45.0 1,217.4
Amount sold                                       23.9
of which has been repaid                        22.3      1.6  --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                         325.3 45.0 1,217.4
Total undisbursed                                          27.0 15.3   450.9 493.2
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not included in totals:  Credit number 922-PAK is not yet effective.
Ic   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -                  ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (December 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                              Amount   In USS   Million
Year      Obligor            Type of Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of          Rolled Steel         0.63       -        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.          Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles              0.75       -        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement       Cement               5.25      0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                  Development           -        0.52      0.52
1969-                           Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute          Textiles             1.84      0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.          Paper Products       4.43      0.84      5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.             Paper                5.38      2.02      7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers          1.00      2.92      3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper       Pulp and Paper       5.60      0.63      6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited       Food & Food           2.40      0.40      2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                              29.00      1.62     30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-
lene bags             1.78       -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited         Particle Board        2.70                2.70
Total Gross Commitments                    60.76     9.48      70.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                33.25     1.01      34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          27.51     8.47      35.98
IJndisbursed (including participants)      21.23     0.37      21.60



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage--the construction of
the closure section of the dam--to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Work to construct a flip-bucket
at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is scheduled to begin in 1981 and will be
completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool below the service
spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection works. Final protec-
tion work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the downstream channel
will be completed in 1980. Final protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool
will be completed in 1981/82. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the
dam have generally been met. Power generation by the first four units began
in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35.0 Million Loan and US$25.0 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical aspects of the project are proceeding satisfactorily.
Pipri Marshalling Yard has been completed and was opened on March 18, 1980.
Kotri Bridge has been completed and was opened to traffic on February 14,
1980.  Four shunters for Pipri Yard have been received.  Spare parts for
diesel locomotives have been fully ordered; 55% have been received already.
Work on the telecommunications and signalling system has started. Proposals
for increasing freight traffic are under discussion with the Government.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                   ANNEX II
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Work on the Juna Bunder Berths is nearing completion. iQuay piling
and shed construction have been completed and auxilliary works are in progress.
The initial and subsequent delays in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge
will mean that completion is likely to be delayed until early 1981 - about 3
years behind schedule. Most of Credit 422 has been disbursed. Construction
of the oil berth has been completed and it has been operational since November
1978. More than 70% of the channel dredging works has also been completed. A
study report commissioned by KPT for rationalizing the port tariff structure
is under review by KPT. An interim tariff increase averaging 100% was approved
by the Government last year, and has already contributed to lessening the port
congestion. Virtually all the funds under the Credits have been committed.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This loan has been fully committed and at December 31, 1980, disburse-
ments amounted to US$23.7 million. The Closing Date, originally December 31,
1980, has been postponed to December 31, 1981 to allow time to complete three
subprojects.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit has been fully committed and US$28.3 millicon had been
disbursed as of December 31, 1980. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979 and postponed to November 30, 1980 has been further postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow time to complete one subproject.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are generally on schedule. Savings amounting
to US$3.7 million are being used for the construction of a pipeline from
Meyal and for partial replacement of the Faisalabad-Shahdara transmission
line. An additional amount of US$7 million in savings has been cancelled.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most
important delays being with the construction and equipping of the three seed
processing plants which are now estimated to commence operations two years
later than anticipated.



- 30 -                    ANNEX II
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
All the works have been contracted after some design delay and
retendering. Construction is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule, and the
Closing Date, originally December 31, 1980, has been postponed to December 31,
1982. Because of this delay and general inflation, project costs are esti-
mated to be about 40% over the original estimates. The engineering consulting
service financed by UNDP has been strengthened and extended to cover the
prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA (UK) for
engineering and financial management, leak detection and training has been
reorganized to better meet the needs of the project. Financial results of
Lahore WASA have deteriorated; an interim tariff increase was effected
October 1, 1980.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50.0 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been progressing well. The project will be substantially complete by
December 1980, about one year behind schedule. Due to lower-than-expected
prices, there will be estimated savings of $18 million, $15 million of which
has already been cancelled. The Closing Date has been extended mainly to
accommodate the disbursement of retention money.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date: July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about 23 months behind schedule. However,
with the recent completion by WAPDA and their consultants of the project plan
report and construction of ancillary works and facilities, WAPDA should be able
to maintain consistent and seasonable progress in the critical task of drain
pipe installations after delivery of most of the heavy equipment, which took
place in mid-1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides facilities for: (a) primary teacher training,
an experiment on adult functional literacy and related studies; and (b) agri-
cultural education to assist in developing higher and middle level agricul-
tural manpower, farmer training and related studies. Project implementation
remains about five months behind schedule; civil works are about 80% complete.
The specialized technical services program is in progress after an initial



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
delay of 18 months. Disbursements remain low because of earlier implementa-
tion delays and slow submission of documentation by Provincial Governments.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing :Date:
December 31, 1982
In July 1979, GOP, GOPunjab and IDA agreed that the project would be
reduced in scope and that PLB would concentrate its efforts on Village Live-
stock Association (VLA) development activities and milk processing. Since
then steps have been taken to improve the viability of the existing milk plant
and VLA formation has increased almost three-fold. Based on the consultants'
report, the Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) would be expanded for the production of
65,000 liters per day (lpd) of ultra-high temperature (UHT) milk in tetrapak
plus 15,000 lpd of pasteurized milk in bulk.  Agreement has been reached in
principle that LMP would be established as a cooperative entity and for the
appointment of a General Manager acceptable to the Bank and the recruitment of
three expatriate executive managers (processing and engineering, procurement
and marketing, and finance) who would assist the General Manager in operating
the plant.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3.0 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is generally proceeding satisfactorily. Pilot programs
for food crop trials, vegetables, apples, forestry and livestock are operating
close to schedule. There has been some delay in commencing preparation of the
proposed follow-up project.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70.0 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about two years behind schedule due to the delayed
appointment of consultants, who are assisting with detailed project design
and implementation, and GOP financial constraints. GOP and IDA staff have
agreed on revisions to the project's scope.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is behind schedule, notably in the silvicultural work.  The
silviculturalist will be recruited by FAO, as executing agency of a UNDP-
financed project. The first phase of the feasibility study is expected to
commence in early 1982.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation is delayed about 18 months. Lately, there
has been progress in staff recruitment, building site acquisition and
construction. IDA and GOP have recently agreed on proposals to expedite
implementation.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are practically completed and con-
struction is well advanced. The marketing program is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about eight months behind schedule mainly
due to technical difficulties in drilling and slow procurement. However, with
the availability of better equipment, materials and services, drilling perfor-
mance has started to improve. The drilling management contractor, who started
work in April 1980, is now managing three OGDC rigs at Toot field. With the
completion of one new well and working over another, Toot oil production has
reached approximately 2,000 b/d, an increase of 50% since mid-1980. Measures
to remedy institutional problems at OGDC have been agreed and are in the
initial stages of implementation.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is one year behind schedule, due to GOP financial con-
straints. GOP and IDA staff have agreed on revisions to the project's scope.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10.0 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project pursues four objectives in primary education: greater
access, fewer dropouts, increased learning achievements and reduced unit recur-
rent costs. Special attention is given to the education of girls. The project
is experimental, covering about 8% of the nation's schools. After some initial
problems, the project is now progressing satisfactorily. Civil works, equip-
ment and furniture procurement and staff training are about three months behind
schedule.



ANNEX II
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
ADBP's lending has increased rapidly, reaching Rs 712 million in
FY80 from Rs 417 million in FY79, a 75% increase. Tractor lending still
predominates with the minor irrigation component progressing slowLy due to
delays in the importation of high speed diesel engines. Import ofE the latter
has just been authorized.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45.0 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts have been
signed for some principal items and tenders for several other major equipment
orders have been received.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9.0 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. IDA and GOP have recently agreed
on proposals to expedite implementation.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Delays in credit effectiveness and contractors' inability to plan
their work effectively have delayed construction and will call for a revision
of contract timing to bring required outputs into line with the zontractors'
abilities.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit became effective October 29, 1980 and US$1.5 million
has been committed.
Credit No. 1066      Fertilizer Imports Credit:  US$50 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
This Credit became effective December 1, 1980. Procurement of
180,000 tons of fertilizer is underway. A joint review to evaluate the
effect of fertilizer price increases on agricultural output will take place
early-1981.



- 3-                          ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
SMALL INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Three years.
(b) The agency which prepared the project:
Ministry of Industries (with UNIDO assistance),
commercial banks and small industries corporations.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project:
February 1977.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:
May 22, 1980.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
January 28, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
June 1981.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The commercial banks would establish special small
industries loan divisions within their present
small loan departments (paragraph 45);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
(b)  The Government would prepare detailed training proposals
by June 30, 1981 (paragraph 45);
(c)  The Government would periodically review the adequacy of
the lending rate for small industries projects in order to
maintain a positive relending rate under the Credit, and
would increase the lending rate for subprojects if the
general interest level is raised (paragraph 47);
(d)  IDBP would apply subproject review and refinancing proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association (paragraph 48);
(e)  The Government would make available to IDBP a line of
credit of Rs 10 million as a start-up fund to assist in
refinancing of subprojects (paragraph 56);
(f)  With regard to the credit component, the following would
be conditions of disbursement, i.e. that at least two
participating banks have: (i) strengthened their small
loans division; (ii) signed Participation Agreements
with IDBP; and (iii) approved a statement of operating
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association
(paragraph 56); and
(g)  The following would be conditions of effectiveness
(paragraph 63):
(i) the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and IDBP, satisfactory
to the Association;
(ii) the execution of Participation Agreements between
IDBP and at least two participating banks, satis-
factory to the Association; and
(iii)  the approval by the Boards of Directors of such
banks of a statement of operating policies and pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.






IBRD  15303
-OX                          *'~~~                                  ~~~~~~~4-  6'2                          7'2-          U. S. S. R.  
C. CHINA
PAKISTAN
PAKISTAN SMALL SCALE INDUSTRIES PROJECT                                                                            LI                                          36-
Project areas of service centers                                                                         d   R
*o   National capital                                                                    /       SWAT
O    Provinciol capitals                                                               SIR               ZARA
to ..J                     ......  App,... .w. Iii,. of -t,ol,o
o    Selected major cities                                                                                                * ........ ...-
-    -   District boundaries                                                              *jgARDAS.(
Provincial boundaries                                                   PeshoI >*
International boundaries                                        *'  NORTH           AWAR     5         ISLAAIAA
aWASIRISLAN                  \r!)   -abed
Rivers                                                                                                                  jKROAT   CAMPRRLLPORE .RAWALPINSI
-    / JHELUM   O t ,*.
/    N'            ., \.. i    m R ,si*AT    w 
,-'SOUTH 9                             Gvjie '>     G uW 
3    WAZIRISTANt /t  j.R                             SIALKOT    -
'32-                                                                                       j           SEA A       / a o                ;        ~ 'N               3z-
IL                                                               3 2AIL 
N <HPURAIANWAL}r  S/Ura
DEMOCRATIC            REPUBLIC                                ZHOa O    e        ,                YH JNOG                     E^IZAL  S
"  saw   2   :                   S  ~~~~ ~~/ LAHoR
OF   AFGHANISTAN                      f 11$HIN                                        MUZAFFARHI
/                                                                            OAR1f      fRovs    SANIWAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AR
tEa                       /SDERA      P          J
/           \     to A~~~~~~~LAI
-'                                        BAHAWA MUTAINAGAR
'HAOAI              <*/        j             EAC H,RKALAT                 A 8UG  j T I                               N   D  I A
k             ~~~~~~~C H A G A I,'KACIR'                                                     V                        /
.7  ,,_,.8AL/C.(.H--IR5 TAN    ,_,JRAH,meR    ,' 8AHAWALPUR    j
28-   ( ,,.    K H A RAM           2.    j       t ,J      ACO8AA8-
I R A N                                                               LARKAN                            -
KILOMETERS 0         100       200        300
>          ~~MAKIAN              /       .._    r
(-. <   j  J  ,/  (   \  NAWABSHAE\        |                    MILES O                100              200
I.f                               1 ' \  ''  '    _    ,,_,,_,,j  7*2-
SASSU          SANGHAR
'LAS BELA                                                                     U S.S.R.~     -
'~'~.O)~*   '-L--'        CHINA
YDL.APERABAD                          ~ 
?i;M. REP. OF.? 
*R-                       N   THAR PARKAR                   IRAN        ,AFGHANI- j           d;
KARACHI                                               '~~~~~~~~~~N  .S TAN  IInoif
KUP*Ch           ~~~BASIN/                                             .-.
24*
2t    A re bs a 87    5e a        %           r                             24-                   _               I b! D I A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N DI 
SAUDIINI
ARABIA   JM
AV 00 twwm*S                                                                                                        198
SPTE *BR 1980



