e--   s       CREDIT NUMBER 1113 PAK
Punjab Project Agreement
(Small Industries Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
Dated                              , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1113 PAK
PUNJAB PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              ,1981, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMEN   ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter called  the
Association) and PROVINCE OF PUNJAB (hereinafter called Punjab).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 23,600,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that Punjab agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Punjab, in consideration of the Association's enter-
ing into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Punjab shall carry out Part B (1) of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose. To that end, Punjab shall make adequate and timely
budgetary provisions for the implementation of such Part of the
Project and for the maintenance of facilities and equipment
provided under the Project.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist in carrying out Part B (1)
of the Project, Punjab shall employ, or cause to be employed,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions set out or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Punjab undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Punjab to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Punjab
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. With respect to Part B (1) of the Project
Punjab:
(a) shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate to
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost
and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where


﻿-3-
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds;
(c) shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of Punjab and any relevant records and
documents; and
(d) shall, by September 30, 1981, prepare for the service
center a statement satisfactory to the Association, of operating
policies including the composition of a management committee, a
definition of its powers and responsibilities and a schedule of
construction, staffing and recruitment advisors.
Section 2.06. (a) Punjab shall at the request of the Associa-
tion after consultation with the Borrower, exchange views with
the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) Punjab shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Punjab of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Punjab shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition in
respect of activities related to Part B (1) of the Project.
Section 3.02. Punjab shall in respect of activities related
to the Project: (a) have its accounts and financial statements
(statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (b) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year (i) certified copies of its financial statements
for such year as so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by


﻿-4-
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (c) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning such accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Punjab shall at all times cause the facilities
and equipment required for Part B (1) of the Project to be
operated, maintained, renewed and repaired in accordance with
appropriate financial and management practices.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Punjab thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Punjab of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿-5-
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Province of Punjab:
Chairman
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:
DEVELOPMENT
Lahore
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Punjab may be taken or executed by its
Chairman, Planning and Development Board or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and he shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused th.s Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of          ,
198 /
FOR SECRETARY


