Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18326
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
TRANSCARPATHIAN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28638
June 26, 1998
Rural Development & Environment Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I (as of July 1998)
Currency Unit   =    Hrivnya (UAH)
US$1    =    1.95 UAH
NOTE: On September 17, 1996, the Ukrainian Karbovanets was
redenominated by a factor of 100,000 and renamed to the Ukrainian Hrivnya.
AVERAGE OFFICIAL EXCHANGE RATES
(per US$1)
1993      1994      1995       1996      1997    Feb 1998
0.045     0.327      1.473     1.829     1.862      1.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBR  -  Carpathian Biosphere Reserve
CIS  -  Commonwealth of Independent States
DPRA   -  Department of Protected and Recreation Areas
EC  -  European Community
GEF  -  Global Environment Facility
GET  -  Global Environment Trust
GIS  -  Geographic Information System
IBR  -  International Biosphere Reserve (Slovak, Poland and Ukraine)
IBRD   -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB   -  International Competitive Bidding
IUCN   -  International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources
LCB  -  Local Competitive Bidding
MEPNS  -  Ministry for Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
SOE  -  Statement of Expenditures
TA   -  Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR OF UKRAIE
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Paul J. Siegelbaum, ECC 1I
Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader: John Hayward, ECSSD
Responsible Team  Phillip Brylski (ECSSD) and Caspar Warnaars (Consultant)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
TRANSCARPATH1AN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28638
Contents
Preface .............................................................................................................................................................
Evaluation Summary .....................................................                                                                     i
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ......................................................1
Part II. Statistical Tables ..................................................... .                                                         7
TABLE 1: SUmmARY OF ASSESSMENTS ............................................................                                        7
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ...........................................................                                     9
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ...........................................................                                              9
TABLE4: GRANT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND AcTuAL .................................................. 10
TABLE5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................................                     10
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ...........................................................                          10
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ............................................................                                  10
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ............................................................11
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ...........................................................11
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...........................................................                                   12
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ............................................................                                   12
TABLE  11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ........................................................... 13
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ............................................................                                14
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MNSSIONS ...........................................................                                     14
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Recipient's contribution to the ICR
C. Recipient's comments on the ICR
D. Map 25416
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
TRANSCARPATHIAN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28638
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection
Project in Ukraine, for which the GET Grant 28638 in the amount of SDR 400,000 (US$0.5 million
equivalent) was approved on July 28,1993 and made effective on October 27,1993.
The Grant was closed on March 31,1997; the original closing date was December 31,1995. It was fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on July 8, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Phillip Brylski (ECSSD) and Caspar Warnaars (Consultant) of the ECA region
and reviewed by John Hayward, Sector Leader, and Gottfried Ablasser, Portfolio Manager, ECSSD. The
Recipient's contribution to the ICR and its comments on the ICR are included as Appendices B and C
respectively.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission from October 2-7,1997. It is
based on material in the project files and discussions with the staff of the Ministry of Environment
Protection and Nuclear Safety staff (MEPNS) engaged in the project, the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), NGOs, and other individuals and organisations involved in the project. The borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by providing its Completion Report dated March, 1998.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
TRANSCARPATHIAN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28638
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    In 1991, Ukraine, Poland, and the Slovak Republic agreed to develop a Tri-national Biosphere
Reserve in the Eastern Carpathians. The Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection Project, supported by
the Global Environmental Facility (GEF), would provide funds required to implement this agreement
which calls for consistent management approaches for the contiguous protected areas in the three
countries. It was identified in mid-1993 and was designed to extend an earlier approved Slovak Republic
GEF project into the adjoining forests in Ukraine.
ii.    The project was the first GEF and Bank project in Ukraine, and was one of five Bank-managed
GEF projects in the region that provided assistance in conserving forest biodiversity to countries making
the transition from centrally planned to market economies. The other four projects were in Poland,
Belarus, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic. All five projects were designed to improve the management
and protection of transboundary forest ecosystems through international collaboration. The projects in
Ukraine, Slovakia, and Poland either focused on, or included as one component, a transborder region of
the Carpathian Mountains.
Project Objectives and Components
iii.    Objectives: The project objectives were to: (i) incorporate this small Ukrainian GEF project
($500,000) as an add-on to the proposed Slovakia Biodiversity Protection project (GEF $2.3 million); (ii)
support Ukraine's efforts to protect habitat fragments, stop species loss, and improve habitat management
in the Carpathian Mountains; and (iii) develop and implement the legal, institutional, and administrative
interventions to achieve the long term protection of the area in Ukraine, in collaboration with parallel
GEF projects in the Carpathian forests of Poland and the Slovak Republic. Three additional project
objectives were for the project to be innovative, to yield results that can be replicated elsewhere, and to be
sustainable.
iv.    Components: To achieve these objectives, the project components provided: (i) technical studies
of flora and fauna and options to promote their conservation, development of land use policies for buffer
zones of the protected areas, and development of a plan for expanding the treatment of conservation
biology in a forestry school curriculum; (ii) infrastructure (computers, GIS, several vehicles, and a radio
network) to strengthen management of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve; (iii) development of
communications and language skills, GIS computer training, park planning, conservation biology, and
management training; and (iv) operational expenses for project management.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    Achievement of Objectives: The project objectives were achieved in a highly satisfactory manner.
The Ukraine and Slovak GEF projects established a US $600,000 trust fund for the establishment and
operation of the Foundation for Biodiversity Conservation in the Eastern Carpathians. The fund's interest
finances operational expenses of the Foundation as well as small projects identified in the strategic plan.
The program of applied research and monitoring and protected area management yielded satisfactory
results and is being further developed following the completion of the project. The Carpathians
Biosphere Reserve (CBR) was expanded by 24,000 hectares and a plan to link the protected areas of the
Ukraine Carpathians region was prepared. This work, along with inventory studies, provided specific
recommendations for expanding the reserve by an additional 20,000-30,000 ha in the next five years. An
inventory of the CBR's biodiversity was conducted and provided scientific justification for the further
expansion of the reserve. The inventory resulted in the identification of a number of new species and
detection of many species not previously known to exist in the Ukraine Carpathians. The results were
published in a book that provides a baseline for biodiversity protection and management in the region for
years to come. The project also financed preparation of a number of educational brochures, booklets, and
popular and scientific articles, as well as improvements to the educational museum at the CBR
headquarters.
vi.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The project was affected by four main administrative
factors that contributed to slow disbursement and implementation: (i) the implementing agency, the
MEPNS, was a new ministry with relatively low capacity, (ii) because the project was the first Bank
operation in Ukraine, and among the first externally funded projects of its kind in the country, the
Recipient was faced with learning the Bank's requirements; (iii) the PIU was relatively inexperienced in
office and project management; and (iv) the PIU was faced with national regulations and bureaucracy
regarding taxes, customs, and banking that hindered implementation. While each of the project activities
were influenced by these factors, the GIS component was affected the most: delays in the procurement of
GIS equipment, from contracting to delivery to release of the shipment by customs officials, necessitated
two extensions to the closing date. However, several positive factors affecting the project were the strong
ownership of the project, the high skills of many of the technical staff, and strong ownership and results
orientation by various stakeholders in Ukraine.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
vii.   Sustainability: The project results-improving the sustainablility of the forest ecosystems within
the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve by expanding the reserve and expanding human resources through
professional development and training- are sustainable in the short to medium tern. Despite low
salaries, there has been good continuity of staff and consultants at the local and central (i.e., Kyiv) levels,
which has contributed to maintaining the benefits of the project's investments in human resources. State
budgets for the CBR remain small as a result of the on-going difficulties of the Ukraine economy
whereas, in the long term, maintenance of the larger biosphere reserve will require an increase in staff
resources and other baseline investments. The project investments will not be sustainable in the medium
or long termn without additional financing. The project strengthened capacity within the CBR staff, the
MEPNS, and the PIU to continue with the project activities in different ways. The Reserve Director has
also been working with regional authorities to establish an "Ecological - Economic District" that would
provide special tax incentives for sustainable development of the region. This proposal is currently being
considered by the Parliament.



iii
viii.  Future Operations: The project was the Bank's first project in Ukraine, and contributed to the
development of a balanced portfolio of Bank-managed enviromnent projects in Ukraine. None of these
are related directly to the Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection project. Work in the project region is
continuing on several fronts. The CBR staff are building on the inventory, applied research, and local
consultations to define the strictly protected and economic use zones of the expanded reserve, in
accordance with Ukrainian regulations. The applied research activities financed by the project identified
a number of management actions that are now under implementation. Among these is the use of the GIS
to assist in further landscape level planning to link the protected areas of the eastern Carpathian
Mountains. The Recipient is currently developing a proposal for a follow-on GEF project that would
further improve forest management and biodiversity protection in the transboundary forests of the
Carpathian countries.
Bank and Borrower Performance
ix.    Bank Performance: The Bank's performance was satisfactory throughout preparation and
implementation. Most Bank missions included forestry and biodiversity specialists, and the Bank
provided additional training in disbursement and procurement procedures and requirements. Several
intensive professional development and training programs were organized by the Bank on technical
themes and on nature-based tourism. Although task management responsibilities of the project changed
within the first year of implementation, after this, the Recipient acknowledged the importance of the good
continuity in the Bank team responsible for the project. The total Bank resources spent on the project,
including identification, preparation, supervision, and completion, was approximately one-half of the
grant amount. This ratio of Bank resources to the total grant amount is too high, even though this ratio is
strongly influenced by the small size of the grant ($500,000). Whereas modest Bank resources were used
for preparation of the project, the Recipient needed substantial assistance with its implementation. The
supervision budget was also increased by the 18 month extension of the closing date, which was needed
to complete the GIS activities.
x.    Recipient Performance: The Recipient's performance was satisfactory. The project activities
were implemented as planned and all legal requirements were met. This justified the Bank's continuous
satisfactory rating of the project's development and implementation objectives during implementation.
The project had a slow start as the Recipient learned Bank procurement requirements (this being Ukraine's
first Bank and GEF project). Subsequent delays resulted from obstacles related to in-country conditions.
Those responsible for implementation spent considerable time discovering innovative solutions to the in-
country conditions that often made progress difficult. Early in the project, the Recipient established a PIU
outside of the MEPNS in response to the Bank's concern over the slow pace of implementation. This
PIU performed extremely well and, building on the experience developed under the project, now assists the
government and NGOs in implementing projects financed by the Government of Ukraine, the Bank, and
other donors.
Key Lessons Learned
xi.    The lessons leamed were discussed during a regional meeting involving participants of GEF
biodiversity projects from Belarus, Ukraine, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and the World Bank. Based on
discussions held during the completion mission and at the regional workshop, the key lessons learned
from the Recipient's perspective are:



iv
a. Projects such as this should include a component on the role of public relations in reserve
management. Although local communities approved the expansion of the Carpathians
Biosphere Reserve, these approvals occurred at the local political level, and not necessarily
based on good understanding of the issues by the local community. Public relations activites
under the project would have improved the flow of information between local communities
and the reserve management.
b. The applied research component should have been designed to have greater direct application
to the management problems of the reserve, including the social and economic conditions of
the support zones.
c. Greater attention needs to be paid to integrating the project results with policies related to
forestry and taxation incentives for sustainable forest management.
d. Although it is appropriate to target large groups for some professional development and
training activities, some of these activities would have a greater impact if fewer people
received more intensive, longer term training.
Two key lessons learned from the Bank's perspective are:
a. Biodiversity and natural resources management projects in countries in transition should seek
to improve the project's replicability by integrating the results into policy frameworks at
local, regional, and national levels of government.
b. As in other GEF biodiversity projects in the region, a needs assessment of the PMU early in
implementation would have identified the need for training in office management and
business skills. Such training could have reduced early delays in implementation and given
greater time to the substantive work to be done.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UKRAINE
TRANSCARPATHIAN BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
GET GRANT 28638
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Introduction
1.    Ukraine's forests comprise 10 million ha covering 14 percent of its land area. The Carpathian
Mountains support one quarter of the plant species found in Europe, stands of virgin beech forest totaling
approximately 10,000 ha, and many medicinal plants useful to humankind. This natural resource of
global and European important is under threat from unsustainable land uses and transboundary air
pollution.
2.    The project was the first GEF and Bank project in Ukraine, and was one of five Bank-managed
GEF projects in the region that provided assistance in conserving forest biodiversity to countries making
the transition from centrally planned to market economies. The other four projects were in Poland,
Belarus, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic. All five projects were designed to improve the management
and protection of transboundary forest ecosystems through international collaboration. The projects in
Ukraine, Slovakia, and Poland either focused on, or included as one component, their transborder region
of the Carpathian Mountains.
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The project objectives, as stated in the SAR, were to: (i) incorporate this small Ukrainian GEF
project ($500,000) as an add-on to the proposed Slovakia Biodiversity Protection project (GEF $2.3
million); (ii) support Ukraine's efforts to protect habitat fragments, stop species loss, and improve habitat
management in the Carpathian Mountains; and (iii) develop and implement the legal, institutional, and
administrative interventions to achieve the long term protection of the area in Ukraine, in collaboration
with parallel GEF projects in the Carpathian forests of Poland and the Slovak Republic. Three additional
project objectives were for the project to be innovative, to yield results that can be replicated elsewhere;
and to be sustainable.
4.    The project investments were divided among four components:
i. Biodiversity Protection. This component included technical studies of flora and fauna and
options to promote their conservation, development of land use policies for buffer zones of
the protected areas, and development of a plan for expanding the treatment of conservation
biology in a forestry school curriculum;
ii. Management Resources. This component provided infrastructure (computers, GIS, several
vehicles, and a radio network) to strengthen management of the Carpathians Biosphere
Reserve;
iii. Training. This included development of communications and language skills, GIS computer
training, park planning, conservation biology, and management training; and



2
iv. Project Management. The project financed operational expenses for project management.
5.    Evaluation of objectives. During the completion mission, the Recipient and the Bank agreed that
the project objectives were appropriate. However, restated in more specific terms, the project objectives
were to: (i) improve the understanding of the biodiversity of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve to serve
as a foundation for its protection and management; (ii) expand the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (CBR)
and zone the biosphere reserve in accordance with Man in the Biosphere (MaB) conventions; (iii)
demonstrate principles of modem conservation biology and restoration ecology, leading to improved
management of isolated stands of old-growth forest; (iv) develop and implement legal, institutional, and
administrative solutions to the management needs of the biosphere reserve; and (v) promote regional (i.e.,
Eastern Carpathians) cooperation in scientific research, monitoring and evaluation, ecological restoration,
and protected area management.
C. Achievement of Objectives
6.    The project objectives were achieved in a highly satisfactory manner, particularly in light of the size
of the grant (US$500,000). The following is a summary of these achievements:
7.    Regional (Eastern Carpathians) cooperation. The Ukraine and Slovak GEF projects established
a USD $600,000 trust fund for the establishment and operation of the Foundation for Biodiversity
Conservation in the Eastern Carpathians. The trust fund was financed by contributions from GEF and the
MacArthur Foundation of $300,000 each. The objective of the Foundation is to promote activities to
protect biodiversity of the Eastern Carpathians, for example strengthening the protected area network and
developing sustainable forest practices and nature-based tourism. The tri-lateral foundation prepared and
adopted a strategy for biodiversity conservation in the region and agreed to work for establishment of the
International Biosphere Reserve. Although the tri-lateral reserve has not yet been ratified by the three
countries, the three countries are working under ministerial agreements toward this end.
8.    The interest income of the trust fund is eligible for uses agreed upon by the 14-member Board.
T'he fund will provide operational expenses (mainly travel to meetings) of the Foundation in perpetuity.
In addition to Foundation operational expenses, the trust fund's interest income is being used to finance
small projects identified in the strategic plan. In 1996, Ukraine received $5,000 to prepare the technical
reports needed for expansion of Stuzhitsa reserve, an important component of the proposed tri-lateral
biosphere reserve.
9.    Given the difficult economic conditions of Ukraine, these small grants have been effectively
used. However, the trust fund may have been more effective had it been structured to be fully disbursed
over a 5-10 year period following completion of the GEF projects. This would have enabled the
Recipient to address the urgent conservation needs of the Carpathian transboundary region. Also,
administration of the Trust Fund could have been simplified by reducing the number of Board members.
10.   The objective of promoting regional cooperation in applied research and monitoring and
protected area management yielded satisfactory results during implementation. This program will be
further developed after completion of the project. The Foundation continues to work on implementation
of the strategy. For Ukraine, the project and the Foundation acted as a catalyst for expanding
international cooperation on forest conservation in the Carpathian Mountains. Since the completion of
the project, Ukraine has hosted a delegation from the Council of Europe to discuss development of pilot
sustainable tourism activity in the region, and has initiated a follow-on project with the assistance of
Tacis grant funding.



3
11.   Expansion and zoning of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve. An important challenge of the
project was to improve biodiversity protection and management in four distinct fragments of old growth
forests within the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (CBR). To achieve this, the Carpathians Biosphere
Reserve was expanded by approximately 24,000 hectares (from 34,000 to 58,700 ha). Roughly one-half
of the expansion occurred by transfer of land from the previous owner (mainly the Ministry of Forestry),
and one-half through acquisition of 'secondary title' wherein ownership remains with the Ministry of
Forestry or local collectives, and the Reserve assumes responsibility for ensuring that land uses (e.g.,
forest practices) are consistent with the objectives of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use. The
studies carried out during the project provided recommendations on zonation of the expanded reserve, but
completion of the zoning plan is still being prepared for government approval. The project also resulted
in the expansion of Stuhzitsa Reserve to 14,665 ha and in the creation of Cheremoshski Regional
Landscape Park (6,556 ha).
12.   The project funded preparation of a corridor plan to link the protected areas of the Ukraine
Carpathians region. This work, along with the inventory studies, provided specific recommendations for
expanding the reserve by an additional 20,000-30,000 ha in the next five years. The project implemented
those elements of the corridor plan that link the isolated old growth forest stands and were the focus of
the project.
13.   In support of the landscape planning activities, the project funded an inventory of the CBR's
biodiversity. The immediate practical use of the reserve inventory was to provide the scientific
justification needed for expansion of the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve. This inventory updated existing
information, addressed gaps in knowledge of the region's biodiversity, and extended the understanding of
the genetic diversity of several taxa. The inventory resulted in the identification of a number of new
species and detection of many species not previously known to exist in the Ukraine Carpathians. The
project results, excluding the reserve zonation activity which is on-going, were published in a book that
provides a baseline for biodiversity protection and management in the region for years to come. The
project inventory work provides the foundation for zoning the reserve according to Man in the Biosphere
(MaB) criteria and plans to further expand the reserve in the coming years.
14.   Several activities included in this program were complex, and posed a challenge to complete
within the project schedule. The project team responded well to these challenges, and completed the
activities with the assistance of professional development and training. The project was designed to use
GIS as a tool to assist the CBR in planning the reserve expansion and managing its biodiversity.
However, the combination of delays in getting the project underway and the lengthy period required for
GIS training and procurement of equipment left little time to make use of the technology during the
project. There is concern over whether sufficient staff resources are being devoted to making full use of
the GIS. Despite these delays and concerns, the GIS is in use for assisting with management planning of
the biosphere reserve, and there are plans underway to extend its use for protected area planning for the
larger Eastern Carpathian region.
15    Public Education and Awareness: The project financed preparation of a number of educational
brochures, booklets, and popular and scientific articles, as well as improvements to the educational
museum at the CBR headquarters. This museum is a focal point for environmental education and
awareness in the region, especially for middle school groups. These activities were considered by the
reserve director to be useful, although their desired impact (improved understanding of, and support for,
the mission of the CBR) is difficult to measure.
16.   In recognition of the achievements of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve, the Council of Europe
awarded the reserve the European Diploma in September 1997.



4
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   The project was affected by four main administrative factors that contributed to slow
disbursement and implementation: (i) the implementing agency, the MEPNS, was a new ministry with
relatively low capacity; (ii) because the project was the first Bank operation in Ukraine, and among the
first externally funded projects of its kind in the country, the Recipient was faced with learning the
Bank's requirements; (iii) the PIU was relatively inexperienced in office and project management; and
(iv) the PIU was faced with national regulations and bureaucracy regarding taxes, customs, and banking
that hindered implementation. While each of the project activities were influenced by these factors, the
GIS component was affected the most. Delays in the procurement of GIS equipment, from contracting to
delivery to release of the shipment by customs officials, necessitated two extensions to the closing date.
18.   Positive factors affecting the project included the strong ownership of the project, the high skills
of many of the technical'staff, and results orientation by various stakeholders in Ukraine.
E. Project Sustainability
19.   The central objective of the project was to improve the sustainability of forest ecosystems within
the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve by expanding the reserve, with the permission of local communities,
and by strengthening human resources through a professional development and training program and a
'learning by doing' project design. These project results are sustainable in the short to medium term. As
in many government sectors, the salaries for reserve staff are low and payments are often 6 months or
more in arrears. Despite these problems, there has been good continuity of staff and consultants at the
local and central (i.e., Kyiv) levels, which has contributed to maintaining the benefits of the project's
investments in human resources.
20.   State budgets for the CBR remain small as a result of the on-going difficulties of the Ukraine
economy, while maintenance of the larger biosphere reserve in the long term will require an increase in
staff resources and other baseline investments. The project investments will not be sustainable in the
mid- or long term without additional financing. The reserve receives fees for resource use (e.g. fuelwood
collecting and grazing), but given the reserve's small state budget, such fees are now used for basic
maintenance functions. In the absence of additional finances, specialized activities such as the GIS-
which require investments above and beyond staff salaries-will not be sustainable beyond the short
term.
21.   The project strengthened capacity within the CBR staff, the MEPNS and, the PIU to continue
with the project activities in different ways. The MEPNS has used the experience gained under the
project to develop its national program for conservation and sustainable development. The MEPNS has
also obtained international and national financing for projects to develop tourism in the Carpathian
Mountains and to expand the protected areas of the region. Building on the project management experience
learned under the project, the PIU now assists with the implemention of projects financed by the
Government of Ukraine, the Bank, and other donors. The Reserve Director has also been working with
regional authorities to establish an "Ecological - Economic District" that would provide special tax
incentives for sustainable development of the region. This proposal is currently being considered by the
Parliament.
F. Bank Performance
22.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory throughout preparation and implementation. During
implementation, the Recipient needed assistance mainly with procurement and several technical issues.



5
The project was supervised by Bank staff and consultants who provided satisfactory assistance to meet
these needs. Most Bank missions included forestry and biodiversity specialists, and the Bank provided
additional training in disbursement and procurement procedures and requirements. Several intensive
professional development and training programs were organized by the Bank on technical themes and on
nature-based tourism, which were well received by the participants, and which the Recipient and Bank
agreed were useful to the project. Although task management responsibilities of the project changed
within the first year of implementation, after this, the Recipient acknowledged the importance of the good
continuity in the Bank team responsible for the project.
23.   The total Bank resources spent on the project, including identification, preparation, supervision,
and completion, was approximately one-half of the grant amount. This ratio of Bank resources to the
total grant amount was too high, even though this ratio is strongly influenced by the small size of the
grant ($500,000). Whereas modest Bank resources were used for preparation of the project, the Recipient
needed substantial assistance with its implementation. The supervision budget was also increased by the
18 month extension of the closing date, which was needed to complete the GIS activities.
G. Recipient Performance
24.   The Recipient's performance was satisfactory. The project activities were implemented as
planned and all legal requirements were met. The project had a slow start as the Recipient learned Bank
procurement requirements (this being Ukraine's first Bank and GEF project). Subsequent delays resulted
from obstacles related to in-country conditions, and typically external to the MEPNS and the PIU. Those
responsible for implementation spent considerable time finding innovative solutions to the in-country
conditions that often made progress difficult. Early in the project, the Recipient established a PIU outside
of the MEPNS in response to the Bank's concern over the slow pace of implementation. This PIU
performed extremely well and, building on the experience developed under the project, now assists the
government and NGOs in implementing projects fnanced by the Government of Ukraine, the Bank, and
other donors.
H. Assessment of Outcome
25.   The outcome of the project was highly satisfactory. The project improved the ecological
sustainability of the forest protected areas network in the project region by expanding the reserve and the
capacity of the CBR staff and MEPNS to manage its resources. The project also established a strategic,
long-term mechanism for international cooperation and a broader vision for park management. Partly as
a result of the project, the reserve director is actively seeking to strengthen the role of the reserve in local
economic development. No data are available on the role of the reserve in the local economy, but thus far
its positive effects through attracting tourists are probably small.
26.   The MEPNS has used the results and lessons learned under the project in building its national
biodiversity conservation program, and to meet its obligations under the Convention on Biological
Diversity. The Recipient has used the experience gained under the project to implement three GEF-
funded projects: the Black Sea Environment Program, the Danube Delta biodiversity protection project
and an Enabling Activity small grant for the preparation of a national biodiversity strategy/action plan.
Currently, the MEPNS is preparing a GEF biodiversity conservation protection project in the coastal
ecosystems of the Azov-Black Sea coasts.
27.   Building on its experience with the project, the MEPNS has also obtained international and
national fnancing for projects to develop tourism in the Carpathian Mountains and to further increase the
area of forests of the region under protection or sustainable management.



6
I. Future Operations
28.   The project was the Bank's first project in Ukraine, and contributed to the development of a
balanced portfolio of Bank-managed environment projects in Ukraine. None of these are related directly
to the Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection project. Work in the project region is continuing on
several fronts. The CBR staff are building on the inventory, applied research, and local consultations to
define the strictly protected and economic use zones of the expanded reserve, in accordance with
Ukrainian regulations. The applied research activities financed by the project identified a number of
management actions that are now under implementation. Among these is the use of the GIS to assist in
further landscape level planning to link the protected areas of the eastern Carpathian Mountains. The
Recipient is currently developing a proposal for a follow-on GEF project that would further improve
forest management and biodiversity protection in the transboundary forests of the Carpathian countries.
J. Key Lessons Learned
29.   The lessons learned were discussed during a regional meeting involving participants of GEF
biodiversity projects from Belarus, Ukraine, Slovakia, and the World Bank. Based on discussion held
during the completion mission and at the regional workshop, the key lessons learned from the Recipient's
perspective are to be completed
a. Projects such as this should include a component on the role of public relations in reserve
management. Although local communities approved the expansion of the Carpathians
Biosphere Reserve, these approvals occurred at the local political level, and not necessarily
based on good understanding of the issues by the local community. Public relations activities
under the project would have improved the flow of information between local communities
and the reserve management.
b. The applied research component should have been designed to have greater direct application
to the management problems of the reserve, including the social and economic conditions of
the support zones.
c. Greater attention needs to be paid to integrating the project results with policies related to
forestry and taxation incentives for sustainable forest management.
d. Although it is appropriate to target large groups for some professional development and
training activities, some of these activities would have a greater impact if fewer people
received more intensive, longer term training.
Two key lessons learned from the Bank's perspective are:
a. Biodiversity and natural resources management projects in countries in transition should seek
to improve the project's replicability by integrating the results into policy frameworks at
local, regional, and national levels of government.
b. As in other GEF biodiversity projects in the region, a needs assessment of the PMU early in
implementation would have identified the need for training in office management and
business skills. Such training could have reduced early delays in implementation and given
greater time to the substantive work to be done.



7
Part II. Statistical Tables
Tables
1:         Summary of Assessment
2:         Related Bank Loans/Credits
3:         Project Timetable
4:         Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
6:         Key Indicators for Project Operation
7:         Studies Included in Project
8A:        Project Costs
8B:        Project Financing
9:         Economic Costs and Benefits
10:        Status of Legal Covenants
11:        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
12:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
13:        Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial      Partial        Neglgible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                    El             o               o                 0
Sector Policies                   I]                             I0
Financial Objectives              E               a              E                E
Institutional Development                                        El
Physical Objectives               O              it               O
Poverty Reduction                 E              E               E                 0
Gender Issues                                    E               E                 0
Other Social Objectives           n               0               o                o
Environmental Objectives           0             E               E                E
Public Sector Management           0             E               E                E
Private Sector Development        a              E               El                0
Other (specify)                   E              E               E                E



8
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability            Likely                   Unlikely                 Uncertain
(V)                       V)                       (V)
Higl
C. Bank Performance                Satisfactory             Satisfactory               Deficient
(e)                     (/)                       (/)
Identification                     E                                                  F]
Preparation Assistance              l                                                 1=1
Appraisal
Supervision                        Ei :il
Highly
D. Recipient Performance            satisfactory            Satisfactory               Deficient
(1)                     (/)                       (/)
Preparation
Implementation                                                                        F]
Covenant Compliance
Operation (if applicable)
Highly                                            Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome           satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(/). (e                     (e5



9
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                  Purpose           Year of approval      Status
Preceding operations
None.
Following operations
Black Sea Environment       Regional cooperation on       1992
Program                     restoration of Black Sea
Danube Delta GEF Biodiversity  Wetlands conservation      1993               S
Protection Project          and sustainable
development
Biodiversity Conservation in the  Biodiversity conservation   Under preparation
Azov-Black Sea Ecological   and sustainable
Corridor                    agriculture
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned          Date Actual!
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)        7/92                  7/92
Preparation                                       10/92                 10/92
Appraisal                                         11/92                 5/93
Negotiations                                      6/93                  6/93
Board Presentation                                6/93                  6/93
Signing                                           6/93                  7/93
Effectiveness                                     9/93                  10/93
Grant Closing                                     12/95                 3/97



10
Table 4: Grant Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal estimate         50.00   250.00  500.00     -
Actual                     17.85   218.70  438.70   585.0
Actual as % of estimate    35.70    87.50   87.70     -
Date of final disbursement: July 8, 1997
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
not applicable for GEF projects
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
not applicable for GEF projects
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                            Purpose as defined at   Status*  Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
1. "Carpathian Biosphere     Monograph summary of        C        Technical justification
Reserve"                     project-funded applied               of protected area
research and protected areas        expansion and
planning.                           management.
2. "Ukrainian Natural Resources  Plan for integration of  C       Plan to be implemented
Potential"                   conservation biology activities      in future.
in forestry curriculum.
3. "Monitoring Methods In    Standardization of monitoring  C     Findings and
Carpathian National Parks and    activities in transborder        approaches integrated
Reserves" (proceedings of an    reserves.                         into on-going
international workshop)                                           monitoring activities in
Ukraine, Poland, and
Slovakia.
4. Video "Transcarpathian    Public education and        C        Video shown on
Biodiversity Protection Project"  awareness                       national television, but
magnitude of impact
not studied.
C, completed



11
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimates
(US$ Thousands)           (US$ Thousands)
Item                                  Local Foreign  Total      Local Foreign  Total
costs   costs             costs  costs
A. Biodiversity Protection Program   105.8   42.3   148.1         64.0   33.0   97.0
1. Reserve Inventory                4.0   10.0   14.0           2.5   10.0   12.5
2. Acquisition Plan & Investigations  10.0    0.0    10.0       4.4    4.0   08.4
3. Flora and Fauna Inventory       20.0    2.1   22.1          20.6    4.0   24.6
4. Systems and Extinction Model     10.0    5.0    15.0         2.8    2.0   04.8
5. Genetic and Species Studies     35.0   10.0   45.0           9.5   12.3   21.8
6. GIS and Critical Habitat Analysis  3.0    7.0    10.0        4.0    0.7   04.7
7. Trans-Carpathians Planning       5.0    5.0    10.0          0.0    0.0    0.0
8. Development of National Policy   8.0    2.0    10.0          8.8    0.0   08.8
9. Curriculum Development          10.8    1.2    12.0          11.4    0.0   11.4
B. Management Resources Program       57.5  152.5  210.0          79.0  203.0  282.0
1. Computer Equipment& GIS          0.0  120.0   120.0         13.0   97.0  110.0
2. Transport and Communications    32.5   32.5    65.0         45.0  106.0  151.0
3. Assistance With Demonstration   25.0    0.0   25.0          21.0    0.0   21.0
C. Training Program                   93.0    2.0   95.0          23.0   83.0  106.0
1. Database and Computing           8.0    2.0    10.0          1.0    7.0    8.0
2. Prof. Dev. & Language Training   85.0    0.0   85.0         22.0   76.0   98.0
D. Public Education & Awareness       30.0   10.0   40.0          41.0   24.0   65.0
1. Completion of Visitor Center    20.0    0.0   20.0          20.0    0.0   20.0
2. Equipment                         8.0    2.0    10.0         8.0   24.0   32.0
3. Publications and Strategy        2.0    8.0    10.0          13.0    0.0   13.0
E. Project Management                 32.5    7.5   40.0          47.0   14.0   61.0
1. Asst Central GEF Unit-Kyiv       7.5    7.5    15.0         44.0    6.0   50.0
2. Uzghorod Project Mgmt. Unit     25.0    0.0   25.0          *3.0    8.0   11.0
Total Baseline Costs.                318.8  214.3   533.1
Physical Contingencies                16.6   10.0   26.6
Price Contingencies                   14.8    5.5   20.3
Total                                350.2  229.8   580.0        254.0  357.0  611.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimates
(US$ Thousands)             (US$ Thousands)
Item                         Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total
costs   costs               costs   costs
GEF Grant                    250      250    500         228      357     585
MacArthur Foundation Grant     0       10     10            -        -       -
Government                    70        0     70          26         -     26
Total                        330      260    580         254      357     611



12
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
not applicable for GEF projects
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement  Section    Class    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
GRANT    3.01(a)       5        C     Continuous             Recipient declares commitment to
project objectives and shall cany
out the project with due diligence
and with appropriate
administrative and financial
practices and shall provide funds
for the project.
GRANT    3.01(b)       5        C     Continuous             Recipient shall carry out the
Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
GRANT       3.02       5        C     Continuous             Recipient shall maintain in
Uzhgorod, under TOR satisfactory
to the Trustee, the Project
Technical Management Unit with
qualified and experienced staff
under a Project Manager whose
qualifications are satisfactory to
the Trustee.
GRANT       3.03       5       CD    Continuous              Recipient shall maintain in Kyiv,
in the Dept. of Protected &
Recreation Areas of the Min. of
Env. under TOR satisfactory to the
Trustee, the Admin. Coordination
Unit with qualified and
experienced staff under a chief
satisfactory to the Trustee.
GRANT       3.04       5        C     Continuous             Procurement of goods, works and
services for the Project to be
financed out of the GET Grant
shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 of the
Grant Agreement.
GRANT    4.01(a)       I        C     Continuous             Recipient shall adequately
maintain project records and
accounts of project operations,
resources and expenditures in
accordance with sound accounting
practices.



13
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant          Comments
Agreement  Section    Class    Status  Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date       Date
GRANT    4.01(b)       I       CD    Continuous              Recipient shall have the project
records and accounts (including
Special Account) audited by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Trustee and shall furnish audits
to the Trustee not later than four
months after the end of each year.
GRANT    4.01(c)       1        C     Continuous             Recipient shall adequately
maintain within a Statement of
Expenses records and accounts
for expenses incurred against
withdrawals from the Grant
Account Annual audits shall
include a separate opinion of such
records. Recipient shall retain
such records and evidence of
expenses at least I year after
Trustee receipt of applicable audit
report.
Covenant types:                                                                                Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                            8. = Indigenous people                   C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                10. = Project implementation not covered  CP = complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds         by categories 1-9                       NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                        11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                       12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                      regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                   13. = Other
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title           Describe and comment on lack of compliance
no lack of compliance was observed



14
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                   Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks    US$          Weeks        US$
Preparation to appraisal    na--      na--        12.5    37,100
Appraisal                   na--      na--         .3       6,000
Negotiations through Board    na--    na--         .6       2,000
approval
Supervision                 na--      na--        61.7   209,800
Completion                 8.7--   28,100--         9      29,800
Total                --        --                  284,700
NB Data on "planned" weeks not available. This started only in FY 1996
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating2    Types of
Stage of project cycle    Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm.  Problems3
Year  Persons  Field                      Status     objectives
Through appraisal          5/93     4       5        E,F,F,R
Appraisal through signing  7/93     3                 E, F,R
Supervision I             11/93     3       4         E,F,R            1            1          M
Supervision II            3/94      2       3          E,F             1            1
Supervision III            6/94     4       5        E,R,R,F        No 590       No BTO
Supervision IV            10/94     2       4          F,F,         No 590       No BTO
Supervision V             12/94     1       4           R             HS            1
Supervision VI            5/95      2       4          E,R             S           HS
Supervision VII           9/95      2       3          E, R         No 590      Only BTO
Supervision VIII          7/96      na      na         na          No record    No record
Supervision IX            10/96      1      12          R              S            S
Completion                9/97       1      6           R
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performance Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
E = Economist                    1= Satisfactory                   M = Managerial.
F = Forester                    S = Satisfactory
R = Resource Specialist          HS =.Highly satisfactory



Appendix A
AIDE MEMOIRE
UKRAINE
GEF Biodiversity Protection Project (TF028638)
Completion Mission of October 2-7, 1997
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. P. Brylski (ECSRE) and S. Berwick (consultant)
visited Ukraine from October 2-7, 1997 to carry out the Completion Mission for the GEF Biodiversity
Protection Project (the Project). The mission held discussions in Kyiv to discuss Project achievements
and the operational plan. The mission extends its appreciation and gratitude to the Ministry of
Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety (MEP) and Project Implementation Unit (PIU,
InterEcocentre) for the hospitality and assistance extended to it during this and all previous missions
during the Project implementation. The mission was supported by the Bank's Resident Mission in
Kyiv.
2.    The project closed on March 31, 1997. The objectives of the Mission were to (i) discuss
Ukraine's contributions to the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), to be prepared by the PIU
and (ii) collect data for the preparation of the Bank's ICR.
3.    This Aide Memoir records the views of the Recipient and the Bank on Project implementation
and assesses its sustainability. The Mission's findings regarding the views of the Bank are subject to
confirmation by World Bank management.
Project Implementation
4.    Project Closing and Disbursements. The Project closed on March 31, 1997 after one
extension, 17 months after the planned closing date. All funds in the Special Account have been
disbursed. According to the PIU, the Authorized Allocation has been fully recovered. The final
Project audit for 1997 expenditures have been completed and reviewed by the Bank.
5.    Formulating and Attaining Project Objectives. The goal of the Project was to conserve and
protect the biological diversity of the Eastern Carpathian Mountains region by employing modern
principles of conservation biology, linking biodiversity to economic well-being and desires of
protected area neighbors, and using an integrated regional approach. The specific Project objectives,
as discussed with the Recipient during the Completion Mission were to: (i) prepare an intensive
inventory of the biodiversity of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve to serve as a foundation for its
protection and management; (ii) expand the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (CBR) and zone the
biosphere reserve in accordance with Man in the Biosphere (MaB) conventions; (iii) demonstrate
principles of modem conservation biology and restoration ecology; (iv) manage forest fragments as
a single unit; (v) develop and implement legal, institutional, and administrative solutions to
management needs of the biosphere reserve; and (vi) promote regional (i.e., Eastern Carpathians)
cooperation in scientific research, monitoring and evaluation, ecological restoration, and protected
area management.
Ukraine GEF Biodiversity Project, Completion Mission, October 2-7, 1997  Page I



6.    According to the GEF program objectives, projects should also: (i) be innovative, where
possible; (ii) yield activities with demonstration value that can be replicated elsewhere; and (iii) be
sustainable.
7.    In the view of the Mission, the design of the Project was generally appropriate for achieving the
objectives. However, some participants voiced concern that several activities were too complex to be
completed within the Project schedule. This was exacerbated by the Project's slow start as the PIU
learned Bank procurement and contracting requirements (this being Ukraine's first Bank and GEF
project). A Project component that was not practical to implement as designed was the Geographic
Information System (GIS) activities. The Project was designed to use GIS as a tool to assist the
CBR in planning the reserve expansion and managing its biodiversity. Achieving this required that
the training and procurement of equipment be completed early in Project implementation, which was
not feasible.
8.    Achievement of Objectives. The Project objectives were successfully achieved. In the view
of the Mission, the Project performance was excellent in relation to the budget (USD$500,000). The
Project achievements are detailed in Annex 1.
9.    Project Sustainability. The prospects for sustainability of Project benefits and activities are
good for the majority of activities. The Project improved the sustainability of the CBR from a technical
conservation perspective, mainly through expansion of the CBR and building capacity of its staff.
More support for the Project's sustainability is seen in the follow-on activities which will seek to
replicate the Project results in other areas. The MEP is designing two transboundary biodiversity
conservation projects in the Carpathians Mountains which build on the lessons learned of the Project.
In the view of the Mission, the sustainability of the GIS activities is an area of concern. The GIS
activities are ready for implementation, but the CBR Director apparently has not committed the use
of staff resources to these activities. Indeed, there is concern whether the GIS equipment purchased
under the Project is being used. The Mission requested the GOU to include in its contribution to the
ICR a plan for the use of the GIS equipment.
10.   Given the difficult conditions of the Ukraine economy and the dependence of national parks
and other protected areas on state budgets, the financial stability of protected areas operations remains a
difficult issue. The MEP indicated to the Mission that state support to the CBR is sufficient to
implement the activities initiated under the Project.
11.   Contribution of the Recipient to the ICR. The Mission discussed the Government of
Ukraine's (GOU) contribution to the ICR with the MEP. The GOU's report provides valuable
observations and analyses of Project implementation. The report will be added as an annex to the
Bank's ICR, as well as GOU's comments on the Bank ICR.
12.   Key Lessons Learned. The ICR will contain a full account of the lessons learned under from
the Project and its results. Two important lessons learned are: (i) the administrative structure for
Project implementation should be as simple as possible, ensuring an efficient hierarchy of decision-
making; (ii) the applied research activities would benefit from better integration with the administrative
needs of the biosphere reserve.
Ukraine GEF Biodiversity Project, Completion Mission, October 2-7, 1997      Page 2



Annex 1
Summary of Main Project Objectives and Achievements
1.    Prepare an intensive inventory of the biodiversity of the Carpathians Biosphere
Reserve to serve as a foundation for its protection and management. The Project funded an
intensive inventory of the CBR's biodiversity. This inventory updated what was known at the
beginning of the Project but also addressed gaps in existing knowledge and provided new data on
genetic diversity. The immediate practical use of the reserve inventory was to provide the scientific
justification needed for expansion of the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve, and, later, to assist in zoning
the reserve according to MaB criteria. The Project results, excluding the reserve zonation activity
which is on-going, were recently published in a book that provides a baseline for biodiversity in the
region for years to come. The Project inventory work also provides justification for further
expansion of the reserve by an additional 20,000-30,000 ha in the coming five years. The inventory
activities were successfully completed as planned, although there could have been better integration
of the inventory results with the reserve expansion component.
2.    Expand the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve and zone the reserve in accordance with
MaB conventions. This Project component was successful, resulting as planned in expansion of the
Carpathians Biosphere Reserve by 24,000 hectares (from approximately 34,000 to 58,700 ha).
Roughly one-half of the expansion occurred by acquisition of land from the previous owner (mainly
the Ministry of Forestry), and one-half through acquisition of 'secondary title' wherein ownership
remains with the Ministry of Forestry or local collectives, and the Reserve assumes responsibility for
ensuring that land uses (e.g., forest practices) are consistent with the objectives of biodiversity
conservation and sustainable use. In addition, the Project funded landscape-level planning of
ecological corridors to link the protected areas of the Ukraine Carpathians region. This work, along
with the inventory studies, provided specific recommendations for expanding the reserve by an
additional 20,000-30,000 ha in the next five years.
3.    Demonstrate principles of modern conservation biology and restoration ecology. This
Project objective was met first through implementation of a professional development and training
(PD&T) program in modem conservation biology, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), and
'biobusiness' (income generation for protected areas, especially through nature-based tourism). The
practical implementation of the lessons from the PD&T program was evident in the expansion of the
CBR protected area and in the inventory outputs (see paras. 1 and 2, this Annex). In addition to
these, the Project funded a small demonstration activity in restoration ecology of mountain
meadows. The demonstration activity in sustainable use of meadow pastures compensated local
sheep-grazing groups for reducing the grazing pressure on reserve meadows by funding the costs of
moving sheep to a less sensitive meadow. The sheep relocation effort demonstrated the commitment
of the Project to developing sustainable development alternatives for buffer zone residents and
integrating their land use activities with regional nature conservation. This relatively small Project
activity was successful in demonstrating the role of the reserve as a partner with local resource users.
4.    Manage forest fragments as a single unit. An important challenge of the Project was to
improve the protection and management of the biodiversity in four disjunct fragments of old growth
forests within the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (CBR). Two viable approaches to managing these
Ukraine GEF Biodiversity Project, Completion Mission, October 2-7, 1997  Page 3



as a single unit are to expand the reserve by connecting these fragments and to improve forest
practices on non-Reserve lands in the region. The first approach was funded under the Project and
fully achieved. The second approach, which was not funded under the Project, will require a long-
term dialogue between the MEP, which manages the CBR, and the Ministry of Forestry, which
manages the state forest lands in the region.
5.    Develop and implement legal, institutional, and administrative solutions to management
needs of the Reserve. This Project objective was satisfactorily met through the following two
activities:
i) Encourage public support through outreach and education. The Project resulted in a large
number of educational brochures, booklets, newspaper articles, and scientific articles, as well
as improvements to the educational museum at the CBR headquarters. This museum is a
focal point for environmental education in the region, especially for middle school groups.
These activities were considered by the reserve director to be useful, although their desired
impact (improved understanding of, and support for, the mission of the CBR) is difficult to
measure.
ii) Review the need for legal and institutional reform in Ukraine for biodiversity conservation.
The Project funded preparation of a review paper on the legal basis for biodiversity
conservation in Ukraine. This paper was published in an enviromnental magazine and was
submitted as a position paper within the Parliament to initiate dialogue on needed reforms
and practices.
6.    Promote regional (i.e., Eastern Carpathian Mountains) cooperation in scientific
research, monitoring and evaluation, ecological restoration, and protected area management
The objective of promoting regional cooperation activities yielded satisfactorily results during
implementation, although indications are the program will be more fully developed during the
operational phase. Ukraine, Slovakia, and Poland are the three members of the Foundation for
Biodiversity Conservation in the Eastern Carpathians, and administer a USD$600,000 Trust Fund
established by the MacArthur Foundation and GEF. Under the Project, the tri-lateral foundation
prepared and adopted a strategy for biodiversity conservation in the region, agreed on the
establishment of the International Biosphere Reserve (IBR; still to be submitted to the three
governments for ratification), and has implemented a small grants program that draws on the interest
income of the trust fund. For the Ukraine Project, this cooperative program resulted in establishment
of a protected area around the Stuzica Reserve (the main Ukraine element of the IBR). Recently,
Ukraine hosted a delegation from the Council of Europe to discuss development of pilot sustainable
tourism activity in the region.
Ukraine GEF Biodiversity Project, Completion Mission, October 2-7, 1997    Page 4



Appendix B
Ministry for Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety of Ukraine
Completion Report
Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection Project
Kyiv
1998



A. Project context
A.1.The Global Environmental Facility (GEF):
A.l.l.Purpose
The Eastern Carpathians share transboundary ecosystems. The programs developed for their integrated
management are of international importance. The global significance of the areas initially selected is confirmed
and supported by their designations by UNESCO and the WWF (International), being identified among the
"existing ecological bricks" of Europe.
In its efforts to preserve global biodiversity, the GEF has encountered more of the transboundary issues being
addressed in this project. It has also encountered the need to balance in-situ and ex-situ preservation with
innovative techniques. In particular, the project has faced the conflicting demands of a resident population which
can be either a force for further eroding biodiversity or a potent ally in its preservation. In these ways, the
progress of this project has germaned to ongoing activities of the GEF and has utility as a case study in trying
to incorporate community participation.
A.1.2. Objectives were:
(a) Incorporate this small Ukrainian GEF project ($500,000) as an add-on to the proposed Slovak
Biodiversity Protection Project (GEF $2.3 million).
The innovation being supported under the Ukrainian project was threefold:
- this is the first GEF project in the Ukraine;
- the first trilateral transboundary project supported under the GEF;
- the first three-country Trust Fund to be organized for biodiversity protection. The MacArthur Foundation
of Chicago, Illinois has contributed $300,000 to initiate this Carpathian Biodiversity Protection Trust Fund.
(b) Support the Ukrainian portion of the overall trilateral effort (Ukraine, Poland and Slovakia) to protect
habitat fragments, stop species loss and upgrade habitat management.
(c) Develop and implement the legal, institutional and administrative settings to achieve in the long term
protection of the area in Ukraine as well as the abutting zone in Poland and the Slovak Republic.
The project started with an ecological respective and included both in-situ and ex-situ components to
conserve biodiversity. This entailed a program approach involving scientific study of the flora and fauna of the
selected key endangered forests, including threats to their viability from human pressures, and developing
options to ensure the conservation of species considered at risk.
A.2. Ukraine's Forests. The area of lands of the Forest Fund of Ukraine (including forested and non-
forested areas reserved for forestry and forest management) is ca. 10,000,000 ha. Of this total
area, 8,600,000 ha are covered by forest vegetation; the rest of the territory consists of lands of agricultural use,
as well as bogs, wetlands, sands, and areas planned to be forested in future.
The percentage of forest area in Ukraine is 14.3% of the total area of the country (compare to 28% in 1850 and
45% by the end of the first millennium A.D.). Forest plantations and artificial forests
constitute 40% of the total forested area. The total amount of timber resources is estimated at 1,300,000,000 (1.3
billion) cubic meters. Average timber amount is ca. 153 cubic m per 1 ha, and
average annual increase is ca. 4.2 cubic m.
Almost all forests of Ukraine are situated in zones of negative impact of industrial pollution. Much harm was
caused to forests by the Chornobyl catastrophe. More than 3,500,000 ha of forests are affected by radioactive
contamination.
The Carpathians contain one quarter of the flora of Europe and many endemic and medicinal plants useful to
mankind. The largest remaining European stands of virgin beech forest (ca. 20.000 ha) is standing in the
Carpathians. This is a remarkable natural resource for the rest of Europe, which has lost such undisturbed areas.



2
B. Project goal, objectives and description
B.1. The goal of the project was to control, understand and manage the forest fragmentation process in the
Carpathian Biosphere Reserve (CBR) to ensure the long-term presence of viable populations of flora and fauna
that are sensitive to habitat loss.
B.2. The project objective was to demonstrate the principles of modern conservation biology and
restoration ecology in Ukraine in addition to adopting and implementing successful park planning,
management and biodiversity protection of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve (CBR). The project focused
on the linkages of habitat fragments, species loss, and habitat management.
The project was to develop and implement legal, institutional and administrative interventions to link the
isolated reserved components of the CBR in order to maximize the opportunities for biodiversity conservation.
This was to be achieved by a range of interventions including planning, implementation of wildlife corridors
and the development of extension and public awareness.
This GEF-Biodiversity project was linked with a similar GEF project in the Slovak Republic along the
common border in the Carpathian mountain system. The design of the project reflected the
need to add to this Slovak project as the maintenance of the ecosystem shared by all three countries and
required input from Ukrainian conservationists.
B.3.Project description:
(a) a Biodiversity Protection Program that has initiated a range of activities including: inventory
(biological and geographical), a systems extinction model, genetic studies, GIS critical habitat analysis and a
Transcarpathian Planning Group.
The program has included the development of a national policy on incentives and easements
for select land uses which buffer the protected areas. To ensure the longer term maintenance of some of these
innovative approaches, a plan and curriculum has been developed for the inclusion of the study of conservation
biology in the tertiary forestry curricula, as forestry is the base qualification for most of the mountain natural
resource managers;
(b) a Management Resources Program to enable coordinated management of the discontinuous reserved
areas of the Carpathians Biosphere Reserve and the implementation of the above protection program. These
investments included: (i) computer equipment and GIS facilities, (ii) provision of transport and communications
for enforcement, protection and management, and (iii) limited assistance with demonstration activities;
(c) a Training Program that included development of communications skills (extension, public education,
interpretation and media relations), language training, data base and computer training, park planning and
management training; and,
(d) a Management Program that included assistance to support a joint Ukraine GEF unit (both for the
Danube Delta GEF and this project) within the Department of Protected and Recreation
Areas and the establishment of a small Project Unit at the administrative center in Uzhgorod.
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives
C.l.The objectives of the project were clearly defined and they took into account the social, economic,
institutional and financial aspects of the real needs for the preservation of biodiversity in the region of the
Carpathians. They have been designed in a way to supplement and improve as well the existing in Ukraine
approaches to establishing and maintaining protected areas, gaining the support of the public and environmental
NGO's for biodiversity protection, developing cooperation with Poland and the Slovak Republic in achieving
certain objectives of the Project, particularly in establishing and maintaining the International biosphere reserve.



3
C.2. During the implementation of the project new objectives were defined:
* in the frame of the project extend the area of the CBR and create a new Regional Landscape Park
"Cheremoshski";
* lay the foundation for investigations in the area of the CBR in such a way as to embrace all levels of
biodiversity, including community, species, population and genetic diversity, and present results suitable to be
processed by a GIS. This assigmnent was extremely important from the standpoint of a holistic approach to the
protection and management of biodiversity.
D. Achievement of Objectives
a. Project Objectives:
a.l. On the whole all the objectives of the project have been achieved. The new ones on the extension of
protected areas have been achieved as well.
However, in the course of the implementation process certain actions had to be changed in order to achieve
the goals of the project. These changes were influenced by:
* lack of relevant legislation (e.g. considering the use of natural resources in ecological corridors);
* re-estimation of priorities, consequently of the funds allocated to certain components of the project
(considerable extension of the subcomponent "Transport and Communications" taking
into account its importance for strengthening the management of the fragmented area of the CBR);
* changes in governmental regulations of financial affairs, forcing the transition of the overall coordination of
the project implementation from the Kiev and Uzhgorod PCU's to the Center for
the Implementation of International Ecological Programs (Interecocentre);
* no allocation of funding by the Project for producing the documentation concerning the extension of the
protected area of the CBR and obtaining approvals from the land-users (the costs were covered by the
Government of Ukraine; this funding was additional Ukraine's contribution to the Project and has not been
included to the total project cost).
The changes made to certain actions were due to the specific economic and legal conditions in Ukraine,
capacity of the CBR and extent to which biodiversity is protected in the Carpathian region. However, these
changes had a positive impact as far as they provided an integrated approach and the realization of the program
and its subcomponents were planned in a way to achieve the most important results by minimizing the costs.
a.2.The Biodiversity Protection Program (BPP) was the key one in the project and its successful fulfillment was
vital for achieving a number of Project objectives. For that reason the following was planned:
*to involve many as possible participants, which already had experience working in the area of the CBR, in
order to amalgamate the results of their previous investigations with newly obtained data;
* establish the scientific backgrounds for the extension of the CBR and work out practical recommendations for
preserving particular plant and animal species and biodiversity in general;
* for purposes of optimizing the extension of the CBR and developing a network of protected areas in the region
connected by ecological corridors it seemed necessary to investigate several
projects of such a network;
*organize the system of hiring scientists, in a way to increase so the personal responsibility and implementation
efficiency, allowing to keep costs lower than they had been planned.
All these mentioned objectives were realised. The number of the participants involved in the Program
totaled 143, representing staff of research institutes, universities, the CBR and some other organisations.
Relevant reports, project proposals, publications and the monograph "The Biodiversity of the Carpathian
Biosphere Reserve" have been prepared. A curriculum on "Management of natural resource use" has been
developed together with a corresponding syllabi and included to university and forestry school curricula.
a.2.1.The Biodiversity Protection Program (BPP) focused first and foremost on the inventory of plant and
animal wildlife, considering community, species, population and genetic levels of diversity, and took a look as



4
well on landscape diversity. This project greatly extended the knowledge about the biodiversity of all the massifs
of the CBR, including the Stuzhitsa Massif.
The accomplished inventory became to foundation for plans aiming for the extension and management of
the CBR and the protection of biodiversity. Additional investigations were carried out on the development of
the zonation of the CBR and the preservation of biodiversity in the region of the Carpathians, on connections
between the massifs and the design of ecological corridors, on the local distribution of certain plant and
animal species (brown bear, lynx, otter, wild cat, golden eagle, peregrine, capercaillie etc.), the condition of
their populations and possible loss of species. These investigations have given the vision for the future
development of the CBR, the development of nature conservation in the Carpathian region, and the
management of biodiversity conservation. Partially the results of the BBP have been realized, however the
main work is still ahead and will be carried on for many years.
a.3.The main achievements of the BPP and the support coming from the Ministry for Environmental Protection
& Nuclear Safety of Ukraine (MEPNSU), local authorities and the Administration of the President of Ukraine,
were:
* the preparation and conclusion of the Decree of the President of Ukraine about the extension of the area of
the CBR by 24,315 ha (now the area of the CBR totals 58,700 ha);
* extension of the Stuzhitsa Massif, a constituent of the transboundary biosphere reserve, from 2,592 ha up to
14,665 ha;
* the creation of the Regional Landscape Park "Cheremoshski", totaling 6,556 ha.
a.4.The expansion of protected areas and the creation of new protected sites greatly facilitated increased
connectivity of isolated massifs of the CBR and the development of a network of
protected areas in the Carpathian region. The management of the remaining isolated massifs has significantly
improved on one hand due to the conducted scientific investigations and the
recommendations they have produced, and on the other to the significant upgrading of communication abilities
by the acquisition of vehicles and the installation of a radio-telephone system covering the total area of the CBR
together with the Stuzhitsa Massif.
a.5.This, however, has not eliminated the necessity for creating ecological corridors in certain places. The
BPP has worked out relevant project proposals for establishing a network of protected areas in the Carpathians
interconnected by ecological corridors. The MEPNSU in the meantime is working on a decision document for
the Government of Ukraine, setting the framework for the nature protection regime within ecological corridors.
a.6. Demonstration activities undertaken to show the advantages of sustainable use of natural resources
and benefits of environmental restoration were also successfully achieved. In the frame of the project training
activities involved the staff personnel of the CBR, ministries, scientific institutions, the Interecocentre, and
foresters. The subjects includes those mentioned above and as well covered the application of GIS, conservation
biology, land use planning, biobusiness issues, modem approaches to establishing protected areas etc.
On one side the results of the training impacted the extension and creation of new protected areas, and on the
other the training of specialists had a facilitating effect in other parts of Ukraine, in particular for the GEF
Project "Biodiversity of the Danube Delta", and the obtained knowledge and skills were used to a certain extent
as well for preparing governmental
decisions concerning biodiversity conservation.
a.7. The second constituent of this objective, and also for resolving some conflicting requirements of the local
people, a sheep farm was moved at the cost of the project to another place, satisfying the farmers and providing
thus better conditions to the CBR for nature protection. The locals were compensated by the construction of new
sheep-cote and road leading to the pasture. All together this had a very positive effect and assisted in obtaining
the approvals from the local people for extending the area of the CBR.
It should be noted that understanding was established with the local people by staff personnel of the
MEPNSU, the CBR, scientific institutions, and by the regional and district authorities.



5
Together they did much to raise public awareness to nature conservation issues and carried out a number of
seminars and meeting with the public. The project has laid a good foundation for the cooperation with the local
people and winning them as friends.
a.8.Objectives concerning the legal, institutional and administrative impacts on the linkage of isolated
massifs of the CBR and maximizing the possibilities for biodiversity conservation were accomplished in
several directions.
First and foremost the extension of the CBR and the creation of regional landscape parks have been
confinned juridically, according to the Ukrainian law. Decisions have been made at various
levels of authority to enhance these areas and support their proper performance. Under the Public Awareness
Program (PAP) many leaflets, newspaper articles, booklets, envelopes, magazines,
videos, and scientific papers were produced, the exhibition of the visitors center at the Headquarters of the CBR
was completed, and a new curriculum on conservation biology for students has been
established. Together these activities were important for winning the support of the local people and forming a
favorable attitude to biodiversity conservation.
The Project had a tight connection with the Slovak GEF project. Several meetings took place, so the sides could
be acquainted with each other, and together with Polish and Slovak collegues a strategy has been worked out for
the preservation of biodiversity in the trilateral biosphere reserve "The Eastern Carpathians". The Ukrainian side
has established the Regional Landscape Park "Stuzhitsa" and participated in establishing the trilateral fund
"Conservation of Biodiversity in the Eastern Carpathians".
b. GEF Objectives
b.1.The global significance of this project is evidenced by the uniqueness of the area of the CBR and by the fact
of the reserve being awarded the European Diploma by the Council of Europe in 1997.
b.l.1. Sustainability of the results of the project are determined by the adoption of administrative decisions of
various level of authority, the changes in the world outlook and training of the personnel of the CBR, ministries
and scientific institutions, fruitful awareness work with the local people, NGO's and representatives of the local
authorities. In particular the project had a certain influence upon the speeding-up of the ratification by Ukraine
of such international agreements as the UN Convention on Biodiversity (ratified in November of 1994) and the
Ramsar and Bern conventions (both in October, 1996). For the sake of the long-term protection of nature the
government of Ukraine and Poland signed an Agreement of Cooperation on the 24.01.1994, a similar
ministerial agreement has been signed by Ukraine and the Slovak Republic on the 30.09.1994.
The preparation of an inter-governmental Agreement between Ukraine, Poland and Slovakia on establishing the
transboundary biosphere reserve "The Eastern Carpathians" is on approach to its final stage. The Carpathian
Biosphere Reserve was subordinated to the Ministry for Environmental Protection & Nuclear Safety of Ukraine
by a decision made by the Ukrainian Parliament in 1994.
New legal documents concerning nature resource use have been worked out and the previous ones have been
amended. Amendments have been done as well to the Crime Code of Ukraine etc.
This incomplete list of documents that have been influenced by the Project shows the increasing capacity in
Ukraine for biodiversity conservation at the state level.
b.1.2. Sustainability of the Project on the site is provided to a certain extent by the programs for
training and development, and also by teaching how to run biobusinesses in protected areas.
b.2. Innovative features of the project were:
* this was the first project of the GEF and the IBRD in Ukraine;
* the first trilateral transboundary project;
* the first international project in Ukraine for protection biodiversity, which stressed these issues among
various sectors of society;
* the frst trilateral trust foundation was established.
b.3.The demonstrative value of this Project is important to Ukraine for several reasons.
The Project:
* has shown the successfulness and efficiency of work with the IBRD;
* has demonstrated modem and advanced approaches and technologies for the protection biodiversity;



6
* has allowed to upgrade the professional skills of scientists, CBR staff and persons responsible for decision-
making;
* technically strengthened the CBR;
* greatly intensified the cooperation with Poland and Slovakia in the frame of biodiversity protection;
* the Project was of unique character, however it created the necessary conditions for the implementation of
the GEF project "Biodiversity of the Danube Delta", which faced much more complex tasks.
c. Project Performance
c.1.The performance of the project met a lot of difficulties. The following ones should be noted:
a the starting time of the project coincided with the transition of Ukraine to a market economy. The shortage of
goods in the shops hampered the procurement. The inflation rate reached up to 1000% per year, so the
implementation and spending of funds had to be planned in a way to minimize the possible losses;
* topographic maps had to be adjusted to the needs of the CBR;
* there were uncertainties regarding tax privileges for the IBRD grants;
* laws and regulations conceming cost spending and reporting in Ukraine changed quite frequently (even
within a year);
* in some cases there was poor responsibility and several times contracts were violated by enterprises.
It should be noted that these difficulties were surnounted due to the fruitful, coordinated and efficient work of
the World Bank, the MEPNSU and the implementation organization Interecocentre.
c.l.l. The staff of the World Bank should be highly praised for their work on defining and preparing the project,
concluding the agreement between the IBRD and Ukraine, and for the supervision of the project performance.
c.2. Participatory management
The project was accomplished due to the efforts of hundreds of people and organizations, including ministries,
NGO's, scientific institutions, universities and commercial enterprises. However the key factor was the
involvement of the local population, where protected sites were established. These were established where a
compromise was reached with the communities.
c.3.The following lessons were leamed in result of the implementation of the project:
* modem knowledge and advanced technologies for the protection and management of biodiversity;
* experience of work according to the rules of the GEF and IBRD;
* the upgrading of professional skills of the CBR staff and other key persons;
* a system for the selection and involvement of researchers, increasing the efficiency of their work and raising
responsibilities, and lowering the costs of research;
* creation and development of the implementation organization - Interecocentre, which has gained the
necessary experience and knowledge for the implementation of other GEF projects;
* the small amount of the initial payment on the Special Account (UDS 50,000.0), which slowed down the
implementation process;
* unstable tax legislation and uncertainty concerning the tax privileges for the GEF and IBRD projects;
* difficulties in introducing GIS to reserves and the absence of appropriate topographical maps.
d. Monitoring and Evaluation
The World Bank carried out on a regular basis the monitoring and evaluation of the project performance. This
was highly efficiently done by the bank. The MEPNSU also permanently controlled and supervised the process
of the implementation of the project.
E. The next steps
"Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection Project" was the first in Ukraine GEF and IBRD project. The
accomplishment of this project gave exceptional useful experience. It provided the chance to have access to the
rich experience of biodiversity protection all over the world, strengthen the CBR, but the main accomplishment
of the project is the change in the minds of the CBR staff, scientists, ministry staff conceming biodiversity
protection. The potential knowledge and skills gained during the project implementation now should be realized
in many directions. Among these the following should be mentioned:



7
* continuation of the cooperation with Poland and Slovakia concerning biodiversity protection in the
transboundary International Biosphere Reserve, supporting the trilateral fund etc.;
* start the search for transboundary cooperation with other neighboring countries and to create shared reserves,
cooperate for the biodiversity protection;
* revise the approach of the MEPNSU to the organization of biodiversity conservation in the Carpathians;
* continue to extend the network of protected areas in the Carpathian region using the gained knowledge;
support these activities by involving governmental and international funds, private businesses.
The following measures should be undertaken by the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve:
* regulatory documents concerning the protection regime in the newly joined areas should be worked out and
approved by the appropriate authorities;
* start the work on a management plan for the CBR;
* undertake measures to increase the role of the public in decision-making concerning the protection of
biodiversity;
* develop biobusinesses in the region (ecotourism, hunting etc.);
* develop a plan for the efficient use of the GIS.
The coordination of the implementation of the Project has been undertaken quite well. There has been tight
cooperation with all branches of authority, starting from the Administration of the President of Ukraine and
ending up with the local authorities. For instance, the extension of the protected area of the CBR could be
realized only by the support coming from the highest level. Thanks to the supervising role of the MEPNSU and
its regional departments in Uzhgorod and Chernivtsi it became possible to create favorable conditions for the
project implementation, needing tedious work with the local people. The local authorities greatly helped in
accomplishing the demonstration activities and were cooperative in extending protected areas and creating new
ones. A good job was done by the PCU's in Uzhgorod and Kiev, showing their professionalism and ability to
fmd the right solution under difficult circumstances concerning inadequate tax regulations relevant to such kind
of project. On the whole the efficient coordination of the project implementation has built the foundation for the
cooperation with the IBRD in the future.
C:\My Documents (OO1)\Zvit\ICR English CWio ri E&6Y&l1e?i6 Y16teo6.doc



Administrative Summary
The coordination of the implementation of the Project has been undertaken quite well. There has been
tight cooperation with all brnaches of authority, starting from the Administration of the President of
Ukraine and ending up with the local authorities. For instance, the extension of the protected area of the
CBR could be realized only by the support coming from the highest level. Thanks to the supervising role
of the MEPNSU and its regional departments in Uzhgorod and Chernivtsi it became possible to create
favorable conditions for the project implementation, needing tedious work with the local people. The
local authorities greatly helped in accomplishing the demonstration activities and were cooperative in
extending protected areas and creating new ones. A good job was done by the PCU's in Uzhgorod and
Kyiv, showing their professionalism and ability to find the right solution under difficult circumstances
concerning inadequate tax regulations relevant to such kind of project. On the whole the eficient
coordination of the project implementation has built the foundation for the cooperation with the IBRD in
the future.



Main Publications of the Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection Project
1. Colour booklet "Carpathian Biosphere Reserve", 2000 copies
2. Magazine "Green Carpathian", N 1-2, 1995, 1000 copies
3. Series of the envelopes with a symbol of Carpathian Bioshpere Reserve, 10,000 copies
4. Proceedings of the International Conference "Monitoring Methods in Carpathian National
Parks and Reserves"
5. Scientific Monograph "Carpathian Biosphere Reserve", 300 copies
6. Magazine "World in Your Palms" - Pearl of Ukraine - Carpathians, N2(4), 1997, 2000 copies
7. Monograph V. Rudenko, A. Shvydenko "Ecological Bases of Nature Utilization", 500 copies
8. An Evaluative Reference-Book V. Rudenko "Ukrainian Natural Resources Potential, 1000
copies
9. More than 200 newspaper articles and scientific publications have been published in mass-
media magazines.
The video film was made about implementation and results of the "Transcarpathian Biodiversity
Protection Project " (English and Ukrainian). This film was made on the base of CBR's
videostudio



ID#142, From :202-473-8787                                     20JUL98,11:35:26PageOMN03
1-M lterecocentrerotSenkoKiW        FIN  NU.: SGg                     Jul. L'1 JX^d Lb: -VMpi
Appendix C
M1l l1C7rE.PC`M0                                     MINISTRY
OXOPOI IU HABKOJ1IIHbOro            rIA              FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
I IpHPOi-OrO CEPEAOs A             l          PROTECTION AND NUCLEAR SAFETY OF
-A ANEPHOI f1 SnIiCl YK?AIBi                                UKRAINE
XpeuIanrin, 5,252601, B i-sl - I                5 Kbrcshchatyk r., Rz2vol, Be I
Tr:: +380 44 223 06 4442 24 28,                   phone: +380 44 228 06 44/226 24 28
gPaKc: +380 44 229 83 83                           fax: +380 44 229 83 83
E-mail Intercet: mcp,t3anep.FreeNct.Gev.UA        E-mail Intemcet mepC&mFp.retjCjcv,UA
Xs    o S79R - 2To: Phillip Brylski
Rural Development and Environment Sector
Europe and Central Asia
Number of pages: 2 (incl. this page)
Fax Number, (202)-614-05-86
Subject: TF- 28353, Comment letter on the Bank's and Ukraine's ICR.
Dear Dr. Bryiski,
The Ministry f6r Environmental Protectinn and Nuclear Safety of Ukraine
has pleasure to inform you that the draft of the Bank's Implementation
Completion Report has been drawn up at the high level. We consider it
necessary to niote that the Ministry doesn't have any essential remarks to this
document. It describes with the sufficient fullness the achievements and
shortcomings of the fulfillment of the Bank's first project in Ukraine.
The Ministry very highly appreciates all the Bank's efforts undertaken and
considers that in the Table I: Summary of Assessments, the mark "Satisfactory " in
the items "Appraisal" and "Supervision" /C. Bank Performance? should be changed
to the "Highly satisfactory".
The Ukraine's ICR cz6iiply with all thoe eeded reqniircmtnts.
Sincerely yours,               Ya.movchan,
Deputy Minister
Litvin 228-24-26



IERD 25416
22-                                     _]        K) f uS                                                                                                        24>                      
LAND  T. Tk.                                                                         ~~~~~~~~UKRAINE
FOREST BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION PROJECT
TRANSCARPATHIANS OBLAST                                                  49^
PROJECT AREA
SLOVAK   j  STUZICA  <-    CARPATHIANS BIOSPHERE RESERVE BOUNDARIES
SLOVAK                                                                                                                   B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUJNDARY OP "STUZICA' NATIONAL RESERVE
ZONES:
CORE
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                            BPFFER
TRANSITION ECONOMIC ZONE
:b T. SL                                             -    MAIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
MAJOR RAILROADS
N                          ---- ~~~~~~~~~~OTHER RAILROADS
\ T)-  .. k-k,                        0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-   RIVERS
T  -   OBLAST BOUNDARY
/ z gorod                                                                                                      I J  , 000: :000   t  :   \   00  |  -.-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
         10         20        32
RILOMETERS
ci.'Po ~ ~   ~               ~              ~              ~              ~            ~ ~ -- 
-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      
N..NAL AE IV ;   \ fd0000 f000   tDu0t;0X S                                                                                                                                          /F
S    ;~~~~~ELRS                                                       V:inogmdovXX<<<LL;fL    00 r-5
POLAND                                                                                                                                                                       IN,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CJ*KLZHNK
k / ~~UKRAINE ]0HNAY,   ;  S,_~#@  
SLOVARY                                     HUNGARY)<                  o vaMr                                         ROMANI                 i,llu                                _\                                                DCEBR19
T_  _,
HUGAYk RyOMAI                                                                                                     ROMANI/
-~~~~L -~~~~~ g  7  NTFRNATONAL  Boregava~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sihe
OBLAST POLNOARY~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEME19



