                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 26803




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (CPL-37420; SCL-3742A; SCPD-3742S)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$55.0 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                           FOR THE

                                     DAM SAFETY PROJECT




                                       November 14, 2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective September 2003)

                                         Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                                          Rp.1,000,000 = US$ 118.5
                                                 US$ 1.0 = Rp.8,438

                                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                    April 1 - March 31 (up to year 2000)
                                   January 1 - December 31 (from 2001)

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BDSF         -    Basic Dam Safety Facility
CAS          -    Country Assistant Strategy
CDMU         -    Central Dam Monitoring Unit
DBA          -    Dam Break Analysis
DGWR         -    Directorate General of Water Resources (former DGWRD)
DGWRD        -    Directorate General of Water Resources Development
DMU          -    Dam Monitoring Unit
DSC          -    Dam Safety Commission
DSO          -    Dam Safety Organization
DSP          -    Dam Safety Project
DSU          -    Dam Safety Unit
EPP          -    Emergency Preparedness Plan
EIA          -    Environmental Impact Assessment
GOI          -    Government of Indonesia
ICB          -    International Competitive Bidding
ICOLD        -    International Commission on Large Dams
ICR          -    Implementation Completion Report
INACOLD      -    Indonesia Affiliation of the ICOLD
KEPMEN       -    Keputusan Menteri (Ministerial Decree)
Kimbangwil   -    Ministry of Settlement and Regional Development
Kimpraswil   -    Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructures (former MPW)
LA           -    Loan Agreement
Meneg PU     -    State Ministry of Public Works
MPW          -    Ministry of Public Work
MTR          -    Mid-term Review
NBF          -    Non Bank Financed
NCB          -    National Competitive Bidding
O&M          -    Operation and Maintenance
OMS          -    Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance
PLN          -    State Electricity Corporation
PMP          -    Probably Maximum Precipitation
PMF          -    Probably Maximum Flood
PMU          -    Project Management Unit
PWRS         -    Provincial Water Resources Services
SDA          -    Sumber Daya Air (Water Resources)
SAR          -    Staff Appraisal Report
WATSAL       -    Water Sector Adjustment Loan
WISMP        -    Water Resources and Irrigation Sector Management Project


                                       Vice President:            Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                     Country Manager/Director:                    Andrew Steer, EACIF
                        Sector Manager/Director:                  Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                     Ilham Abla, EASRD

                                         INDONESIA

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                      Dam Safety Project

                                     Loan No. 3742-IND


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

IBRD Map No. 25605

Project ID: P004010                                                  Project Name: DAM SAFETY
Team Leader: Ilham Abla                                              TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 14, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: DAM SAFETY                                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-37420; SCL-3742A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-3742S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation & drainage (74%); Central government administration
                            (26%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/07/1993                                     Effective: 08/23/1994                08/23/1994
     Appraisal: 09/27/1993                                         MTR: 09/22/1997                  09/22/1997
      Approval: 05/31/1994                                      Closing: 09/30/2000                 03/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Government of Indonesia/The Directorate General of Water Resources
                                           Development and Provincial Water Resources Services
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam Kaji
Country Director:               Andrew Steer                                   Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Anthony Cole (Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:             Ilham Abla                                     H. V. Voorthuizen
ICR Primary Author:             Ilham Abla; Theodore Herman


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    Context. The issue of a nationwide dam safety program in Indonesia arose prior to project
preparation in 1993 from long-term concerns and investigations into past failures (for example, that of the
Sempor Dam in 1967, when 127 lives were lost), deficiencies, potential hazards and remedial works
associated with the country's major reservoir structures, such as the Jatiluhur Dam. There were no
mandatory government policies, regulations or procedures requiring the continuation of timely monitoring,
analysis and evaluation of the safety of dams (large or small). In addition, based on its own project
experience with dams in Indonesia, the Bank was concerned that the physical condition of more than 95 of
the dams owned by the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) was declining because of insufficient
maintenance funding. Many dams were showing signs of deterioration and distress that could lead to
failures or increased safety hazards. In addition, the core activities of the Directorate General of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) focused on irrigation infrastructure, and the priority level for
operational management of 95 dams was variable over time. Meanwhile, by comparison, the State
Electricity Corporation (PLN) effectively monitored and maintained the nine hydroelectric dams and/or
generation facilities it owned/operated or shared with the DGWRD (e.g., Wadaslintang) as a core business
activity.

3.1.2    A 1992 study to inspect and assess the safety status of several dams "owned" by the MPW and the
extent of the remedial works required led to an inspection of 36 MPW-owned dams and a full evaluation of
the country's dam safety procedures. This resulted in MPW decisions: (a) to institute a country-wide dam
safety program by issuing in 1993 an MPW Ministerial Decree establishing the national Dam Safety
Commission (DSC); (b) to create a separate Dam Safety Organization (DSO) consisting of the DSC and its
Dam Safety Unit (DSU) with a staff of technical specialists; and (c) to prepare designs for remedial works,
including those for the Jatiluhur Dam. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR - in paragraph 1.5) described the
DSO as an independent regulatory body responsible for setting appropriate standards, carrying out periodic
inspections and evaluations of dam safety status, issuing noncompliance notices to dam owners, and
monitoring and providing certification of the corrective work. The DSO would also review the design and
construction of new dams to ensure their compliance with the necessary safety regulations prior to the
issuance of operations certificates. The SAR further envisaged the possibility that the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) would investigate the possibility of an independent source of funding for the regulatory
agency through fees paid by dam owners for the costs of inspection and certification (SAR paragraph 5.7).

3.1.3    The Project Objectives. The development objective stated in the SAR and the Loan Agreement
(LA) was " ... to reduce the risk of dam failures in Indonesia ...". The statement of Project Objectives in
the SAR (paragraph 3.1) describes the means for achievement of the objective as follows:

         "The main objective of the project is to reduce the risk of dam failures in Indonesia through: (a)
         establishment of dam safety institutions; (b) periodic inspections and safety evaluations of all large
         dams; (c) provision of basic safety facilities at existing dams where such provisions are now
         lacking; and (d) implementation of remedial works at dams with safety deficiencies. The dam
         safety program would start with inspection, evaluation and remedial work on the MPW dams and
         in due course be expanded into a national program covering all dams in Indonesia."

3.1.4    Assessment of the Development Objective. In view of the project context described above, the
project development objective and the means of its achievement were appropriately comprehensive and
relevant to the Bank's water sector strategy and rationale for involvement. It was in line with Government



                                                     - 2 -

objectives at the time and with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on April 12,
1994. The development objective was intended to contribute to: (a) the strengthening of public sector
management to protect against risk of dam failures; and (b) the effective management of water resources by
remedial works and the provision of safety facilities, as part of a coordinated Bank lending program for
water resources development supported by projects which included: (i) the Groundwater Development
Project (Loan 3588-IND); (ii) the Integrated Swamps Development Project (Loan 3755-IND); (iii) the
Watershed Conservation Project (Loan 3658-IND) and (iv) the Java Irrigation and Water Resources
Management Project (Loan 3762-IND). However, the intention to have the DSC and DSU evolve into an
independent and self-financing regulatory agency was not explicitly specified as part of the
institution-building component, rather it was only an expectation mentioned in the SAR (paragraph 5.7).
This longer-term target was realistically recognized as being an institutional development `process' rather
than an activity, and the achievements were formalized through two conditions in the LA specifying
nationwide jurisdiction for the dam safety regulatory agency and the implementation of an action plan for
funding its dam safety program (LA, Schedule 5, clauses 7(a) and 7(b)).

3.1.5    Overall, the development objective was challenging because of the staff capabilities and program
management capacity of the MPW's implementing agencies, the DGWRD and its Provincial Water
Resources Services (PWRS). Aside from the limited availability of adequately trained staff with dam
engineering experience, institutional development and regulatory activities constituted a new undertaking
for the MPW. The DGWRD (and its successor, the Directorate General of Water Resources - DGWR)
was unaccustomed to (and did not have staff experienced in) organizational management for effecting the
separation of the legal and organizational functions of `regulators' and `operators'.


3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The project's development objective was not revised during the life of loan.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The six "Detailed Project Features" described in the SAR (paragraphs 3.4 ­ 3.8) were consolidated
into four project components, as follows:

(a) Dam Safety Institutions - Institutional Strengthening (base cost ­ US$3.8 million). The component
included: (i) the establishment of a central dam monitoring unit (CDMU) in the DGWRD; (ii) the
establishment of Dam Monitoring Units (DMUs) in eight provincial water resources agencies, as well as in
three MPW-managed project agencies (Jatiluhur Authority (POJ), Brantas River Basin Corporation (PJT
Brantas) and the Begawan-Solo Project); (iii) institutional capacity building and operational support to the
DSC, DSU, CDMU and DMUs; and (iv) the provision of technical assistance (TA) for training, workshops
and seminars to the support staff of DSC and MPW involved in dam safety with a sub-component base
cost of US$1.2 million (SAR, paragraph 3.5).

(b) Basic Dam Safety Facilities - BDSF (base cost ­ US$7.9 million). This included the provision of dam
safety facilities, services and related TA for: (i) carrying out dam surveys and site clearing to obtain
information for detailed safety inspections; (ii) the provision of communications equipment and facilities;
(iii) the provision of instrumentation to record data relevant to the structural condition and operational
safety of dam structures; and (iv) carrying out emergency actions to ensure the safety of a dam.

(c) Remedial Works (base cost ­ US$65.0 million). This component covered all activities, including TA,
needed for carrying out remedial works for 93 MPW dams where detailed inspections had identified the



                                                     - 3 -

need for such works and for upgrading their safety condition (including the Jatiluhur Dam with separate
TA for supervision support). The remedial works and supervision for Jatiluhur Dam were estimated at 30
percent of the total component base cost.

(d) Project Management (base cost ­ US$5.0 million). This component provided funds to cover: (i) the
establishment and operation of a central Project Management Unit (PMU) with the necessary facilities and
equipment; and (ii) supporting TA (US$4.7 million) for institutional capacity building assistance to the
DSC, DSU, and the DMUs, and technical reviews of activities under the Basic Dam Safety Facilities and
Remedial Works components (SAR, paragraphs 3.8 and 3.9).

3.3.2    Assessment of Original Components. The components were reasonably well adapted to achieving
the development objective and, considering the issues described below, as much as possible endeavored to
address the capacity limitations of the implementing agencies. The design of the components was clearly
linked to the achievement of the development objective. Each component contained the key activities -
including the strategic emphasis on training needed to implement the component and achieve the
development objective. The descriptions of each component's activities in the SAR and its Annexes 2-5 are
consistent with international dam safety program practices and promote the standards of the International
Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD). The SAR framework for the overview of remedial works by DSUs
was appropriately designed. It was also in line with the Bank's OP 4.37 (Safety of Dams) and BP 4.37
Annex A (Plan for Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance, Instrumentation Plan, O&M Plan,
Emergency Preparedness Plan [EPP]), although these were not yet available during project preparation.
The component activities included annual technical audits as mentioned in the SAR (paragraph 4.12),
President's Report (PR - paragraph 13 (f)) and LA conditions. This approach was based on the experience
of DGWRD's weak quality management in earlier projects and the intention of the MPW to improve the
situation.

3.3.3    At the time of project preparation, the quality assurance of design and construction was not
properly practiced, in general, within the implementing agencies. Therefore, ensuring high standards for
remedial works and basic dam safety on smaller dams was bound to be demanding in the absence of a
MPW quality assurance system and presented a considerable risk of under-achievement (or failure).
Within the context of a viable emergency action framework, dam safety management is concerned mainly
with preventative maintenance and remedial works, periodic inspection, care for monitoring instrumentation
and the competent analysis of dam monitoring data. Management attention to these aspects in the context
of a dam safety program is demanding enough for the few large dams in Indonesia; it could be even more
difficult for smaller dams at the field level where less management attention and dam expertise exists
(particularly in dam instrumentation operation and surveillance) and logistics and funding are always in
short supply. A supporting TA was planned to assist in the review and supervision of the implementation
of the BDSF component.


3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    The Mid-Term Review in 1997 did not restructure the project or its components. However, only
30 percent of the targeted number (93 dams) of remedial works could be fully completed by March 1998.
In the interests of achieving a realistic outcome, the Bank recommended the cancellation of works for 25
low priority dams and this was agreed by the project's management. By the time of the original Loan
Closing Date of September 30, 2000, the physical targets for the BDSF and Remedial Works components
had been substantially met, with remedial works completed for 67 dams. However, both the implementing
agency and the Bank felt that much more work was required to advance the process of institutional
development and capacity building to achieve a sustainable dam safety program. This was the rationale for


                                                    - 4 -

the three extensions of the Loan's Closing Date (for a total of two and half years); to concentrate on
meeting institutional development goals and developing the various dam safety organization, training and
institutional aspects, while completing remedial works for five dams. However, the revised emphasis did
not specifically address the problem of deferred maintenance by dam owners.

3.4.2    Later in 2001, as institutional development progressed, the project began the Prototype Basin
Program with the purpose of strengthening operation, maintenance and surveillance (OMS) procedures to
promote sustainable dam safety programs for provincial DMU authorities in selected basins. The program
commenced on a trial basis and used a prototype (adaptable design) approach in three basins: (a)
Bengawan Solo Basin in Central and East Java (Delingan Dam and Gondang Dam); (b) Citarum Basin in
West Java (Jatiluhur Dam); and (c) Lombok Island (Pengga and Batujae Dam). To focus more sharply on
and to support the institution-building objective, a new sub-component incorporating local public
awareness on dam safety and community participation in dam maintenance was added in late 2001 for four
pilot dams (Dawuhan, Cenglik, Sermo and Dharma in East, Central, Yogyakarta and West Java,
respectively) during the first extension of the Loan Closing Date. The size of the dams was small enough,
below 20 meters in height (except for the Sermo Dam, at 55 meters). This was done by the amendment of
the LA to allow incremental expenditures for community assistance.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


3.5.1     The project's Quality at Entry is rated as "satisfactory", taking into account the prevailing Bank
operational guidelines and its: (a) consistency with GOI and CAS objectives; (b) complementary role in a
coordinated sector lending program; (c) adherence to the Bank's safeguard policies; and (d) general
reasonableness of assumptions on the demand for its outputs. The one area of weakness was the lack of
rigorous assessment of project risks and possible mitigation measures.             The preparation team was
optimistic about GOI support and the capacity of the implementing agency and its operational environment
to manage the project's complexity; however, it recognized the need for proper preparatory orientation and
training to be of critical importance in the first two years of implementation.

3.5.2     The SAR stated that "... the Dam Safety Commission would be the key body to guide the dam
safety program towards the national level with clear public accountability for safety while leaving
operational accountability with the dam owners ...". Project preparation did not include an institutional
expert with knowledge of the Indonesian legal and regulatory system to define the characteristics of a sound
regulatory commission under Indonesian law or to determine whether its envisaged development process
was adequate. The project risk assessment also did not include prospective risks on the project's scope and
its relation with the agency implementation capacity. In retrospect, articulation of these risk assessments
would have provided additional and meaningful results-oriented indicators for the project monitoring
framework (predating the adoption of the Logical Framework Analysis practice at the Bank).

3.5.3     The SAR (paragraph 6.3) states that "... there is a relatively small risk that it may take longer than
at present anticipated for the new dam safety institutions to become operational and for their staff to be
trained to the level required to manage nationwide program ...". This proved to be overly optimistic and
ambitious, especially for complex operations such as inspection, planning, execution or remedial works for
large dams. The high professional standards, capabilities and inter-agency coordination which exist in
countries having well established dam safety assurance programs were clearly not prevalent in Indonesia,
and the project intended to address this by initiating a period of intensive training in the first two years.




                                                       - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1       The overall project outcome is rated as `satisfactory'. The individual contributions of components
and sub-components to the achievement of the project's development objective are summarized in Table 4.1
below. The overall outcome is based on the achievement of the institutional aims of the project (a key
achievement) and their likely sustainable impact and where the institution building process and indicators
set by the project have mostly been attained. The investment cost for this component was small compared
to the BDSF component, but the achievements made have established a strong foundation for the long-term
sustainability of the dam safety program in Indonesia. The remedial works of the Jatiluhur Dam and the
dams in the Brantas Basin Corporation were highly satisfactory. Recognition is given to the government's
documented awareness of, and commitment to, the continuous development of the dam safety assurance
institutions and regulatory instruments which are very important to provide the necessary impetus for
longer-term sustainability. The new initiative of the participatory dam safety program (Model Dam) has
been partially effective in engaging the awareness of the surrounding communities concerning the
importance of dam safety. The introduction of the Prototype Basin program in three selected river basins
was another initiative to stimulate a full implementation of OMS in dam management. Overall, it is
important to emphasize that the project achieved a satisfactory rating despite being implemented in difficult
and uncertain times - especially during 1997-1999 and thereafter, which also witnessed major upheavals in
the organization and staffing of the implementing agency. Given the unstable country situation, some
shortcomings were inevitable. However, the project implementing units have achieved virtually all that
they set out to do during this very difficult time for the economy and for governance.

                                    Table 4.1 Summary of Project Rating by Component

Project Objective:                                                                       Rating by Component     Overall Project
To reduce the risk of dam failures in Indonesia                                          (Actual Project Cost)  Component Rating
                                                                                                               (Actual Project Cost)
1. Dam Safety Institutions:
- DSC is established and functional (S)
- DSU is established and functional (S)                                                         S
- DMUs are established after training but still need further support and capacity
building.(U)                                                                             (US$3.24 million)
- Periodic Inspections and Safety Evaluation undertaken infrequently only within the
physical
capacity of DSU (S)
2. Basic Dam Safety Facilities:                                                                                         S
- BDSF designs completed for 88 dams (S)                                                        U
- BDSF was installed in 74 dams but about 20 percent of the instruments are not fully                           (US$54.9 million)
operational (U)                                                                          (US$4.71 million)
- BDSF monitoring data was collected but inadequately evaluated by DMUs and
CDMU because of inadequate training (U)
3. Remedial Works:
- Jatiluhur Dam completed and Certified (HS)                                                    S
- Quality of remedial works in other smaller dams (72) is mostly satisfactory (S)
- Due to limited DSU capacity, remedial works for 72 dams were not certified (U)        (US$41.08 million)
4. Project Management:
- Administrative management (S)                                                                 S
- Financial management (S)
- Participatory program added (S)                                                        (US$5.87 million)




                                                                          - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:


4.2.1    Dam Safety Institutions. The outcome of this component is rated as 'satisfactory'. From an
institution-building point of view, and taking into account both the indicators set by the project and the
level of national capacity when the project was initiated, much progress has been achieved towards
main-streaming dam safety institutions and safety assurance programs in line with the governance
improvement process currently under way in Indonesia. Following effectiveness of the Loan, the DSO
(DSC and DSU) received support from the project; however, only after mobilization of the TA consultant
in 1995 could support be fully provided.          The DMUs were established after related training and
dissemination to all provinces had been done for almost two years. Stronger legislation for the DSC (a
multi-government agency) was issued as a Ministerial Regulation (Permen No. 72/PRT/1997). This
Permen is more comprehensive and binding, and is applicable to all dam owners (public and private) on a
national basis. The DSU has been constituted as a "Balai" or "Special Body" through a Ministerial Decree
(Kepmen No. 318/KPTS/1998). Both the DSC and the DSU finally received the status of independent
units under the MPW and not within the DGWRD (now DGWR): as a result, some distance between
`regulator' and `operator' was achieved.. The CDMU, albeit needing more professional capacity, was
established along with ten DMUs in the provinces and in three MPW river basin corporations.
Establishment of the ten DMUs was based on the decree issued by the Head of the PWRS, while the
CDMU was established by the DGWR.

4.2.2    By the end of the project, the DSO had issued eighteen certifications for new dam designs (public
and private), ten certifications for dam impounding, and four certificates for dam operation (including the
Jatiluhur Dam). Currently, certificates for three new dam designs are being processed. Because of lack of
staff with adequate expertise, the DSU never reached its permanent design size of about twenty full-time
staff; as a result, the certification of remedial works of smaller dams under the project was not completed
because of the over-loading of the DSU staff complement for the tasks at hand. To support dam safety
assurance management, the active efforts of the project have resulted in good progress on information
management with the development of a 'dams data-base module' which includes: (a) a national inventory of
180 large dams out of the total of 283 dams operated; (b) a data-base for compiling technical drawing,
documents and image files (with the data for 26 dams loaded); and (c) provisions for posting/sharing via
the DSU web-page on the PUnet SDA (the Ministry web-site). Most importantly, a regulatory framework
consisting of 26 guidelines and procedures has been successfully prepared. The documents consist of six
general and twenty technical guidelines. Half of these documents have been formally issued and used by
different levels of authority, from Ministry to Directorate General level. Although the remaining half of the
documents is in the process of review and approval, most have been used as technical references. Aside
from the above achievement, some constraints and recommendations are summarized below.

4.2.3    Further capacity building and training, along with management control improvement, are needed to
improve CDMU and DMU operations. In most cases, DMUs did not plot their monitoring data, and the
use of the dam monitoring software DAMOSY was patchy. Although BDSF training has been stepped up,
data was not being analyzed in many cases and, therefore, it did not achieve its purpose of providing
diagnostic information effectively.     The current effectiveness of the DSC could be enhanced, to strengthen
its national role and responsibility as the envisaged governing body, and as a public champion to undertake
national awareness for dam safety assurance, leaving the technical issues to the DSU. As noted earlier, the
DSU is not fully staffed. An option to deal with this issue would be to make available to the DSU
sufficient financial support to hire experts on a temporary basis during the peak load. It is important to
note that towards addressing the above issues the DGWR has expressed an interest in continuing the dam



                                                      - 7 -

safety program with the continued involvement of the Bank; and the recently approved WISMP Project
includes resources to support the program.

4.2.4    Basic Dam Safety Facilities. The overall outcome of this component is rated as 'unsatisfactory',
particularly in terms of the cost-effectiveness of its achievements. Basic dam safety facilities were designed
for 88 dams. Following initial inspection and instrumentation, it has been installed in 74 dams. The
program suffered a number of significant problems, starting with the contracting of domestic companies for
survey and design work, whose staff were not adequately experienced, who did not seek expert advice, and
who produced work of a generally low standard. This resulted in inappropriate assessments and equipment
specifications.   In several cases, existing and new instruments were destroyed by contractors during
embankment rehabilitation as a result of poor coordination during site supervision.              Although the
deficiencies of this component's implementation were pointed out by the Bank in the early years of the
project, expert BDSF reviews carried out in late CY2000 did not present an encouraging picture. Whilst
considerable investments was made in instrumentation, functionality and sustainability of the instruments in
about 20 percent of project dams needs further attention. A second review in April 2002 indicated that
there was a lack of management support and control, inadequate staffing and budgeting, ineffective
training, a lack of maintenance (for example, a lack of equipment servicing and failure to replace batteries,
etc.), poor site security resulting in vandalized instruments, and a generally poor understanding of the
purpose of the BDSF.

4.2.5    Remedial Works of Smaller Dams. The outcome of this component is rated as 'satisfactory'
based on the volume of work accomplished, and because variable performance was anticipated given the
levels of existing capacity and expertise in this technical area. As noted earlier, the successes in the
Brantas River basin works and the Jatiluhur Dam represent about 50 percent of the total investment; the
outcome was exemplary and highly valued (including the TA). Other than Jatiluhur Dam, all 92 dams
listed in the SAR for possible remedial works were inspected under the project. Of these, designs were
completed for 80 dams by national consultants and, after further screening, works for 67 dams were
completed by December 2000. A further five dams were completed during 2001. The quality of remedial
is mostly 'satisfactory'; though these are a few dams (less than 10 percent) where the quality of works was
less than satisfactory. This situation is indicative of the existence of inexperienced project management as
well as difficulties in the selection of contractors and site supervision. The DGWRD provided technical
audits through the MPW's Inspectorate General which has little experience in field operations and
independent audits. This limited the scope for useful feedback to management and implementation staff for
use in determining corrective actions and improving quality assurance. However, there were noticeable
improvements in the management of remedial works undertaken in Java during the latter stages of the
project as a result of better quality assurance procedures instituted in the Java provinces during the past
three years. The lack of remedial works certification of smaller dams is not a deficiency of works quality
but rather an institutional constraint arising out of the overload of a smaller-than-required DSU.

4.2.6    Jatiluhur Dam Remedial Works.             The outcome of this sub-component is rated as 'highly
satisfactory'. The remedial works were carried out in a professional manner and in accordance with OP
4.37, including the use of an International Panel of Experts. This is particularly relevant as the dam is 96
meters high, its reservoir contains over 3 billion m , and it has a very high hazard classification being
                                                         3


located upstream of densely-populated urban areas and rural irrigated areas. The physical risk of failure of
this dam in CY 2002 was significantly reduced compared to its condition and safety concerns in CY 1993.
Based on detailed prior studies and inspections, the works included remedial works to the main dam
structure, protective works to the Pasir Gombong West and Ubrug dikes, and a study of the movement
behavior and stability of its "Morning Glory" intake tower cum spillway. The problems identified led to



                                                       - 8 -

the consideration of several technical factors related to the safety of large dams in Indonesia. The civil
works and construction supervision consultants were procured separately from all other dams and
consultants by international competitive bidding (ICB). Successive studies and works were undertaken in
response to field findings and Panel of Experts recommendations.             The process culminated in the
finalization of the OMS Manual and an overall professional dam safety report presented to a final Panel of
Experts for review in support of an application for dam safety certification to the DSU/DSC. The
certification for full operation of the dam was issued on February 2003 with some recommendations on
diligent monitoring and inspections. The Jatiluhur Dam has been a good, practical training ground for
DSU members in dam safety engineering.            This sub-component demonstrates that, with appropriate
organizational and specialist TA arrangements, a high standard of dam safety engineering can be attained
by MPW and its successor, KimPrasWil. The performance on the implementation of this sub component is
an important contributing factor to the overall satisfactory project rating, even though a small number of
rehabilitation works in smaller dams showed lower quality.

4.2.7    Project Management.         This outcome of the component is rated as 'satisfactory'.               The
administration activities such as status reporting and expenditure accounting have been satisfactory and TA
assistance was well utilized. Some improvements should have been made in the proactiveness in providing
feedback from the field to improve project performance, such as the problems of BDSF and construction
quality. In response to consistent Bank mission requests, the GOI management in CY 2000/2001 embarked
on efforts to achieve a more efficient coordination of project implementation between management and all
agencies at the center and provinces. However, the DSU, CDMU and DMUs stretching the capacity of
Indonesian professionals with large dam experience, it was unavoidable that project management did not
always have adequate requisite technical experience.

4.2.8    Consultant Services and Technical Assistance. The overall outcome of this sub-component is
rated as 'satisfactory'.   The performance of two internationally-recruited consultants for institutional
capacity building, assistance in establishing dam safety institutions and training, and for remedial works
construction supervision at Jatiluhur Dam are rated as 'highly satisfactory'. The development of the DSU
and its output was facilitated by the foreign consultant. Had the arrangements been made at an early stage
for this consultant to actively deliver the quality assurance of the Remedial Works and BDSF components
under a "task concept", instead of the hands-off "advise and assist" role defined by the Terms of Reference,
the physical and training outcome would probably have been more satisfactory. The performance of local
consultants in carrying out the Survey, Investigation and Design (SID) and Supervision of BDSF
installation and the supervision of construction of remedial works is rated as 'unsatisfactory'.

4.2.9    Training.     The outcome of this component in support of institution building is rated as
'unsatisfactory'. Training was partially effective with respect to project implementation needs. Most of the
focused training was only conducted after the majority of activities under the BDSF and Remedial Works
components were almost complete. A total of some 41 courses (including workshops and seminars) were
held in-country and attended by 1,535         people.    In addition, some 25 people participated in five
motivational, hands-on courses and technical tours abroad.          However, these numbers are somewhat
misleading in terms of the actual creation of competence. The project's training design was aimed at
overcoming the skill and experience deficiencies of staff undertaking and involved in the project by
focusing on institutional strengthening and training in the first few years of the project. In reality, the focus
of the project was shifted quickly to remedial works and BDSF installation, without the skills, technical
guidance and capacity being built up by intensive formal arrangements for competency enhancing
on-the-job training. Although training services were included in the outline of consultant services in project
design (SAR, Annex 6), these obligations were initially removed from the TA with the intention to deliver
the services locally. Outputs were further deferred by a one-year delay in consultant recruitment and,


                                                      - 9 -

thereafter, by extensive delay in the amendment of the TA contract to re-establish formal training services.
Only with the preparation of a Training Needs Assessment in 1999 did training begin in earnest in 2000.
However, only in 2001-2002 did focused training take place on a large scale including formal training
(professional skills, dam engineering, management and communications skills) and field-type training
(DAMOSY dam monitoring software use and instrumentation monitoring).               This training, although
important, was rather late to overcome earlier deficiencies, and was carried out without the much broader
capacity-building framework of the TA planned under the project.

4.2.10  Participatory Dam Safety Program. This was a relatively new initiative formulated during the
extension period of the Loan in 2001/2002; based on admittedly limited performance to date, this new
sub-component is rated as 'satisfactory'. During the crisis, starting from 1998/1999, there occurred a lot of
looting and vandalism of the dam safety instruments by the community. In response, the initiative was
taken to bring about a greater partnership between the communities and the dam safety program. The
outcomes cannot be fully evaluated as the activities were only initiated recently. However, a preliminary
assessment indicates that this activity has achieved positive outcomes. Overall, after only six months of
implementation, the Model Dams program is already partially effective. The program used a community
participatory approach (i.e., provision of inputs in response to specific local demand) in cooperation with
NGO or university to achieve objectives. This approach proved to be an effective mechanism for engaging
the community in the process towards community-supported dam safety. Although continued support is
needed to achieve full maturity of the program and to achieve the goals and objectives set under the Model
Dams program, there is evidence in three of the four locations (with varying degrees of achievement) that
the response and participation from the community are very positive. The model is being duplicated in
other dams by local government (in Central Java).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1   No economic analysis of the project was carried out during appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1   No financial analysis of the project or any of its components was carried out during appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1   While the project has contributed towards a significant and major institutional development -
bringing dam safety firmly within the Kimpaswil program - the team presently rates the institutional
development impact as 'modest'. While Kimpraswil has confirmed its strong commitment to the program,
there remain a few issues as discussed earlier which need to be addressed. Importantly though, the overall
impact is positive based on the following: (a) there is now a much broader and deeper understanding among
the major government and private dam owners about the potential risks posed by dams (e.g., implications
of hazard classification, Dam Break Analysis - DBA, and the results of EPPs) and the need for inspection,
monitoring and surveillance of large dams; (b) there is already a DSO, and a basic database and
operational framework of procedural and technical guidelines available, although the institution still needs
stronger legislation and staff capacity building; (c) there is a much greater appreciation of the role and
importance of skills, competences and experience at all levels associated with the implementation of dam
safety assurance; (d) the basic organizations of DSC, DSU, CDMU and DMUs are in place and
functioning, although they need support to consolidate the institutional development which has taken place;
(e) sector management appreciates the need for a stronger and independent dam safety assurance institution
within the context of overall water sector reform; (f) the need for professional development of dam
engineers is recognized and the Indonesian Affiliation of the International Commission on Large Dams
(INACOLD) is seeking to register and to certify competent dam engineers who can function according to



                                                    - 10 -

the provisions of the dam safety regulatory framework; and (g) the surrounding community is willing to
participate in the safety program or even in the routine maintenance works, provided that they are properly
prepared and guided.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    The political and economic crisis during 1997-1999 and the unsettling effects of the government
transition that ensued were major events that affected project outcomes in a variety of ways. First, the
sharp depreciation of the Indonesia Rupiah meant increased local currency resources which allowed some
portions of the Loan to be cancelled (as well as the Loan period to be extended by two and half years).
Second, the fiscal crisis led to difficulties for the implementing agency to realize adequate counterpart
funding for the project and to delays in the release of annual budgets, all of which affected and delayed
implementation. This was resolved to some extent by the Bank's agreement in 1998 to increase the
disbursement percentage for civil works from 55 to 80 percent from 1999 onwards. Third, the ensuing
political changes led to a basic change in public administration based on a decentralization framework with
increased regional autonomy and fiscal decentralization. This sea of changes gave prime responsibility for
management of natural resources - hence water and irrigation - to the district governments while leaving
some uncertainty as to the responsibility of provinces with respect to the trans-district boundary aspects of
river and basin management. A consequence of this change was a debate about control and responsibility
for dams and their operation. Currently, provinces have assumed operational responsibility for large dams
through DMUs and Balai PSDA (Basin Management Unit), while the role of the national government
Special Projects has been curtailed (except for the two basin corporations). However, coming to closure on
future sustainable operation and maintenance (O&M) and dam safety assurance programming and
financing is difficult because of the uncertainties remaining about formal transfer of dam assets to
provinces and about whether the assets will continue to be owned by the national government with
provinces (and/or districts) being responsible for O&M only.         This has important implications for
application of the DSC's and DSU's regulatory responsibilities under Permen No. 72/PRT/1997. A higher
level regulation than the existing Permen, such as a government regulation is needed, to ensure a clear task
and responsibility amongst central, provincial and district government, especially on the budget allocation
for dam management.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    Following the national elections in September 1999, the incoming government decided to abolish
the MPW and, through Presidential Decree No. 136 of 1999, split it into a Ministry of Settlements and
Regional Development (KimBangWil) and a State Ministry for Public Works (MeNegPU). KimBangWil
was to be responsible for all implementation in the water sector while MeNegPU was to concentrate on
policy matters, construction industry regulation, etc. As a result, the DSU was placed in the MeNegPU
under a special body for Control of Procurement for the Provision of Public Works Infrastructure but
reporting to the Deputy State Minister for Water Resources.          The DSC, however,       remained under
KiMBangWil with the Director General of Rural Development as its continuing chairman. The split of
MPW caused major disarray in redeployment of staff, with about a hundred of the prime ex-DGWRD staff
being sent to MeNegPU. Although remaining independent, the DSU had some difficulty in working closely
with its TA consultant whose contract was managed by the PMU located in KimBangWil.                     This
reorganization adversely affected the performance of the DSC and the DSU particularly with respect to
leadership, organization, and replacement of members and budgets. The situation was improved when the



                                                     - 11 -

Reform Cabinet abolished MeNegPU in August 2000 and recombined KimBangWil and MeNegPU into the
Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure (KimPrasWil) within which the Directorate General of
Water Resources (DGWR) was established. This change moved the DSU into KimPrasWil. Following the
recommendations of Bank missions, the DSU was again placed under the Secretary General of MPW,
while the CPMU was located within a new Directorate for Technical Guidance (Bintek) in 2001. Overall,
despite the various difficulties, the dam safety activities called for were done, and largely done well; these
provide evidence that the institutional development has taken place and sustainability is likely.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1   Many key factors resulting in the variable performance of the project components were under the
direct control of the original implementing agency DGWRD prior to December 2000. However, the
tendency to focus on administrative processes and not to include higher management in key strategic
decisions affecting the achievement of the development objective (e.g., adequate staffing for the DSU,
timely procurement of TA consultants, and contract amendment to suit project implementation needs) was
a particular DGWRD deficiency that affected this project. The Bank drew the attention of the project
management to strengthen the capacity of the DSU, for example proposing the secondment of several
experienced engineers from PLN. It is not clear why MPW could not raise this issue with PLN at the DSC
level and find a solution. Most of all, DGWRD and its successors did not insist that its own ministerial
regulations should be followed more rigorously for inspection and certification for design, construction and
re-commissioning of rehabilitated dams, or recognize their longer-term advantages.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1   The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$97.4 million (including price and physical
contingencies), of which US$55.0 million was to be financed by the Bank's Loan and US$42.4 by the
Government. Parts of the Loan were cancelled: US$8.0 million in August 1998, and US$11.8 million in
December 1999, because of the economic crisis between 1998-2000. During this period, the value of the
US dollar relative to the Indonesian Rupiah increased steeply (more than four-fold), thus enabling the
cancellation of parts of the Loan.      The second reason was that because of the limited capacity of
government to make available counterpart funding during that crisis and the slowed-down performance of
the project, the physical target of rehabilitation works was reduced from 93 dams to 73 dams. By the end
of the project, US$35.2 million had been disbursed. However, project records indicate that about US$5
million of project expenditures that were financed by the GOI were not claimed as reimbursable amounts
from the Bank's Loan by the Closing Date.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1   Overall, the sustainability of project achievements is considered to be 'likely'. This is most clearly
demonstrated by the: (a) commitment demonstrated by Kimpraswil towards the dam safety program, and to
support institutional achievements in the DSO (including Model Dams for promoting participatory O&M
and the Prototype Basins program for mainstreaming river basin-oriented OMS for dam safety assurance);
and (b) recognition that the DSO has been operating effectively over the past two years with a declining
level of Bank engagement.         As a regulatory body the DSU has been established as a structural
organization, provided with routine annual operational budget, although strengthening activities are still


                                                     - 12 -

needed. The DMU, even though it is not a structural organization, is a functional unit which is established
under Provincial Water Resource Services Office or under Basin Corporation.              The Guidelines and
Manuals exist and are used, although still awaiting formal clearance from the management. There is also a
better understanding and greater appreciation of the importance of securing dam safety and of the means to
do so, resulting in DSU interest in seeking a Government Regulation on Dam Safety Assurance.
Importantly also, while the training component could have been implemented better, it has nevertheless
enhanced important skills within Kimpraswil on dam safety. The DGWR/KimPrasWil is actively seeking a
follow-on project while some provinces have recognized the importance of dam safety program and started
providing a modest funding for dam O&M . However, continued donor support will be important; and the
Bank will remain engaged through WISMP. Much will also depend on keeping a minimum cadre of
experienced staff in place.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    The government is fully committed to continuing the dam safety assurance program, and has
proposed a post-project operational plan as follows:
         (a) Regulatory Activities: The DSU will continue with the process of formal issuance of remaining
guidelines, certification of new dams, safety inspections which has been scheduled for 12 dams in FY2003
and 12-15 dams in 2004, and maintaining the newly established MIS. The DSU has also proposed a
supplementary clause on dam safety for inclusion in the draft new water law which is being deliberated at
present in parliament.
         (b) Operations: The ministry is planning to strengthen the CDMU/DMU organization by issuing a
special decree formalizing the current functional monitoring units in the center, province, districts and
under the state corporations. The government will continue with the innovative program of model dams
involving community participation and prototype basin where a full OMS of a dam under the basin is
practiced. In addition, the GOI will continue dissemination of more basic information on dams and dam
safety to the community at large and to the legislative (for budget allocation commitment), and to other
concerned government agencies. A dialogue has been initiated with the Bank, and as noted below, an
allocation of budget is agreed under the WISMP.

6.2.2    The recently-approved WISMP includes provisions for continuing support for dam safety
assurance institutional development.       The WISMP's dam safety agenda would include support for
strengthening of the national dam safety program through provision of a separate O&M and safety
surveillance funding for dams, staff capacity-building, focused management control and monitoring, and
adoption of a management policy that dams owned by KimPrasWil will be properly maintained to lower
risks to acceptable levels.    The Ministry of Settlements and Regional Infrastructure has repeatedly
confirmed its desire to focus more attention and sustained funding to this strategic effort. Part of this
safety effort will need to be carried out by local governments, and part of it will have to be assumed by the
national agencies, possibly with mixed support from external funds.                    A follow on Dam
Safety/Sustainability Project which is provided for in the new CAS, may integrate safety and economic
development.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    Overall, the Bank's performance on project preparation is rated as 'satisfactory'. The project was
identified and prepared by the Bank's dam safety expert on the basis of the India Dam Safety Project
model. It was technically sound with regard to the organizational components and procedural framework


                                                     - 13 -

of a dam safety organization and program. The project identification was consistent with the implementing
agency's priorities and the Bank's prevailing CAS. The project design is consistent with OP 4.37 that was
issued later in 1996. The need for gradual build-up of such an institution was recognized, and the project
design adopted: (a) a `process' approach, with basic legislation for the program in place prior to Board
approval; and (b) benchmark conditionality, including its legal basis and financial sustainability aspects.
The process approach included the preparation of a register of dams, hazard classification and hydrological
criteria for design floods, as well as the development of procedures for the preparation of EPPs for high
hazard dams. The preparation of Annual Work Plans approved by the Bank was a conditionality that
facilitated programming and supervision flexibility as well as annual correction based on actual progress.
Extensive preparation to screen a portfolio of project dams was undertaken for the Remedial Works
component with the completion of designs for remedial works for eleven dams (Category A) so that
tendering would be possible within six months of Loan effectiveness (SAR Annex 5, paragraph 4).
Detailed safety inspections for a second group of ten dams (Category B) was completed. At appraisal, it
was decided to include a further 70 dams for inspection and investigation to be selected for implementation
during the project (Category C). A requirement for technical audit for these works was included to monitor
construction quality assurance. By the Board approval date, draft tender documents for the Jatiluhur Dam
remedial works were ready and pre-qualification of contractors had been completed.

7.1.2    Although provision for an international Dam Safety Review Panel for Jatiluhur Dam was not
specifically mentioned in the SAR, it was anticipated and one was appointed during the project. Short lists
for the two main consultancies were approved by the Bank by the time of Board presentation. While
national consultants were to be used for remedial works, provision for foreign TA was mentioned in
complex cases (SAR, Annex 5, paragraph 3). Appraisal also identified a need for increased TA because of
limitations in national dam expertise. A training program outline for each project organization was
identified, with emphasis being placed on almost continuous on-the-job training.                The project
implementation schedule indicates the appointment of TA consultants more or less at the time of Loan
effectiveness. Appropriate criteria, consistent with OP 4.30 and loan conditionality, were agreed should
any involuntary land acquisition be required. The Bank's 1993/1994 operational guidelines at the time of
preparation did not require a project design log-frame which concisely identified objectives and outputs
along with relevant monitoring indicators for supervision. Thus, supervision of the project suffered from
the lack of suitable performance indicators for the objectives and component outputs. The SAR did not
adequately evaluate `Project Risks', i.e. taking into account the Bank's sector and implementing agency
knowledge, and the resultant implementation outcome.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    The Bank's performance on supervision is rated as 'marginally satisfactory'. The Bank supervision
missions paid rigorous attention in guiding the project on quality and management issues, as well as on
follow-up action plans during the difficult period of 1998-2000. When the crisis escalated in the country
and project progress was not encouraging, the Bank recommended to cancel about 25 dams so that the
project could sharpen its focus in order to achieve a realistic outcome. The missions' skills-mix and
continuity were generally satisfactory for technical topics and institutional development; the absence of the
dam safety institution specialist in the team, which had been a weakness earlier, was remedied from 1999
onwards. Although the project focused increasingly on dam safety institutions after FY2000, an
experienced specialist in dam safety assurance was included in supervision missions from late 2001.

7.2.2    There are areas where the Bank's supervision effort could have been better. For example, while
undertaking implementation quality assessment during the MTR, there was a limited dialogue with the
DGWR to restructure the project as part of the midterm review (MTR) in 1997. An effective engagement



                                                    - 14 -

at MTR would have ensured that satisfactory training and quality assurance arrangements were in place
before remedial works of Category C dams and installation of BDSF were continued. At the same time,
with the exception of counterpart funding problems in 1998/1999, it would seem that Form 590/PSR
performance and risk ratings may have been over-optimistic in relation to training and quality assurance
problems, and especially with respect to risk identification and assessment. The supervision team might
also have chosen to engage the borrower during the loan extension period to consider preparing regulations
for the various O&M funding formulae identified by the TA consultants in the December 2000 Project
Completion Report.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1    Overall, the Bank's performance is rated as 'satisfactory' for this unique project (only the second of
its kind in Bank history), breaking new organizational management ground in DGWRD and introducing
institutional development with a regulatory focus.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated as 'satisfactory'. The issue of
nationwide dam safety was properly followed by its commitment to institutional development needs and the
thorough review of the Jatiluhur Dam and 95 smaller dams. The results of the review were acceptably
good and contributed to project design.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1    The implementation performance of the Government is considered to have been 'satisfactory'.
During the fiscal crisis, the government had tried its best to fulfill its commitments to make available
counterpart funds which enabled the project to complete rehabilitation works in all dams under the revised
target. The Government positively responded to the needs for cancellation of those parts of the Loan that
were unlikely to be used and for financing new initiatives proposed by the project during implementation
period that needed amendment of the LA.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1    Overall performance of the implementing agency is rated as 'marginally satisfactory'. There was
satisfactory performance in institution building and in the Jatiluhur rehabilitation and management, but
some of the other implementation performance was variable.            The performance indicates inadequate
attention to the quality management. The management focused strongly on financial progress with more
limited attention to the implementation of works.         The result was less than adequate feedback to
management, notably with the performance of the BDSF component and a number of remedial works on
smaller dams. Other examples were that little attention was given to technical audit results, and limited
action was taken on poor performance of installed BDSF in the field. However, application of quality
assurance procedure in the organization during the later stages of the project has improved the quality
performance.




                                                    - 15 -

7.6.2    Successful dam safety programs require very effective management. In this case, management was
found to be less than fully satisfactory during project implementation. Personnel management was not well
taken care of, and management could have made greater efforts to ensure the adequacy of DSU staff
numbers to enable it to complete all its tasks. Financial management, progress reporting, accounts, audits
and procurement were adequate, but strategic programming and budgeting with respect to project
management problems were insufficient.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1    Considering the above description and the fact that the project achievement on the institutional
development and rehabilitation of the Jatiluhur Dam were highly successful, the overall Borrower's
performance is rated as 'satisfactory'.


8. Lessons Learned

8.1      Effective dam safety programs require a long time to develop. The institutional aspects and the
development of a dam safety attitude, especially in the decision makers, is a very difficult task. Progress
and retreat are normal, especially in developing countries with very limited financial resources. This
project was the second stand-alone dam safety project financed by the Bank, and given that an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the India Dam Safety Project is complete its lessons are of
particular interest. As in the case of India, the introduction of dam safety institutions creates requirements
for unfamiliar technical specialist skills, a need for both a technical and regulatory management focus and
coordination between the national level and the now functionally-independent provinces. Although many
institutional teething problems were encountered and substantial legal and performance upgrading is still
required, a strong start has been made in the institutional area.

8.2      The lessons of general and technical significance of this project are:

8.2.1    There is a need for realistic project preparation and design. It is important to define: (a) the
time-frame and scope of remedial works in relation to the implementing agency's capacity for quality
assurance of the standard needed for dams, a preparation of hazard level and other design criteria, and the
capacity of the dam safety institution to undertake detailed inspection prior to remedial works; (b) a more
gradual build-up in executing remedial works, to ensure that consultants and supervisory staff are trained
and that site investigations, plans and designs are prepared by the consultants according to project model
standards and after appropriate safety inspections (except for well-defined works such as the Jatiluhur
Dam).

8.2.2    The project design should have given more emphasis to initial effective capacity-building
before commencing the BDSF and Remedial Works components. The focus on initial DSU and DMU
capacity-building, as well as design and construction quality assurance, should have been a greater concern
for a sustainable outcome than the typical early momentum to complete as much of the civil works as
possible. This would include: (a) requiring competency-based training for staff and consultants; (b) model
planning and design reports - based on actual case studies prepared by the TA consultants - along with
check-lists for the guidance of national consultants; (c) model BDSF specifications prepared by the TA
consultants; and (d) model construction quality assurance procedures and site organization, and overall
agency orientation.




                                                     - 16 -

8.2.3    The determination of hydrological criteria for Probably Maximum Precipitation (PMPs) in
different climates takes time and requires special study. Different climates have different meteorology,
and a special study by qualified experts is needed to determine a PMP methodology: this is preferably done
within the first phase of a dam safety Adjustable Program Loan. The project should also develop criteria
for use of a PMP (Probably Maximum Precipitation) or PMF (Probably Maximum Flood) in calculating
the dimensions of spillways, with adequate attention being paid to cost and feasibility of spillway
modification. Adequate collection and analysis of historical data is required, and in the absence of a final
PMP methodology, remedial works for spillways should also be based on analysis of the "best available"
PMP/PMF estimates in relation to historical records.

8.2.4    Engineering of dams is a specialized subject. Appropriate quality assurance arrangements need
to be in place through an improvement of implementing agency management or the use of proper TA with
adequate powers and authority (task concept) to manage the design and construction phase. Frequent
rotation of engineers and technicians involved in dams should be avoided. Those staff must have adequate
training and experience. Training in dam safety should be institutionalized so that all engineers working
with dams undergo specific personnel capacity-building training.

8.2.5    It is important to establish priorities for remedial works investments, and appropriate risk
analysis needs to be used, based on public hazard and dam safety condition criteria. The use of dam
height and reservoir volume and the consideration of general deferred maintenance problems are inadequate
for the detailed establishment of priorities of works. In the interests of economy and efficiency related to
the purpose of the project, a requirement for design consultants to undertake a comparison of works
alternatives should have been stipulated, especially where there were clear trade-offs between expensive
safety-related and deferred maintenance works.        The priority criteria need to be institutionalized as
technical guidelines.

8.2.6    The preparation team should have been instructed not to accept the MPW Inspectorate
General as the source for technical audit, as this unit is a financial auditor and incapable of
undertaking technical audits, even with technical assistance. Instead, a permanent panel should have
been appointed to review key designs and adherence to preparation quality, consisting of a representative
from DSU, the head of Bintek and two eminent engineers from outside the MPW (for example, PLN and
PJT Brantas).

 8.2.7   A model O&M Manual incorporating dam safety considerations needs to be prepared early
in the project for guidance. Such a manual needs to be regularly updated in the light of project
implementation experience.     O&M Manuals should take into account dam safety plans,             including
instrumentation and surveillance. Project criteria and problems identified during remedial works should be
reflected in the revision of existing O&M manuals. The results of periodic readings of dam monitoring
instruments should be analyzed and incorporated in annual O&M plans where necessary.               Routine
surveillance and analysis procedures, together with capacity building for operating staff, are as important
as periodic safety inspection.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The following were taken from the Borrower's ICR which is the GOI's own evaluation of the Dam Safety
Project (Loan No. 3742-IND).




                                                    - 17 -

9.1 GENERAL

The Dam Safety Project in Indonesia (Loan Number 3742-IND) was based on Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) No. 12815-IND dated May 6, 1994 and was approved on June 22, 1994 for the amount of US$55
million. The period of the Loan was a little over six years. The Loan was reduced on August 26, 1998 to
US$47 million and to US$35.2 million on December 13, 1999. The Loan was substantially closed on
March 31, 2003.

9.2 ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND INITIAL PROJECT DESIGN

9.2.1    Project Purpose

The failure of dams endangers public safety and property, reduces the benefits of water supply and results
in costly asset replacement. The Dam Safety Project was therefore designed to increase efficiency in the
safe operation and maintenance of Indonesia's large dams which would lead to a reduction in the risks of
dam failure.

9.2.2    Project Objective

There are four main project objectives to reduce the risk of dam failure in Indonesia: (a) establishment of
dam safety institutions; (b) periodic inspections and safety evaluations of all large dams; (c) provision of
basic dam safety facilities at existing dams where such provisions were lacking; and (d) implementation of
remedial works at dams with safety deficiencies. The dam safety program was to start with inspection,
evaluation and remedial work on dams belonging to the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) (N.B., this is
now named the Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructures, KIMPRASWIL) and later to be
expanded into a national program covering all dams in Indonesia. The objectives were not revised during
project implementation. The objectives were clear and realistic regarding that at the beginning of the
project dam safety institutions have not been established. However, during the implementation there are a
lot of changes in the government policy which influences in the implementation process. The establishment
of DSU was based on the Kepmen PU No. 98/KPTS/92 regarding the Organization of Dam Safety Unit,
and in line with Indonesian National Standard (SNI No. 1731/1989-F).

9.2.3 Original Components

It was envisaged that over a six year period the project would finance 100 percent of institutional
strengthening and training and the rehabilitation of 92 large dams listed in SAR. The principal components
/activities were:

    (a) Institutional strengthening through regulatory reform and capacity building of the Dam Safety
    Commission (DSC), Dam Safety Unit (DSU) and Dam Monitoring Units (DMUs) including the
    preparation of a dam database/MIS, guidelines and procedures, safety inspections, remedial
    works review and inspections and final certification.

    (b) Improvement of Basic Dam Safety Facilities (BDSF) including survey, investigation, design
    implementation, monitoring and surveillance.

    (c) Remedial Works to 92 large dams including the rehabilitation of Jatiluhur Dam and other priority
    dams. Technical assistance was provided to support the above components.

    (d) Project Management




                                                    - 18 -

9.2.4 The Original Project Preparation


The basis for the project is to find the World Bank assistance for remedial works on dams in Central and
West Java. In the early 1990s, project preparation of a dam safety project was included in the Java
Irrigation Management Project which inspected 36 MPW dams and formed the basis for the current
project. INACOLD then became an active partner with the MPW in the initial development of the
program.     Following pre-appraisal, the Dam Safety Organization was institutionalized through legal
process and preparations were completed for the survey, investigation and design of 92 dams. The Dam
Safety Project finally became effective in September 1994.

9.2.5    Revised Components:

Until 2000 there was, in general, a greater focus on the implementation of the BDSF and the Remedial
Works components.       As part of the Loan Extension from September 2000 onwards, emphasis was
re-directed to the improvement of institutional capacity building and training within the DSC, DSU and
DMUs (CDMU and PDMUs). An effort to improve the sustainability of the dam safety assurance
program by including a new component, "Model Dams for Public Participation and Empowerment" related
to the participation of communities surrounding the reservoir, was introduced in 2001. Even though the
concept of the Model Dams had a good response from the communities surrounding the reservoir by taking
them aid to increase their income and giving their participation to the safety of the dam, the implementation
of the Model Dams had results in more budget allocation for these activities rather than to strengthen the
DSO (i.e., DSC, DSU or DMUs).



9.3   ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND PLANNED OUTPUTS

9.3.1    Outcome / Achievement of Objective Activities

Whilst the main objective, to reduce in the risk of dam failures, has been achieved, some of the project
objectives could not be fully attained. The Project Outcome is in general satisfactory, in terms that the
project lays a strong foundation for development of a sustainable dam safety assurance system in
Indonesia.    The DSO has become the recognized body to implement the safety assurance program.
Certification of 18 new dams has been completed (covering 32 certificates). Over 26 draft guidelines have
been produced and six of them have been approved by Minister/Director General. A data-base MIS for all
of Indonesia's dams is being developed and the data is still very limited, so that it needs improvement for
data management. Rehabilitation works have been completed on 73 dams including Jatiluhur. However,
there are still some issues to be improved.

Some of the Basic Dam Safety Facilities installed suffer from poor survey, design, lack of O&M budget
and trained staff to undertake monitoring and reporting, and also poor management. There are also
problems resulting from vandalism.        Remedial works to dams have sometimes been designed and
completed without an effective quality assurance plan, resulting in the need for work to be redone in the
future.

9.3.2 Outputs by Components:

Project components and their activities will be discussed and separate evaluations will be made of the
physical and institutional outputs based on the original and revised targets.




                                                    - 19 -

9.3.2.1 Dam Safety Institutions

(a)      Institutional Strengthening of the DSC, DSU and DMU was envisaged through restructuring and
enhancement of the regulatory framework coupled with training and capacity-building interventions at the
central, provincial and local levels. Regulations regarding the institutional framework for DSC, DSU were
introduced before project commencement in 1993, the composition and duties of the DSC were enabled in
1993, and legislation for the regulation of the Dam Safety Assurance was passed in 1997. The institutions
still require significant support (funding, human resources, legal) to allow them to act as an independent
body as originally planned. There is no reason to worry about the independence of the DSC because the
role of the DSC is clear (since the DSC members consist of varied stakeholders qualified in the respective
fields related to dams). In order to anticipate the new legislation on water resources, in which the DSC will
be implicitly mentioned, a regulation on dam safety is being prepared that will strengthen the DSC. To
make the DSC/DSU more effective, compensation for members, work place and facilities must also be
provided. Whilst the DSU has existed as a Balai for four years, the safety inspections on rehabilitated
dams have not been carried out regularly because of organizational, funding and human resources
constraints. The CDMU and its PDMU operational and organizational arrangements remain unclear.
Because of the decentralization of government, the format of the unit varied among regions. The CDMU
has been proceeded as `Balai Pengelolaan Bendungan' and being proposed to the State Minister of
Apparatus Control (Men-PAN). The existing provincial units require substantial assistance for training in
data recording, monitoring and surveillance, including the interpretation of data, and also require support
on adequate equipment and documents to make them function properly. The PDMUs have been established
in eight provinces (i.e. Lampung; West, Central and East Java; Bali; West and East Nusa Tenggara; and
South Sulawesi Provinces, respectively). Furthermore, PDMUs need to be established in other provinces
such as in Kalimantan, Sumatera, Maluku and Irian Jaya/Papua which have large dams to be monitored.
The institutions in central and provincial levels still require significant support on funding, human
resources, and legal aspect to allow them to act as professionals and as independent bodies. Appropriate
rewards for the DSC members need to be considered.

(b)      Training. The project concept anticipated a greater emphasis on institutional strengthening and
training in the first 2-3 years. In reality, the focus of the project was shifted early on to physical works
such as the BDSF component and dam rehabilitation. More focused training and strengthening was
eventually undertaken after 2001. Training was undertaken in a variety of academic courses (such as
professional skills, dam engineering, management, communications skills) and practical field training (such
as DAMOSY dam monitoring software, instrumentation monitoring, O & M staff training). A total of
about forty one courses including workshops and seminars was held in country attended by 1,535
participants and about five courses were held as overseas training.         Further training is still needed,
especially on the regulatory systems. The career planning of DSU/DMU staff is still unclear, and this
needs to be improved in order to make the training program more effective. The DSU staff needs special
overseas training to improve the certification process as already applied in some developed countries and
should be guided by DSC senior members for each team. The number of workshops should be increased to
improve the quality of guidelines. There is also a need to carry out awareness campaigns covering all
stakeholders.

(c)      Data-Base/MIS.      An inventory of dams and a computerized MIS dam data-base have not been
developed completely and therefore only limited information is available. The system will be accessible
through the DGWR intranet. The system provides a basis for further development. The DSU needs to find
staff and funding to manage and update the data-base on a regular basis.




                                                     - 20 -

(d)      Guidelines and Procedures.      The project intended to deliver 26 general and technical guidelines.
By loan closure, only ten of these documents had been completed for DSC/DSU approval in the form of a
Decree of the Minister of Public Works, Decree of the Director General, Head of DSC, having undergone
workshops/Seminar, or has been published and introduced within the Ministry of KIMPRASWIL. Three
guidelines already approved need minor revisions in line with recent national legislation. The delay of the
preparation of Guidelines and Procedures was due to: (i) the limited capacity of the consultant; (ii) the
limited number of DSU staff to discuss and finalize the documents; (iii) a new program which was not
indicated in the SAR; and (iv) the delay of extension of the TA contract. It is expected that the remaining
16 documents (50 percent) will be approved by the DSC/DGWR after the loan closure.

(e)      Safety Inspections.      The planned ten detailed inspections each year have not been achieved
because of staffing shortages within the DSU (only eight active staff were available) who have also to carry
out certification for new dams which is mandatory in Dam Safety Regulation.

(f)      Certification for the Jatiluhur Dam which has very high hazard classification is being undertaken
due to the rehabilitation that gives significant and fundamental effects for the structure.       For other
rehabilitation dams, the design have been consulted to the concerned unit (especially for dam development
which can be monitored since the beginning of the process). Between 1995 and April 2002, eighteen
certifications for dam design have been completed, ten certifications for impounding have been completed,
four certifications for operation and eleven dam certifications are still in process. EPPs as compliance in
the dam safety regulatory for twenty eight dams have been prepared under DSP.

9.3.2.2 Basic Dam Safety Facilities.

All 92 dams listed in the SAR were inspected by the project. Basic Dam Safety Facilities at 72 dams were
designed, 23 cancelled and 69 implemented. The programs suffered a number of significant problems: local
consultants were employed to perform survey and design work and, because of their own lack of trained
staff, this has generally been of poor standard. This has resulted in sometimes inappropriate assessments
and equipment specifications.       There are inadequate skilled operational staffing, poor organizational
management and funding problems at the CDMU and PDMU that cause the monitoring of the 73
rehabilitated dams that have to be properly monitored to be generally conducted unsatisfactorily. In the
Loan Extension phase, the BDSF focus was placed on dams linked to the selected Prototype Basins and
Model Dams components ,and despite some encouraging results in a few specific cases there remain
significant unsolved issues. Further capacity building and training, and the introduction of up-dated
legislation, will be the prime driving factor to improve BDSF to the required standard in the future. Even
though the training in the use of DAMOSY has been carried out for all PDMUs, the reporting of
surveillance and recorded data of instruments are still not plotted and analyzed yet as recommended in
DAMOSY. The PDMUs' Quarterly Reports to the CDMU are not yet diagnostic information, as only the
raw data are reported.

9.3.2.3 Remedial Works. All 92 dams listed in the SAR for possible remedial works were inspected by
the Project. Remedial works for 19 dams were not required, the designs of remedial works for 80 dams
have been completed and rehabilitation has been completed in 73 dams. Most of the design and supervision
work was assigned to national consultants. Because of an absence of an effective QA policy, the design,
construction and supervision aspects were generally of highly variable quality and there is a number of
dams where the remedial works will have to be made again (for example, at Delingan Dam which still has
potentially dangerous seepage problems, and the Darma Dam where new investigations into seepage are
required). Appropriate quality assurance procedures were followed on 73 rehabilitated dams. Remedial
works to the Jatiluhur Dam was the largest package of work carried out in this project (US$7.14 million for
Loan portion plus IDR17.38 billion including tax for the GOI portion). Here the quality of the design and


                                                    - 21 -

the construction was of an appropriate technical standard. The dam will now undergo an inspection by an
independent panel of experts as part of the certification process and this is likely to be completed before
December 2002.

9.3.2.4 Prototype Basins for Proper Safety Management. A dam management program has been started
and focussed only on three priority basins (Citarum Basin, Bengawan Solo Basin, and Lombok Island
Basin) because of time constraints during the extension of the Loan to March 31, 2003. The selected dams
in each basin for which the objective is to strengthen MSOM (Monitoring, Surveillance, Operation &
Maintenance) are: the Jatiluhur Dam in Citarum Basin, the Delingan Dam in Bengawan Solo Basin in
Central Java, the Gondang Dam in Bengawan Solo Basin in East Java, and the Pengga dan Batujae Dams
in Lombok Island.

9.3.2.5 Model Dams for Public Participation and Empowerment. A pilot participatory dam safety
program was initiated for the loan extension period in four selected Model Dams (i.e., the Darma Dam in
West Java, the Cengklik Dam in Central Java, the Dawuhan Dam in East Java, and the Sermo Dam in the
Special Province of Yogyakarta).       The aim of the Model Dams is to develop the participation and
empowerment of the communities in the surrounding area of the dams or reservoirs to safe-keep the dam
through the activities they wish to carry out to increase their incomes.

9.3.2.6 Consultant Services. An international consultant was employed to assist the implementing agency
with institutional strengthening and training for the Dam Safety Assurance Program and to support through
advice and assistance the BDSF and the remedial works programs. The consultants were mobilized in
mid-1995 some months after project activities had started. Because of financial constraints there were
several delays during a protracted contract extension/addendum process which limited the consultants'
services, particularly in 2000 and 2001. In 2002, TA services were refocused on two streams, firstly to
provide support to the development of the DSU and, secondly, to assist the DSP/CDMU/PDMUs.

9.3.3   Cost and Benefits

9.3.3.1 Costs and benefits attributable to the project are as follows: Costs incurred under the project
relate to: (i) setting up and strengthening the institutions; (ii) providing BDSF and remedial works; (iii)
providing equipments; (iv) project management to facilitate inspections; (v) community participation and
empowerment as a trade-off for participatory O&M; and (vi) funds for consultant services.

9.3.3.2 Benefits accruing due to the project activities are: (i) the reduction of risk to life and property; (ii)
an increase in agricultural and environmental benefits; (iii) the security of water supplies and asset
maintenance; and (iv) income generation from the water resources or amenity value.

9.3.4   Institutional Development Impact

Despite funding and capacity constraints, the project has strengthened the institutional base for a Dam
Safety Organization in Indonesia. The DSU Development Plan for the next five years (2000 ­ 2005) needs
to be reviewed. Starting in 1999, Quality Assurance based on the ISO-9000 has been applied in the
Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructures based on the Decree of the President 18/2000. This
has been followed up by the letter of the Secretary General of the Ministry of KIMPRASWIL/2000 to all
projects for consultant and contractor activities. However, it still needs to be improved although starting in
2001 supervision works became better.




                                                     - 22 -

9.4 MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

9.4.1 Factors Outside Control of Government or Implementing Agency.

The Asian financial and monetary crisis came just three years into the six-year program and had a
significant effect on implementation, not only in a financial sense but also the knock-on effects of many
legislative and governmental changes from the decentralization process. There have been wide swings in
the Rupiah/US Dollar exchange rate since 1997. The Bank reduced the loan amount in 1998 and 1999 by
a total of US$20 million or 36 percent. This action came at a critical time in the implementation process.
Unfortunately, the loan was not re-adjusted to counter-balance the effects of the strengthening Rupiah over
the 2000 to 2002 period. The Dam Safety Project (Loan No. 3742-IND) was approved on June 22, 1994
for the amount of US$55 million. As of August, 1998 SAR estimated disbursement in US dollar were
about US$41.3 million (75 percent) but the actual disbursements were still US$24.0 million (44%) and
then the Bank reduced the loan on 26 August 1998 to US$47.0 million due to the financial and monetary
crisis in the country. Disbursement progress up to December 1999 was about US$26.1 million (60 percent
of the revised loan amount of US$ 47.0 million), while the SAR estimated disbursement was about
US$45.2 million (82 percent of the original loan amount of US$55.0 million) with nine months left to the
formal loan closing date, September 2000. And then the Bank reduced the loan on December 13, 1999 to
US$35.2 million and the loan period was extended to September 2001, the same as estimated in SAR. As
of December 2001, the actual disbursement of about US$32.2 million with nine months left to the Loan
Closing Date of September 2002. Up to August 2002, the disbursement of the Loan is about US$33.7 (96
percent).

9.4.2 Factors Generally Subject to Government Control.

Delays in the preparation of rehabilitation designs for the Category C dams as well as delays in the release
of the approved Projects's DIP each year (including for fiscal year 2002) caused the delay of the
implementation of rehabilitation projects. The weak institutional capacity of the implementing agency was
not properly addressed in the project design and was a great impediment to overall project success. Over
the project period there have been a number of changes in governmental structure resulting in a number of
different project management units. Budgets for remedial works were channeled through different bodies
and were out of the control of the DSP itself. Another important factor was the difficulty in recruitment of
experienced, professionally trained staff for the implementing agency because of the low remuneration,
besides the experienced and trained staffs are easily moved to the other units.

9.4.3 Factors Generally Subject To Implementing Agency Control.

The following factors affected project execution: (i) consultants were started late; (ii) funding and contract
changes also seriously affected the delivery of the consultants' services throughout the project, especially
over the last three years; and (iii) low capability of local consultants.

Project Management in general needed to be assisted because of a lack of staff caused by Government
policy to increase efficiency, including in the Ministry of Settlement and Regional Infrastructures. After
1998, the Ministry had less experienced professional skills to handle the big projects and most of the young
engineers with limited experience were promoted to project manager, so that most of the project
implementing units lacked experienced engineers for survey, investigation, and design, as well as
construction supervision.




                                                      - 23 -

9.4.4 Costs and Financing

In the SAR, the total loan was US$55.0 million but the current loan amount has been revised to US$35.20
million. The actual total project costs are about IDR 285.88 billion or 166 % of the appraisal estimate.
Dam Safety Institution or Institutional Strengthening exceeded the SAR estimate by 243 percent in IDR
term and 34 percent in US dollar terms, the Remedial Works, Basic Safety Facilities and Project
Management components exceeded the appraisal estimate in IDR by 56 percent and 83 percent,
respectively, but those components are still less than the estimate at appraisal in US dollar terms because of
the substantial change in the exchange rate between the US dollar and the IDR.

9.5 SUSTAINABILITY

9.5.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating

It is likely that the project sustainability will be variable and would be partially attained for the achievement
generated. Factors affecting the sustainability include: (i) available Government budgets for management
and operational costs for the DSU and DMUs; (ii) contribution of the local Government support to the O &
M costs for dams as a result of the Government's policy on decentralization; (iii) lack of experienced staff
of local Government to manage and monitor the dams without support from the Balai PSDA (Basin Water
Resources Management Units) (note: the Balai PSDA has only been established in some provinces); and
(iv) participation and empowerment of the public at the surrounding area of dam/reservoir to safekeeping
the dams.

9.5.2 Transition Arrangement to Regular Operation.

The project is expected to make transition arrangements after the loan is closed on March 31, 2003. The
DSC, DSU and DMUs operations will continue based on planning currently in preparation, particularly in:
(i) the completion of the remaining DSU regulations, guidelines, procedures, manuals, etc., followed by
legalization and dissemination; (ii) the provision of adequate budgets required through APBD (local
Government budgets) or APBN (central Government budgets) to support the operational cost for the DSU
and DMUs; (iii) the review of the DSU Five Year Development Plan; (iv) monitoring and surveillance data
records of each dam, and maintenance of all instruments installed on dams properly; (v) safekeeping the
dams involving public participation and empowerment; and (vi) improving the quality of human resources
involved.

9.6        BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

Bank

9.6.1     Lending

During identification, the Bank took account of the project's consistency with the Government's
development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy of the country. The Bank's performance during
identification and preparation has been rated satisfactory, and also during appraisal.

9.6.2     Supervision

The schedule of the Bank Supervision Missions for this project are too frequent, it is expected that the
Bank Supervision Mission should be set-up without additional mission. The Bank supervision missions
were not always supervised by competent and experienced dam engineer, so that the discussions and



                                                        - 24 -

guidance to DSU were carried out less than comprehensively. The Bank's performance for the supervision
is rated as unsatisfactory.

9.6.3    Overall Bank Performance

In general, overall the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower

9.6.4    Preparation

Borrower performance during preparation was satisfactory, since the objective was clear, realistic, and in
line with the conditions of the country.

9.6.5    Government Implementation Performance

Insufficient GOI funding, especially in the beginning of the project, and delays of approval of DIP each
year starting in Fiscal Year 2000 disturbed the project implementations and resulted in low disbursement of
the Loan. The influence of the monetary crisis in the country in 1998 had made all sectors not work
properly, and disbursement of the loan was low. The Government cancelled parts of the Loan twice, firstly
on August 26, 1998 in the amount of US$8.0 million and then on December 13, 1999 of amount US$11.8
million. This cancellation affected the target of the project which could not be achieved as planned, and the
Loan was extended three times; from September 2000 to September 2001, then to September 2002, and
lastly to March 31, 2003. The revised physical target have been achieved, but the total amount of
expenditures have exceeded the total loan allocation (US$35.2 million, after cancellation) by about US$5.5
million. The change of organization of executing agency also affected the management of the project. The
Government's implementation performance has been rated as less satisfactory.

9.6.6    Implementation Agency

The implementing agencies (PKSA) have inadequate staff to supervise all the works. There is also a lack
of experienced local consultant supervisors. As a result, the quality of work was not satisfactory. On the
other hand, the PDMUs had no authority to manage their own budget from the loan directly. To support
the project management and operations of the PDMUs, the budget was channeled to other special projects
in provinces under the Provincial Dinas. As a result the budget could not be used optimally by the
PDMUs. Poor management (including reporting system of the special projects and the Provincial Dinas)
have made the monitoring of the monthly physical and financial progress of the project often received late
by the central coordination. The implementation agency performance was rated close to satisfactory.

9.6.7    Overall Borrower Performance

Performance in preparation is rated satisfactory; however, the Government's implementation performance
and the implementation agency performance are rated as less than satisfactory to satisfactory as a result of
many factors beyond the capacity of the borrower. Therefore the overall borrower performance has been
rated close to satisfactory (further improvement needed).

9.7      LESSON LEARNED

The main lessons learned from the project, in order of importance, are as follows:

        l From countries with well-established dam safety programs is that regulatory agencies
             responsible for overseeing dam safety programs are indispensable.         These agencies have


                                                     - 25 -

            usually taken many years (even decades) to evolve to their current format and status.
            Experience in other sectors also indicates that such institutional development is often slower
            than anticipated. Therefore, the time-frame for this project might be too ambitious.

       l Institutional strengthening and training should be prioritized in the future.


       l Overall management of the project should be improved, possibly by the establishment of an
            effective Project Management Unit.

       l The quality of rehabilitation designs must be improved by using selected qualified consultants
            in order to avoid "over designs" or cost over-runs during the construction, as well as to achieve
            an improvement of design and construction supervision.            Better control and the use of
            recognized QA/QC methods would have led to better results for dam rehabilitation works.

       l Most of Basic Dam Safety Facilities (i.e., instruments) which have been installed on dams have
            not functioned properly because of : (i). poor management and coordination during
            construction between contractors, the instrumentation suppliers, and construction supervision
            as well as the client; and (ii) vandalism or theft by irresponsible peoples due to lack of security
            on dam sites as well as lack of in involvement of public at the surrounding reservoir to create
            the sense of belonging and safekeeping the dam. In the future, better management should be
            implemented and also an improvement made in public participation and empowerment at the
            surrounding reservoir.

       l Model Dams for Public Participation and Empowerment for safekeeping the dams are very
            positively responded to by the community in the surrounding area of a dam/reservoir. The end
            result of this concept should be monitored and evaluated before being extended to other dams
            in the future.

9.8     ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

       l The Government commitment on the Dam Safety Assurance Program in Indonesia needs to be
            followed up/strengthened.

       l The institutions which manage the dams and related units, such as the River Basin
            Management Units (Balai PSDA), Provincial Dam Monitoring Units, and Central Monitoring
            Unit, need to be improved to make them sustainable.

       l The contribution of the local Government funds to support the requirement of the efficient O &
            M budgets for each dam needs to be allocated each year to minimize the risk of dam failure
            due to the lack of O & M budgets (not dependent on the Central Government budgets only).

       l It is proposed that there should be a "Bridging Program" after Loan Closure to match with the
            next new loan, otherwise all outputs which have been achieved now will be destroyed and we
            will have to start again from the beginning.

9.9      POST-PROJECT OPERATIONAL PLAN

The Loan for the Dam Safety Project closes on March 31, 2003. The government is fully committed to
continuing the dam safety assurance activities beyond the project period. The following gives a brief
description of the post-operation plan.




                                                    - 26 -

A) Regulatory Activities

The implementing agency through Dam Safety Project proposed funds for remaining effective in 2003,
however the proposal was not successfully approved except for some limited routine Budget for FY2003 to
maintain the momentum of regulatory activities are handled by the Dam Safety Unit. These relate to the
continuation of certification of six dams, and to safety inspections which have been scheduled for twelve
dams in FY2003 and 12-15 dams in FY2004.

The DSU has proposed supplementary clauses relating to dam safety in connection with the draft of the
National Water Act which is being deliberated in parliament at present. Work will be continued on a
Presidential Decree to strengthen the case for recognizing and dealing with the risks posed by dams and
reservoirs. The GOI recognizes that the consequences of failure of dams are comparable to that of other
national disasters, much larger in scale than the damage which could be caused by the failure of other large
hydraulic structures.

There are about thirteen remaining regulations out of a total of 26 which are still in different states of
completion. The process of deliberation and approval of the remaining guidelines will be continued in
FY2003. The DSU will continue to maintain the MIS system which has been established under the DSP.


B) Monitoring and Safekeeping of Dams

These activities are included within the Sub-Directorate of Raw Water, Lakes, Rivers and Reservoirs in the
Directorate of Technical Guidance. During the implementation of the DSP from 1994 to 2002, many
external factors have contributed to delays in issuing a formal instruction about the CDMU and related
agencies. Regional autonomy and the formation of Balai's PSDA also introduced organizational elements
which were not anticipated during the appraisal of the DSP in 1994.

The Ministry is conscious of the need to issue a special decree formalizing the status of monitoring units in
the Center, Provinces, Districts, Projects and State Owned Corporations. The decree will be finalized and
issued in FY2003. At the moment, there are no Rupiah allocations for the CDMU. However, there are
APBN and APBD allocations in the provinces for Monitoring, Operation and Maintenance and an
inventory of these will be made after the DIP is released for FY2003.

The Government recognizes that many management and sustainability issues have surfaced during the
implementation of DSP.        Strategic initiatives such as the Prototype Basins and Model Dams for
Community Participation and Empowerment will be continued with an intensified focus on institutional
strengthening, management and human resources development.

C) Issues of Sustainability

Several issues of sustainability of the dam safety assurance program have been highlighted in this ICR.
These must be viewed in the context of the reform initiatives already commenced under the WATSAL and
proposed to be continued under the WISMP. Capacity building of Basin Water Management Agencies in
the provinces requires much effort and cost. The quality of project management and the more efficient
coordination of dams and dam safety related activities require more attention. The process of training high
quality in-country expertise in dam engineering and dam safety is a longer-term activity requiring
cooperation between the public and private sectors. The GOI sees also a need to disseminate more basic
information about dams and dam safety to the community at large and to legislative, executive, judicial and
administrative agencies.



                                                    - 27 -

In order to achieve greater sustainability over time, the DGWR has entered into a dialogue with the World
Bank regarding assistance to continue the dam safety assurance program. This has been positively received
in principle, and it is hoped that bridging services to continue the momentum of on-going activities and for
preparation of a second dam safety project will commence from the beginning of April 2003. Funding for
these activities will be included in WISMP. At the same time, provision will be made for the operational
costs of on-going activities by DSC, DSU, CDMU and Balai PSDA, which cannot be covered in
government budgets.

D) Strengthening of Balai PSDAs

Decentralization and autonomy have resulted in greater basin management roles assumed by the Basin
Authorities established at Provincial Level. Some major basins of national importance which straddle two
or more provinces will be managed through special corporations.           In all these situations, the most
significant matter which will be handled under WISMP and DSP-II will be the integration of management
at different levels including the significant role to be played by the DGWR in the future.

The Balais need substantial strengthening of skills and competences for all matters related to Basin Water
Resources Management. Existing human resources capacity needs to be strengthened further for dam
engineering and dam safety management. These and other issues selected to emergency preparedness
public awareness campaigns and efficient asset management and O&M of dams and reservoirs will receive
budgets from the districts and provinces. It is proposed to have more involvement by the DGWR in
streamlining the budgetary provisions at different levels as part of the integration process to which the
government is fully committed in the post project operation plan.


(b) Cofinanciers:

Not Applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not Applicable


10. Additional Information

10.1     Environment.

10.1.1   The completed project components helped to increase the safety of the project dams and strengthen
a national dam safety institution. The remedial works did not require land acquisition or resettlement of
people. The innovation to include the surrounding community in the dam safety program is socially
acceptable and received support from the community.

10.1.2   The growing impact of excessive sedimentation as a consequence of watershed degradation,
especially on large dams (such as Senguru and Wonogiri in East and Central Java) was recognized during
the project. The DSU has recognized this growing economic and operational hazard and needs to prepare a
DSC regulation for mandatory sedimentation surveys for large dams, at least once every five years.




                                                       - 28 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Establishment and operationalization of a  Yes                                Yes, the Dam Safety Organization (DSO)
national dam safety institution                                               consists of the DSC and DSU (regulatory
                                                                              bodies) and the CDMU and DMU
                                                                              (owner/operators) and has been established
                                                                              and is in function.

Remedial Works program implemented to      92 dams were rehabilitated         73 dams rehabilitated (including the Jatiluhur
improve safety of dams in Indonesia through                                   Dam)
rehabilitations.

Provision of Basic Dam Safety Facilities   92 BDSF were installed             74 BDSF installed (include one dam without
(BSDF)                                                                        rehabilitation works: Sermo)




Output Indicators:
                                                                         1
                Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Establishment of the Dam Safety            Yes                                Yes, and fully established and functioning as
Commission (DSC)                                                              national oversight entities.


Dam Safety Unit (DSU)                      Yes                                Yes, and fully established and functioning as
                                                                              national oversight entities.


Dam Monitoring Units (DMUs), including one 11                                 10 DMUs created and in operation as part of
Central Dam Monitoring Unit (CDMU)                                            the provincial water resource structure for
                                                                              strategic infrastructure management.


Dam Inspection and Hazard Classification   92 dams                            92 dams


Dam Rehabilitation Designs and             92 dams                            80 and 73 dams
Construction


Training                                   998 Persons                        1,535 Persons


Design Certification for New Dams          Yes                                18


Filling Certification for New Dams         Yes                                10


Operation Certification for New Dams       Yes                                4


Dam Break Analysis                         Yes                                28


Emergency Action Plan                      Yes                                27


MIS                                        Yes                                1 at National Level


Manual and Procedures                      Yes                                26 Manuals and Procedures Prepared

1End of project




                                                           - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Dam Safety Institution                                    3.80            3.24            85.2
2. Remedial Works                                           65.00          41.08             63.2
3. Basic Safety Facilities                                   7.90            4.71            59.6
4. Project Management                                        5.00            5.87           117.4

Total Baseline Cost                                         81.70          54.90
  Physical Contingencies                                     3.80
  Price Contingencies                                       11.90
                          Total Project Costs               97.40          54.90
                  Total Financing Required                  97.40          54.90




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           22.70           48.10         3.00         0.00         73.80
                                  (12.10)         (26.20)      (1.70)         (0.00)      (40.00)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.20         0.50         0.00          0.70
                                   (0.00)          (0.20)      (0.40)         (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        14.40         0.00         14.40
(Incl. Training)                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (14.40)        (0.00)      (14.40)
4. Incr. Ops. Cost                  0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous (Land,             0.00            0.00         0.00         8.50          8.50
Vehicle, Estblisment, Incr.        (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
O&M)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           22.70           48.30        17.90         8.50         97.40
                                  (12.10)         (26.40)      (16.50)        (0.00)      (55.00)




                                                - 30 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 12.30             19.75              0.00             5.30             37.35
                                           (7.50)            (13.42)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (20.92)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.31              0.20             0.00              0.51
                                           (0.00)             (0.18)            (0.12)            (0.00)           (0.30)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             15.10             0.00             15.10
   (Incl. Training)                        (0.00)             (0.00)           (13.72)            (0.00)           (13.72)
   4. Incr. Ops. Cost                       0.00               0.00              0.29             0.00              0.29
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.26)            (0.00)           (0.26)
   5. Miscellaneous (Land,                  0.00               0.00              0.00             1.65              1.65
   Vehicle, Estblisment, Incr.             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   O&M)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                12.30             20.06             15.59             6.95             54.90
                                           (7.50)            (13.60)           (14.10)            (0.00)           (35.20)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Dam Safety Institution       1.70         2.30         0.00        2.62         0.62       0.00       154.1     27.0      0.0
2. Remedial Works              42.10        36.50         0.00       24.90         16.18      0.00       59.1      44.3      0.0
3. Basic Facilities             6.70         2.80         0.00        3.54         1.17       0.00       52.8      41.8      0.0
4. Project Management           4.50         0.80         0.00        4.14         1.73       0.00       92.0     216.3      0.0




                                                           - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At appraisal, the project's main benefits were expected to be a reduction in the risk of dam failures, and
consequently no estimate of economic costs and benefits was made during preparation of this project.
However, the rehabilitation works have improved the operation of dams from sub-optimal uses of its life
storage, for example in Jatiluhur Dam. Based on an international dam panel's recommendation, the water
level was first drawn to a minimum level (+76 meters) during the 1997 dry season. This was in response to
the very long drought, to ensure a continuous supply of irrigation water to 200,000 ha of rice fields
downstream from the dam. The dam had not been operated down to this minimum water level before the
project because of safety considerations. This action saved the 200,000 ha rice crop from serious water
stress and a potential large drops in yields. A simple calculation indicated that the rehabilitation cost was
paid off by the saved production from the water stress. There were many other dams in the project which
could not be operated under their full capacity because of safety reasons. In this case, rehabilitation
assured a more reliable water supply to irrigation areas downstream which had an important economic
implication for the community. The economics of dam safety programs is a relatively recent subject, and
still much in development; however, this implication might be considered in future projects.




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1993                      4    Team Leader;
                                             Procurement./Operations
                                             Specialist;
                                             Dam Safety Specialist;
                                             Senior Engineer

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1994                      5    Team Leader;
                                             Procurement./Operations
                                             Specialist;
                                             Dam Safety Specialist;
                                             Institutional/Organizations
                                             Specialist; Senior Engineer

 Supervision
              11/04/1994                3    Mission Leader;                        S               S
                                             Organization Expert; Dam
                                             Engineer
              05/24/1995                3    Agricultural Economist; Dam            S               S
                                             Engineer; Dam Safety Eng.
              01/30/1996                2    Dam Engineer; Dam Safety Eng.          S               S
              08/13/1996                3    Agricultural Economist; Dam            S               S
                                             Engineer; Dam Safety Eng.
              02/28/1997                3    Agricultural Economist; Dam            S               S
                                             Engineer
              10/03/1997                4    Agricultural Economist; Dam            S               S
                                             Engineer; Civil Engineer; Dam
                                             Safety Engineer
              12/10/1998                3    Civil Engineer; Water Resources        U               S
                                             Engineer
              05/13/1999                3    Team Leader; Civil Engineer;           S               S
                                             Water Resources Engineer
              11/19/1999                3    Team Leader; Civil Engineer;           S               S
                                             Water Resources Engineer
              11/19/1999                2    Team Leader; Civil Engineer            S               S
              12/08/2000                2    Team Leader; Civil Engineer            S               U
              12/08/2000                1    Dam Safety Expert                      S               U
              04/21/2001                3    Task Team Leader; Civil                S               S
                                             Engineer; Dam Safety Institution
                                             Specialist
              09/12/2001                3    Task Team Leader; Civil                S               S
                                             Engineer; Team Assistant
              09/12/2001                3    Mission Leader; Civil Engineer;        S               S
                                             Dam Safety Institution Specialist
              12/12/2001                3    Team Leader; Civil Engineer;           S               S
                                             Dam Safety Institution Specialist
              05/31/2002                3    Team Leader; Dam Safety                S               S
                                             Institution Specialist; Dam Safety
                                             Expert
                                              - 33 -

 ICR
               09/13/2002             5     Team Leader;                      S    S
                                            Dam Safety Institution
                                            Specialist; Dam Safety
                                            Expert; Procurement
                                            Specialist; Community
                                            Development Specialist

Print     Close



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              7.0                          24.0
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 49.2                         190.8
  Supervision                          153.6                         599.2
  ICR                                  12.0*                           32.5
  Total                                221.8                         846.5
*Estimate




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
   Macro policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
   Sector Policies                      H        SU    M       N    NA
   Physical                             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Financial                            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Institutional Development            H        SU    M       N    NA
   Environmental                        H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction           H        SU    M       N    NA
            Gender                      H        SU    M       N    NA
            Other (Please specify)      H        SU    M       N    NA
         Public accountability for
safety
   Private sector development           H        SU    M       N    NA
   Public sector management             H        SU    M       N    NA
   Other (Please specify)               H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Project Management Monthly Progress Report, Dam Safety Project, March, 2003; DGWR, Directorate
of Technical Guidance.

2. Project Status Report, Dam Safety Project, March 2003; DGWR, Directorate of Technical Guidance.

3. Aide Memoire, ICR Mission, February/March, 2003; The World Bank.

4. Consulting Services for Institutional Strengthening and Training, Final Report, December, 2002;
Colenco and its Associates.

5. Survey, Investigation, Design and Construction Quality Review, June/July 2002, FAO Assignment;
Gary D. Rose.

6. Safety Evaluation and Certification of Jatiluhur Dam Project, Technical Reports, Reports 1- 4, July
2002; ACE and its Associates.

7. Safety Evaluation and Certification of Jatiluhur Dam Project, Interim Report, Statement of Overall
Safety of the Project Works,
   August 2002; ACE and its Associates.

8. Safety Evaluation and Certification of Jatiluhur Dam Project, Final Report, Main Dam, September
2002; ACE and its Associates.

9. Development Plan for Dam Safety Unit, June 2002; DGWRD.

10. Report on the Review of the Dam Safety for Certification, November 2002; Dam Safety Review
Board,
   (Bayardo Materon, Raymond P. Benson and John Whiting)

11. Borrower ICR, Dam Safety Project ,Loan No. 3742-IND, March 31, 2003; Government of Indonesia

12. Safety Evaluation, Studies Completion Report, October, 1998, ACE and its Associates




                                                  - 37 -

- 38 -

