                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                              ReportNo.: 47950




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                                      INDONESIA

                               DAMSAFETY PROJECT
                          (CPL-37420; SCL-3742A; SCPD-3742s)



                                      April 1,2009




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit =Indonesian Rupiah

1994    US$l.OO          Rp2144           2001   US$l.OO         Rp 11350
1995    US$l.OO          Rp2220            2002   US$l.OO        Rp 8750
1996    US$l.OO          Rp2330            2003   US$l.OO        Rp 8300
1997    US$l.OO          Rp2398            2004   US$l.OO        Rp 8800
1998    US$l.OO          Rp 11700          2005   US$l.OO        Rp9400
1999    US$l.OO          Rp 7800          2006    US$l.OO        Rp9200
2000    US$l.OO          Rp 8236           2007  US$l.OO         Rp9800

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BalaiPSDA       BalaiPengelolaan Sumber Daya Air or Provincial Water Resources River Basin
                Management Unit
Balai WS        BalaiWilayah Sungai or Central River Territory Organizations
BDSF            Basic Dam Safety Facilities
CDMU            Central DamMonitoringUnit
DGWR            Directorate General o f Water Resources (former DGWRD)
DGWRD           Directorate General o f Water Resources Development
DMU             DamMonitoringUnit
DOISP           DamOperation andImprovement o f Safety Project
DSC             Dam Safety Commission
DSO             Dam Safety Organization
DSP             Dam Safety Project
DSU             Dam Safety Unit
EAP             Emergency Action Plan
FY              FinancialYear
GO1             Government o f Indonesia
ICOLD           International Commission on Large Dams
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IEG             IndependentEvaluationGroup
MPW             Ministry o f Public Works
O&M             Operation and Maintenance
OMS             Operation, Maintenance and Surveillance
PJT             Perum Jasa Tirta or RiverBasin Organization
PLN             State Electricity Corporation
PMF             Probable Maximum Flood
PMP             Probable Maximum Precipitation
PPAR            Project Performance Assessment Report
PWRS            Provincial Water Resources Services
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
WISMP           Water Resources and Irrigation Sector Management Project

Fiscal Year
April 1-March 31




Director-General, IndependentEvaluation                     : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)          : Ms.Cheryl Gray
Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                         : Ms.MonikaHuppi
Task Manager                                                : Mr.Ramachandra Jammi

                                                            i


 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroupassessesthe programs and activitiesof the World Bankfor two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank'swork is producingthe
expectedresults,and second, to helpdevelopimproveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough the
disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWB annuallyassessesabout 25 percent of
the Bank`s lendingoperationsthroughfield work. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those
that are innovative,large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or countryevaluations;those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.
      To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders,and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquartersand
in localoffices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review,and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commented on by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant.The completedPPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review;the borrowers'comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessmentreport has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the IEGWB RatingSystem
       IEGWB's use of multipleevaluationmethods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument,projectdesign, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additionalinformationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved,or are expectedto
be achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions:relevance, efficacy,and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectivesare consistentwith the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistancestrategies and corporate goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers,Operational Policies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project'sdesign is consistentwith the stated objectives.Efficacy is the extent to which the project`s objectives
were achieved,or are expectedto be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expectedto achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiencydimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that developmentoutcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant,Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operationand supportedeffective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (includingensuring adequate
transition arrangementsfor regular operationof supported activitiesafter loadcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes.The rating has two dimensions:quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower (includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
agreements, toward the achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions:government
performanceand implementingagency(ies) performance.Possibleratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                          ...
                                                                          111
Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS               .....................................................................................................................      V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................      V


PREFACE      ......................................................................................................................................       vi1


SUMMARY      ......................................................................................................................................       IX


BACKGROUND           ...............................................................................................................................       1


THE PROJECT         ................................................................................................................................       3

         Objectives       ..........................................................................................................................       3
         Design and Quality at Entry                     .............................................................................................     3
         Implementation            ..................................................................................................................      6
         Monitoring and Evaluation                    ...............................................................................................      6


PROJECT EVALUATION                   ................................................................................................................      7

         Relevance        ..........................................................................................................................       7
        Efficacy      ..............................................................................................................................       8
        Efficiency       .........................................................................................................................        12
        Outcome        ...........................................................................................................................        12
        Risk to Development Outcomes                            ....................................................................................      13
        Safeguard Compliance                    ...................................................................................................       14
        Strengthening Country Systems for Safety of Dams                                             ..................................................   14
        Bank Performance                ..........................................................................................................        14
        Borrower Performance                    ...................................................................................................       15


LESSONS     ......................................................................................................................................        16


ANNEX A    .BASIC       DATA SHEET               ..................................................................................................       19


ANNEX B              OF DAMS SITES VISITED AND ORGANlZATlONSlDEPARTMENTS
CONSULTED  .LIST.................................................................................................................................         23


ANNEX C    .DAM      SAFETY INSTITUTIONSAND DATA REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS                                                                       ...........25

ANNEX D BORROWER COMMENTS
           .                                               ........................................................................................       27

This report was prepared byRamachandraJammi(Task Manager). who assessedthe project inJanuary
2008. Soon-Won Pak urovided administrative suuuort.


                                                     V




                                          ICR*                ICR Review*                     PPAR

Outcome                          Satisfactory             Moderately                  Moderately
                                                         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Institutional                      Modest                   Modest
Development
Impact**
Risk to                                                                                Moderate
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***                   Likely                  Unlikely
Bank                             Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory
Performance

Borrower                         Satisfactory             Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department.The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB productthat seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
**ASof July 1,2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***ASof July 1,2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.




Project              Task ManagedLeader              Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                     Sector Director
Appraisal                H. V. Voothuizen             Anthony Cole                  Marianne Haug
Completion                  llham Abla                Mark D.Wilson                 Andrew Steer


                                              vii


Preface

This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Indonesia: DamSafety
Project.

The Dam Safety Project was approvedon M a y 31, 1994, for a Loan o fUS$55 million
(CPL-37420; SCL-3742A; SCPD-3742s). Following slow implementationand the
economic crisis o f 1998-2000, two loan cancellations were made -US$8.0 million in
August 1998, and US$11.8 million inDecember 1999. By the end o f the project,
US$35.2 million (64% o f the original loan) was disbursed. After three extensions to
allow greater progress inboththe institutional and physical works components, the
project closed on March 31,2003, two-and-a-half years later thanplanned.

The report presents the findings o f (i)an IEGmission to Indonesia during January 21-31,
2008, including visits to 9 project-assisted dam sites and discussions with Government
officials and agencies, project directors and staff, beneficiaries, NGOs, and academia; (ii)
discussion with Bank task managers and other staff inWashington and Jakarta; and (iii)
review o fthe project's implementation completion report, appraisal report, loan
agreement, and other relevant material. The cooperation and courtesies extended to the
IEGmissionby all is gratehlly acknowledged.

The project was selected because it was one of the first two projects (along with the India
DamSafety Project) to focus exclusively onDam Safety, which is also the object ofthe
Bank's OP/BP 4.37 on "Safety o f Dams" and one of the ten safeguard policies o f the
Bank. It also provides input to the ongoing IEGStudy on the Bank's support for Water
Resources Management.

Following standard IEGprocedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for
comments before beingfinalized. Inaccordance with the Bank's disclosure policy, the
final report will be available to the public following submissionto the World Bank's
Board o f Directors.


                                              i x



 Summary

This Project PerformanceAssessment Report reviews the IndonesiaDamSafety Project,
which was approvedin 1994 andclosed in2003. This was the first Bank project in
Indonesia that was devoted entirely to dam safety and only the second worldwide after
the IndiaDam Safety Project (1991-2000).

Prior to the project, there had been long-standing concerns on the part o f the Government
andother stakeholders about sustaining the existing damstructures inthe country and
increasingthe efficiency o fwater use, while makingprovisions to protect society against
potential disasters due to dam failures. At that time, there were no mandatory
government regulations or procedures that required on-going monitoring, analysis and
evaluation o fthe safety o f dams.

The development objective - reduce the risk of damfailures in Indonesia -was
challenging because the relevant Government ministries and agencies lacked the
institutional, technical, and financial capacity to deal with the immediate as well as long
term needs for improving dam safety.

Project implementation was delayed at the beginningdue to a late start o f training and
capacity buildingactivities, and later due to the economic crisis during 1998-2000, as
well as organizational changes.

The project succeeded inestablishing abasic framework for dam safety -where none
existedbefore - at the central andprovincial levels. This was sustained, but with several
shortcomings incapacity, staff and budgetresources. The mainregulatory entities at the
center -the Dam Safety Commission andthe Dam Safety Unit-need to strengthen their
independence andtechnical capacity. They need to emerge as champions for
mainstreaming dam safety concepts, inparticular through highlightingthe costs and
benefits o fbetter dam safety.

Remedial works were carried out at the major Jatiluhur dam, and for 72 other smaller
dams andwere reportedto have produced broadly positive results. Basic dam safety
facilities including dam monitoring instruments were installed as plannedbut their
quality andmaintenance were not up to expectations, andthe equipment has deteriorated
since project completion. Overall project Outcome i s ratedModerately Unsatisfactory.
Taking into account recentpositive developments inrespect o f staffing andbudget
resources, andprogress on over-arching regulation, Risk to Development Outcome i s
ratedModerate.

The project design appropriately balanced the immediate need for rehabilitation o f dams
with the longterm needto create a viable institutional framework for dam safety. The
Bank demonstrated a good understanding o f technical issues and supplemented it with
international expertise increating a sound design for remedial works as well as for
institutions and processes requiredto promote dam safety. However, the Bank

                                              A




underestimated the time neededto buildcapacity from a relatively low base. During
implementation, it could have done more to impress upon the borrower the need to speed
up training and capacity-buildingactivities. Onthe whole, Bank performance is rated
Moderately Satisfacto y. The Government showed steady commitment to the project by
passing enabling legislation ahead o fthe project, andpersistingwith the project inspite
o f the economic crisis. Five years after project completion, the basic institutional
framework for dam safety has been maintained, though with shortcomings relating to
staffing, capacity andbudgetaryresources. However, there have beenrecent positive
developments inimproving staffing andbudget resources, and infinalizing over-arching
regulation. The implementing agency performedwell interms o f carrying out remedial
works, giventhe reduction inresources anduncertainties faced duringthe economic
crisis. However, the implementingagency could have done more inspeeding up the
training component and procurement o f consultants. Overall Borrower performance i s
ratedModerately Satisfacto y.

Keylessons from the project experience are:

        To sustain outcomes ina situation where new concepts andprocesses are
        introduced, the focus on institutional development needs to be maintained during
        the project andbeyond. The risk to dam safety inthis project remains moderate
        or substantiaVconsiderable due to relatively lower attentionto institutional
        development vis-a-vis physical activities duringimplementation and inadequate
        follow-up thereafter.
        New regulatory institutions require technical expertise and adequate operating
        budgets to function in a capable and independent manner. Inthis project,
        shortage of experiencedqualified staff andinadequate operatingbudgets
        contributed to under-performance o f the dam safety regulatoryunit.
        Buildingdam safety institutions can be a longprocess when it requiresmajor
        changes inorganizational attitudes, establishing new work methods, and
        upgrading technical expertise. Insuch cases, the Bank should consider an
        extended commitment through a sequence o fprojects or through adaptable
        program lending (APL).
        Whennew monitoring andreporting procedures are instituted,their purpose
        should be made clear to all those involved, and appropriate and regular feedback
        should be given to those originating the data. Inthis project, there was little
        systematic analysis or feedback from higher levels on dam level reporting, which
        progressively affectedquality and compliance.
        New techniques and equipment should be tailored to the existing level o f
        capacity; facilities and funds for ongoing maintenance; and site security. Most o f
        the relatively sophisticated instrumentationinstalled at dams under this project
        has deteriorated for lack of maintenance.

                                     xi



Project benefits should be quantified to the extent possible inorder to provide
clear economic justification for an investment and improve stakeholder support.
The mainbenefit from this project i s the prevention o f losses from dam failure,
which can be difficult to quantify. However, other benefits such as increased
water supply are more amenable to being quantified and may well justify the
investment.




                                                     Vinod Thomas
                                                     Director-General
                                                      Evaluation


                                                      1


 Background

 1.      Dams are structures for water storage and use inwater supply, irrigation,
hydropower, and flood control. They play a crucial role inmajor sectors of economic
 activity and can contribute to poverty reduction. At the same time, dams can be
 associated with negative environmental and social impacts including those caused by
natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes. Dam Safety concerns itselfwith the
 adequacy o f the operations andmaintenance o f dams, and aims to limit their possible
 adverse impacts on human life, health, property, and the environment, as well as plans for
 dealing with emergencies'. Ensuring dam safety can also improve the efficiency o fwater
resource use, while keeping the dams environmentally and socially sustainable.

2.       According to the World Commission on Dams2estimates, there are around 45,000
 large dams3inthe world, with the largest numbers inChina (22,000), U.S.A (6575), India
 (4,291), Japan (2675) and Spain (1196).

 3.      The World Bankhasbeen involvedinfinancing dams andancillary facilities
 since the 1960s, though the rate o f involvement slowed sharply inthe mid-l980s, with
the focus shiftingtowards ancillary facilities. Inrecent years, there has been greater
emphasis on promoting dam rehabilitation and safety. At the beginning o f 2008, there
were around 70 active projects that contained components relating to damrehabilitation
or dam safety assessment. Ofthese, three projects4(in Sri Lanka, Armenia and Albania)
are predominantly concerned with dam safety.

4.       In1977, the Bankissuedits first formal policyon "Safety ofDams'" that
underscored the importance o f dam safety arising from inadequate designor natural
phenomena. After revisions that incorporatednew thinking on dam safety issues, the
current version o f the Bank's policy was issued in October 2001 (Operational Policy [OP]
4.37, together with Bank Procedure [BPI 4.37). The standards set by this policy are at
least as stringent as those recommended by the WCD. OP 4.37 i s also one o f the ten
World Bank "Safeguard Policies" which require that potentially adverse environmental
and social impacts o f Bank-financedprojects involved with dams be identified, mitigated,
and monitored.




1.2002.Bradlow, D.D.,PalmieriA., Salman S.L.A., RegulatoryFrameworks for DamSafety. World Bank.
2. The World Commission on Dams (WCD) was established in 1988 with a mandate to review the
development effectiveness o f large dams and develop internationally acceptable criteria, guidelines and
standards for large dams.
3. Large dams are defined as those having a height o f 15 meters or more andor a reservoir capacity o f at
least 500,000 cubic meters.
4. Sri Lanka: D a m Safety And Water Resources Planning Project (DSWRPP); Armenia: Irrigation D a m
Safety 2 Project; Albania: A P L 5 For Albania D a m Safety
5. Operational Manual Statement (OMS) 3.80 (1977)

                                                    2


5.       Indonesiai s a vast equatorial archipelago o f 17,000 islands extending 5,150
kilometers (3,200 miles) betweenthe Indian and Pacific Oceans. The largest islands are
Sumatra, Java, Kalimantan, Sulawesi, and IrianJaya. The country has a per capita Gross
National Income (Atlas method) o f US$1420, and a population o f around 220 million o f
which 60% live inJava alone. Lyingnear the intersection o f shiftingtectonic plates,
Indonesia i s prone to the effect of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.

6.       InIndonesia, damshavebeenconstructed since the early 1900s, initiallyfor
irrigation purposes, but increasingly as multipurpose dams for irrigation, power
generation, and flood control, as well as providingwater for major urban centers. Prior to
1965, all dams inIndonesiawere planned, constructed and operated by the Ministryo f
Public Works (MPW). Subsequently, the hydropower facilities were separated from
MPW andplacedunder the State Electricity Corporation (PLN). In1994, there were
about 120 large dams inIndonesia. By 2008, there were 240 dams inthe country, 132 o f
which were "large dams", o fwhich 106 were owned by MPW, 18 by P L N and 8 by
miningcorporations. Together they serve about one millionhectares o firrigatedlands,
and generate 6000 GwH (billion watt-hours) o felectricity. The majority o fthe dams are
located inJava, which contains the largest proportion o f arable landinIndonesia.

7.       The IndonesiaDam Safety Project -the project reviewed inthis PPAR-was
formulated inresponse to long-standing concerns on the part o f the Government about
sustaining the existing dam structures and increasingthe efficiency o fwater use, while
makingprovisions to protect society against potential disasters due to dam failures. In
particular, at the time o fproject preparation, it was estimated that the condition o f more
than 95 large dams owned by the MPW was declining andposed a public safety hazard
largelybecause o finsufficient maintenance.

8.       At the time o fproject preparation, there were no mandatorygovernment
regulations or procedures that requiredon-going monitoring, analysis and evaluation o f
the safety o f dams. The core activities o f the Directorate General o f Water Resources and
Development (DGWRD6)- the main agency under M P W with the responsibility for
managing dams -were focused more on irrigation infrastructure. DGWRDhadmuch
lower priority for operational management o f the dams. More generally, there was an
unevenunderstanding o fthe economic, environmental andsocial dimensions o f dam
operation. Therefore, the project plannedto establish a national regulatory institution for
large dam safety assurance under MPW as well as for undertaking remedial works for the
95 large dams owned by MPW and operated by DGWRDor PJTs (River Basin
organizations7).

9.       The IndonesiaDam Safety Project (DSP) benefited from the experience o f the
IndiaDam Safety Project (1991-2000), which was the first Bank project focused
exclusively on dam safety. At the end o f FY2008, there was no active Bankproject with
damcomponents inIndonesia. However, a Dam Operation and Improvement o f Safety
Project (DOISP) i s under preparation, and will essentially be a follow-up to the DSP.


6. Currently the Directorate General for Water Resources (DGWR)
7. Citarum and Brantas River Basins

                                                3


The ongoing WISMP (Water Resources and Irrigation Sector Management Program)
includes a component to ensure continuity for some dam safety related activities inthe
interveningperiodbetween the DSP and DOISP.

The Project

OBJECTIVES
 10.    The Dam Safety Project's development objective was to reduce the risk of dam
failures in Indonesia through the followingproject components, o f which the first three
were mainly institutional innature, while the last component related to physical works.

    a) Establishmento f dam safety institutions;
    b) Periodic inspections and safety evaluations o f all large dams;
    c) Provision o f basic safety facilities at existing dams where suchprovisions are now
        lacking; and
    d) Implementation o fremedial works at dams with safety deficiencies.

 11.    Duringproject implementation, two additional institutional components were
added:

    e) A "Participatory Dam Safety Program" or "Model Dam" pilot to raise local
        public awareness and community participation for dam safety; and
    f ) The Prototype Basin Management Program to strengthen OMS (operation,
        maintenance and surveillance) inthree selected river basins

The two additional components were added through amendments to the LA. The project
components are listed inTable 1along with the planned and actual costs.


DESIGNAND QUALITY AT ENTRY
12.     The development objective-reduce the risk of damfailures in Indonesia -was
challenging for several reasons. First, the majority o f dams inthe country were inneed
o frehabilitation to different extents. Second, the institutional, technical and financial
capacity for dealing with dam safety issues was weak at all levels o f the Government.
Third, the ministryresponsible for dam safety didnot have enough separation betweenits
"operator" and "regulator" roles as needed for effective management o f dam safety.
Finally, dam safety was viewed by practitioners ina narrow technical manner. Less
attentionwas paid to the larger economic, environmental and social costs andbenefits o f
securing the safety of dams.

13.     Inthis context the project was designed to balance the immediateneed for
rehabilitation o f dams with the longer term needto create a viable institutional
framework, buildcapacity, and to help all stakeholders understand the wider benefits o f
securing dam safety.

                                                      4



Table 1.ProjectObjective,Components.PlannedandActual Costs
OVERALL OBJECTIVE: Reduce the risk of dam failures in Indonesia

Components            Sub-components                                               Costs (US$ million)
                                                                                   Planned     Actual     -
                                                                                                          %
(a) establishingand         Establisha Central Dam Unit in DirectorateGeneral of
strengtheningdam           Water Resourcesand Development(DGWRD);
safety institutions;        EstablishDam MonitoringUnits (DMUs) in 8 provincial
                           water resourcesagencies; Establish DMUs in 3 MPW-
                            managedproject agencies (JatiluhurAuthority;
                            Brantas River Basin Corporationand the Bengawan-
                            Solo Project)                                              3.8       3.2      84
                            Institutionalcapacity building and operational support
                           to the Dam Safety Commission(DSC), Dam Safety
                            Units (DSU),Central Dam Monitoring Unit (CDMU)
                            and DMUs.
                            Provisionof TA (training,seminars,workshops)for
                            DSC and MPW staff.
(b) periodic               TA for carryingout remedialworks for 93 MPW dams
inspections and            where detailed inspectionshad identifiedthe needfor
safety evaluationsof       such works and for upgradingtheir safety condition             included in (9)
all large dams;             (includingthe Jatiluhur Damwith separate TA for
                           supervisionsupport).
(c)provision of basic       Facilities,services and relatedTA for: carrying out
safety facilities at       dam surveys and site clearingto obtain informationfor
existing dams where        detailed safety inspections;
such provisionsare
nowlacking; and             Provisionof communicationsequipment and facilities:        7.9
                            Provisionof instrumentationto record data relevantto
                           the structuralconditionand operational safety of dam
                           structures;and carrying out emergency actionsto
                           ensure the safety of a dam.
(d) implement         Remedialworks and supervisionfor Jatiluhur Dam (30
remedial works at     percentof the total component base cost) and 92 small
dams with safety      dams.                                                          65.0
deficiencies.                                                                                    41.1    I63
(e) "ModelDam"        Incorporatelocal public awareness on dam safety and
                      community participationin dam maintenancefor four pilot
                      dams (Dawuhan, Cenglik, Sermo and Dharma in East,            includedin (9)
                      Central,Yogyakarta and West Java, respectively)
(f) PrototypeBasin    Strengtheningoperation,maintenanceand surveillance
Management            (OMS) proceduresto promotesustainabledam safety              includedin (9)
Program               programsfor provincial DMUs in three selected basins.
(9) Project           This component providedfunds to cover: (i) the
Management            establishment and operation of a central Project
Administrative        ManagementUnit (PMU) with the necessaryfacilities and
Management            equipment; and (ii) supporting TA (4.7 million)for
Financial             institutionalcapacity buildingassistanceto the DSC, DSU,         5.0       5.9      120
Management            and the DMUs, and technical reviews of activities under
Participatory         the Basic Dam Safety Facilitiesand RemedialWorks
program               components
                                                                                                          -


14.      A new institutional framework for dam safety was designedconsisting of a Dam
Safety Commission (DSC), DamSafety Unit(DSU) anda Central Dam Monitoring Unit
(CDMU) at the center; ProvincialDamMonitoring Units(PDMU) at the provincial level

                                                    5


with a DamMonitoringUnits(DMUs) ineachriver basinmanagedby a Provincial Water
Resources Management Unit (Balai PSDA) or by the River Basin Management Office
(Balai or Balai Besar Wilayah Sungai - BBWS). The proposed institutional structure i s
given inAppendix C.

 15.     The DSC would be a standing committee o fdiverse experts reporting directlyto
the Minister o fPublic Works, andensuring that all dam relatedworks conformedto
regulatory guidelines. The D S Uwould be the technical agency for overseeing the
conduct o f dam safety functions all over the country. The "operator" function would be
performedby the Central DamMonitoringUnit (CDMU), which would organize and
execute dam safety-related activities under the DSCDSU's regulatory oversight. Some
separation was to be achieved between the "operator" and "regulator" by locating the
D S U and the C D M Uunder different directorates o f MPW, though ideally, D S Uas the
regulatory unit may have reported to an even higher level. DamMonitoringUnits
(DMUs) were to be created in 8 provinces and intwo RiverBasin Organizations.

 16.     Interms ofcapacity-building, staffofMPW andits Directorate General ofWater
Resources (DGWR: the implementing agency) would undergo classroom-style and on-
the-job training on technical and managerial aspects o f dam safety.

 17.     The framework for remedial w o r h complied with the Bank's OP 4.37 (Safety o f
Dams), which was commendable since this policy was formalized several years after
project effectiveness. The project also provided for installing various basic dam safety
facilities (BDSF) including dammonitoring equipment, and computer software for data
analysis.

 18.     Two small components were addedduringthe extension period of the project in
2001. These were a Participatory Dam Safety Program or "Model Dam" pilot covering
four dams to improve dam security and upkeepincooperation with surrounding
communities', and a Prototype Basin Management Program to strengthenOMS
(operation, maintenance and surveillance) and address the special needs o f three selected
river basinsg.

19.      Prior to project approval, the Government issuedan important enabling
Ministerial Decree on Dam Safety (1994). Inorder to have the remedial works begin
within six months o fproject effectiveness, preparatoryactions were taken including
drafting o f tender documents and pre-qualification o f contractors. Incontrast, such early
preparatory steps do not appear to have been taken for training and capacity building.

20.      There were no major risks identified at the time o f project preparation with the
significant exception o f the ability o fthe borrower and implementingagency to buildthe
required capacity ina relatively short period o f two years before the physical works



8. The "Model Dam" pilot was created inresponse to a rise invandalism and looting inthe wake of the
economic crisis that set induring 1998. The four participating dams were: Dawuhan, Cenglik, Sermo and
D a m dams inEast and Central Java, Yogyakarta, and West Java, respectively
9. Bengawan Solo inCentral and East Java; Citarum basin inWest Java; and Lombok island.

                                              6


components picked up speed. This risk was underestimated, and might have been better
recognized ifthe project preparation team had included an institutional expert with an
understandingofthe Indonesiancontext.



IMPLEMENTATION
21.      The project was planned for implementation insix years during 1994-2000.
However implementation was slow due to several reasons: (i) there were delays
                                                                initially
on the part o fthe Government infinalizing the training needs assessment, and later in
appointing consultants for technical assistance (TA) activities; (ii) economic crisis o f
                                                                     the
 1998-2000greatly reducedthe Government's ability to provide counterpart funds, and
generally created an atmosphere o f uncertainty; and (iii) there were major organizational
changes after a new decentralizationpolicy was implemented in 1999, which particularly
impacted the new institutions, the DSUand the Central Dam MonitoringUnit,through
relocation and reductions instaff.

22.      Four years into the project, remedialworks hadbeen completed for about 30 out
of the targeted 93 dams, leading the Bank and borrower to agree upon canceling remedial
works for 25 low priority dams. Institutional development and capacity buildingalso
continued to be slow. To allow for greater progress inthe physical works and
institutional components, the project was extended three times and the project closed on
March 31,2003, two and a halfyears later thanplanned. At this time, remedial works
were completed for Jatiluhur and 72 other smaller dams; the physical targets for basic
dam safety facilities were substantially met; and institutional development and training
goals were nominally reached. The Prototype Basin Management Program
(Citarum:Jatiluhur; Bengawan Solo; and Nusa Tenggara Barat: Lombok) was designedto
address good dam management & safety practices (see para 1S), but activity was
negligible duringthe two years that the program was operative due to low budgets and
staffing constraints.

23.     The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$97.4 million, o fwhich
US$55.0 million was to be financed bythe IBRD's loan andUS$42.4 by the
Government. Duringthe economic crisis o f 1998-2000, the U S dollar appreciated more
than four-fold relative to the IndonesianRupiah, and the Government was not able to
keep up its counterpart funding. As a result, portions o f the loan were cancelled-
US$S.O million inAugust 1998, andUS$11.8 millioninDecember 1999. By the end o f
the project, US$35.2 million (63% o fthe original loan) hadbeendisbursed.



MONITORINGANDEVALUATION
24.     Design. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) viewedmonitoring and evaluation in
terms o f outputs tracked by implementation schedules for all activities under the project.
The DSUhadthe responsibility for summarizing the progress against these
implementation schedules. Itwas also expected to evaluate the effectiveness and impact
o f the dam safety program, but no specific indicators were provided. It is recognizedthat

                                              7


the Bank's operational guidelines at the time o fproject preparation (1994) did not require
 a logframe to be prepared. There was thus no M&E framework showing a causal chain
 from activities to outputs to outcomes.

25.      Implementation. The DSUprepared progress reportsregularly. The endresults
o f implementation interms o f outputs from all activities are comprehensively reported in
the project implementation completion report. Mandatory technical audits were carried
out by the MPW's Inspectorate General which was a financial rather than a technical
entity and therefore didnot have the expertise to assess the quality and impact from the
outputs.

26.      Utilization. The feedback from the periodic DSUreportshelpedto make
decisions on revising targets duringthe project. The findings from the technical audits
carried out by the Inspectorate General were o f limiteduse intechnical terms for
assessingthe outcome andimpacts from the project. Overall, M&Ei s rated modest.



Project Evaluation

RELEVANCE
27.      The DSP was highly relevant for addressing the long-standing concerns expressed
bythe Government about the state o f existing dam structures inthe country andthe
efficiency o fwater use, as well as the inadequate state o f institutional, regulatory,
technical and financial capacity to deal with these issues. There was a clear need to
broadenthe focus o f the M P W beyond irrigation infrastructure, andto view the
importance o f dam safety in a larger framework o f economic, environmental and social
costs and benefits.

28.      The project development objective reflected the concerns o fmost o f the Country
Assistance Strategies duringthe 1994-2004 period. These concerns included
strengthening public sector management to protect against risk o f dam failures; balancing
central andprovincial responsibilities for development o fpolicy and regulatory systems
andstandards; more integratedwater resources management on a river basinscale; and
integrating environmental concerns into water resource management. The relevance o f
objectives i s rated high.

29.      Onthe whole, the project design was based on a sounddiagnosis o fthe
institutional and rehabilitation needs for dam safety inthe country and reflected
Governmentcommitment. The project designwas based on a good understandingo f
technical issues and supplemented with international expertise increating a sound
framework for remedial works as well as for institutions andprocesses requiredto
promote dam safety. Its significant drawback lay inoverestimating the ability o fthe
borrower to buildthe required institutional capacity ina relatively short period o ftwo
years before the physical works components picked up speed. Relevance o f design is
ratedsubstantial, and overall relevance is ratedsubstantial.

                                                    8



EFFICACY


30.      Institutional development under the project was served by the first three
componentso f the project viz. establishment o f dam safety institutions; periodic
inspections and safety evaluations o f all large dams; provision o fbasic safety facilities;
andthe additional component on the Participatory DamSafety Program.

Establishing and strengthening dam safety institutions
3 1.     Basicinstitutionalframework.Thebasic institutional framework for dam safety
was put inplace largely as planned. The DamSafety Commission was constituted"; and
the D S Uandthe Central DamMonitoringUnitwere created under different directorates"
o f the DGWR. The status o fthese units, nearly five years after project completion, i s
described briefly below:

         DamSafetyCommission. The DSC meets periodically to make
         recommendations directly to the Minister o f Public Works on adheringto safety
         guidelines incarrying out new and existing dam works, based on DSUadvice.
         DamSafetyUnit. FollowingDSP closure, the DSUsuffered from staff attrition
         to the extent that, except for review o f new dam designs, it became increasingly
         unable to carry out its regulatory function o f dam safety inspections (paras 35 &
         49). The D S Upresentlyconsists o fthree sections12each headed by a qualified
         civil engineer and collectively supported by 4 junior technical staff and 13 part-
         timeretiredqualifiedexperienced engineers. Two o fthe originally planned
         sections for training and data no longer exist and their functions are notionally
         distributed acrossthe other units.
         CentralDamMonitoringUnit.The CDMUceasedto exist after the project and
         its functions are since beinghandledby the Sub-Directorate for Operations &
         Maintenance (O&M) which has a broader mandate. This reduces the focus on
         O&M needs for dam safety.
         ProvincialDamMonitoringUnits. Provincial DamMonitoringUnits(PDMUs)
         were created ineight provinces with distinct technical andadministrative sections.
         By2007, all largeriver basins on Java were redefined as "national River Basin
         Territories" reporting to the central government. Thus the large dams inthese
         basins were placedunder new nationally managed and financed River Territory



10. The DSC is chaired by the Director General o f Water Resources (DGWR) with the Head o fthe D a m
Safety Unit(DSU) as the Secretary and members consisting ofrepresentatives o f the Ministries o f Home
Affairs (Civil Defense Agency), Miningand Energy, Industry, and Environment; representatives o f
professional engineering associations, the ResearchInstitute o f Water Resources Development, legal
advisor, and the law enforcement agency.

11. The DSU was placedunder the Directorate o fRivers, Lakes andReservoirs and CDMUunder the
Directorate o f Water Resources Management.
12.The existing sections are: (i)
                                Program and Evaluation, (ii)a mMonitoring and Inspection, and (iii)
                                                             D
Review, Data and Information. (see Annex C).

                                                     9


         Management Units (Balai Wilayah Sungai or Balai WS: see para 33). Thus, the
        role o f the provincial PDMUand River Territory Management Units became
         unclear. Over the years, the PDMUs have ceasedto be structural units and their
         functions have beennotionally distributedamong other staff, leading to a sharp
         deterioration o f capacity for dam safety issues at the provincial level. Two other
        DMUsthat were created intwo PJTs or RiverBasinCorporations-for O&M of
        MPW's large infrastructure inthe Citarum andBrantas basin- are still
         functioning as intended.

         Data collection, reportingand analysis. A standardized dam level data
        reporting fonnatl3 was introducedby the project, andi s broadly followed in
        practice, subject to the state o fmonitoring andrecording instruments. Generally,
         each dam reports to the provincial DamMonitoringUnit every 7 to 10 days.
        After takingnote o fdata that is immediately relevant for dam operations, the
        provincial DamMonitoringUnits submit consolidated reports to the D S Uand the
         Sub-Directorate (O&M) at the center (see Annex C). Butpractically no further
         analysis i s done at any level for longer term prioritization or planning, due to lack
        o f capacity. Dammonitoring software (DAMOSY) introduced during the project
        has not been usedsince andi s now outdated. There has beenno significant
        follow-up on compiling the national inventory o f dams andtechnical
        drawings/documents, which was started duringthe project.

32.     The dam safety function at the provincial level is affectedby an overlap o f
responsibilities betweenprovincial and central river basin units14(Balai PSDA andBalai
Wilayah Sungai or WS respectively). This has implications for efficiency o f reporting -
individual dams inthe river basins have to send reports to both Balais; and budget
responsibilities -Balai PSDA provides for staff and inspections, but major O&M may or
may not come from Balai WS. One possible solution is to have day-to-day activities
under Balai PSDA control, while the larger andmore complex works are assigned to
Balai WS. MPW officials reportedthat these issues are being sorted out inthe larger
context o fwater resource management.

33.     Training and Capacity-Building: Training beganinearnest only inthe year
2000 after the delayedpreparation o f a training needs assessment, and gained focus and
scale only by 2001-2002. Ultimately, about 41 training courses covering 1,535 officials
were heldwithin the country, and 25 officials attended courses/technical tours abroad.
D S U staffreported that the impact o f the training has dissipated over time as trained staff
have retired or rotatedto other positions. The DSUdoes not have the expertise or
budgetary resources to carry out its training function to any extent. New staff have to
learn on the job andthe units depend on the assistance o f retired or outside part-time
experts for continuity.




13. The data covers climatological, hydrological and structuralparameters
14.Following the decentralizationpolicy adopted in 1999, central Government Balai WS were established
to co-manage substantially the same issues as Balsi PSDA inrespect o f large dams inimportant river
basins.

                                                     10


Periodic Inspections and Safety Evaluations
34.      The D S Uperformed quality assurance functions duringthe project under the
guidance o f international consultants for the Jatiluhur Dam and to a lesser extent for the
other project-assisted dams. Presently it is far behindinperforming its crucial hnction
o fmandatory five-yearly inspections o f all large dams to certify their safety or to
establish rehabilitation needs. Against a yearly target o f at least 30 per year, DSUhas
performed only 33 such inspections duringthe five years since project completion,
including 7 emergency inspections inthe wake o f an earthquake and 8 following floods
in2007. Thus, only 18 ofthese inspections havebeenscheduled andpreventativein
nature.

35.      A regulatory framework consistingo f23 guidelines for ensuringdam safety was
formulated during the project. Five years after project completion 2 out o f 23 are still in
the draft stage while 6 others need updating. All guidelines are generally available for use
as technical references, but few o f them have been translated into Bahasa, limitingtheir
utility,especiallyat the provincial level. The DSU's other important function o f
certifying compliance with dam safety guidelines for all new dam construction and
rehabilitation o f existing dams, i s occurring at a slow paceI5. Ingeneral, the DSUis
constrained by a shortage o f staff, inadequate capacity and low budgets incarrying out its
functions.

Basic Safety Fa~ilities'~
36.      A variety o fmonitoring instruments were installedin74 out o f 88 targeteddams.
Butinmost o fthe sites, the quality ofinstallation, supervision andoperationwas below
expectations because o f inexperienced domestic contractors and consultants that carried
out the work. This was exacerbated bypoor management support and control, inadequate
understanding o f the purpose o fthe instruments, lack o f maintenance, and poor site
security. Duringsite visits to 9 dams (see list inAnnex B), provincial officials at almost
all sites reported instances o f instrumentation invarious stages o f disrepair. Sermo dam
was a significant exception with most instrumentsreported to be inworking order.

37.      Emergency Actions Plans (EAPs) - as a component o fbasic dam safety facilities
- werepreparedduringtheprojectfor27damsonthebasisofDamBreakAnaly~es'~
No hrther EAPshave beenprepared since project completion. MPW officials reported
that all dams have arrangements for communicating with the local government, civil


15. At project completion, the DSCDSUhad issued eighteen certifications for new dam designs (public
and private), ten certifications for dam impounding, and four certificates for dam operation (including the
Jatiluhur Dam). Since then, they have approved 6 new approvals for dam design, 5 approvals for filling
and operation, and 18 technical reviews and certifications inprocess.
16. Basic D a mSafety Facilities are broadly defined as items that assist the operation and maintenance
personnel at the dam to assess emergency situations and to respond with timely actions. These include
Surveys (key drawings, reservoir capacity surveys); Communications (primaryand secondary
communication links for operational and flood warning purposes); Instrumentation (Seepage: V-notch
weirs; seepage flow recorders; reservoir level gauges and recorders; raingauges); Site preparation
(clearance of dam and surrounding area); Emergency actions (Emergency actions plans).
17.An analysis that provides an estimation o f downstream flooding effects following dam failure.

                                                     11


defense and law & order officials incase o f an emergency. But these arrangements lack
the comprehensive and analysis-based nature o f EAPs.

38.      There is a shortage o f qualified andexperienced permanent staff for on-site
conduct ofbasic dam safety facilities and overall management o f dam sites. InJatiluhur
Dam, for instance, the 6 permanent technical staff depend on a similar number o fpart-
time retired engineers to assist intheir work The smaller dams have one or two staff
assigned on a full-time basis but better qualifiedtrained persons are needed for this task.

Participatoiy Dam Safety Program or "Model Dam"pilot
39.      An assessment o fthe "Model Dam" pilots infour dam sites by a local university-
based team18does not yield any conclusive evidence o fpositive impacts on the dams and
the local communities. However, anecdotal evidence from dam staff, beneficiaries and a
local NGO19point to some favorable impacts on damupkeep and security, and on
beneficiary incomes through agricultural, recreational and micro-business activities.
Discussionswith university researchers, provincial officials and the local NGOs indicate
that this program may require greater technical support, better coordination between
Government agencies, and a better incentive framework for beneficiaries.

40.      Based on the preceding discussion, each o f the components relating to
establishing and strengthening safety institutions, periodic inspections, safety evaluations,
and the "Model Dam" displayed moderate shortcomings. The component for basic safety
facilities showed major shortcomings. Taking these findings into account, the overall
efficacy o f the institutional development objective served by these components i s rated
Modest.

Remedial Worksand Supervisionfor Jatiluhur and other Dams
41.      The remedial works carried out for the Jatiluhur dam2' (which accounted for 30%
o f the cost for this component) were fully certified for operation in2003 by the
DSU/DSC on the recommendation o f an independent panel o f international experts.
According to M P W and dam officials, subsequent monitoring indicates that the gains
from the project have beenlargely sustained.

42.      The remedialworks that were carried out for 72 smaller dams were not subjected
to the same level o f quality assurance as the Jatiluhur dam. The project ICR reports that
the quality o f remedialworks could be considered `satisfactory' in90% o f these dams.
Butthis assessmentis notbased on formal certification o fthe quality o fremedialworks,
partlybecause the DSUdidnot have sufficient resources, and also because the agency
that conducted periodic technical audits (Inspectorate-General o fMPW) was mainly
gearedto perform financial audits. At the 9 dams that were covered insite visits,



18. Fakultas Pertania Universitas Sebelas Maret.
19. Mulyarejo Foundation
20. The remedial works at Jatiluhur repairs to the main dam structure, protective works to the Pasir
Gombong West and Ubrug dikes, and a study o f the movement behavior and stability of its "Morning
Glory" intake tower cum spillway.

                                               12


provincial andMPW officials reported several positive results from remedial works
including reduction in seepage and leaks, repaved dam crests, improved slopes of the
 downstream dam faces, and sediment removal.

43.      The efficacy o fremedial works and supervision for dams is ratedSubstantial,but
barely so, given the relatively less firm evidence on the results for dams other than
Jatiluhur. Taken together with the Modest efficacy o f institutional development under the
project, overall efficacy i s ratedModest.



EFFICIENCY
44.      The project was delayedby two and a half years due to reasons explained inthe
section onImplementation. Finalproject costs appear commensurate with the revised
targets for remedial works. The project S A R did not include any cost-benefit analysis.
The project ICR notedthat the project's mainbenefits would be a reductioninthe risk o f
damfailures, but evaluation was not done as "these would bedifficult to estimate."

45.      At the same time there are anumber o fdirect andindirect benefits from a dam
safety program that can possibly be estimated, such as water supply for domestic and
industrial use, irrigation, power generation; fisheries andrecreation. For instance, the
ICR notes that after rehabilitation o f the Jatiluhur dam, the water level inthe reservoir
was first drawn to a minimumlevel (76 meters) duringthe 1997 dry season, which could
not have been done earlier due to safety considerations. This helped ensure a continuous
supply o firrigation water to 200,000 hao frice fields downstream from the dam, and the
value o fthe crop that was saved is likely to have more than offset the cost of
rehabilitation.

46.      Taking into account the time overrun and the lack o f sufficient evidence for
establishing benefits, the project's efficiency i s ratedModest.


 OUTCOME
47.      The project documents do not specify any outcome indicators to assess the overall
objective -to reduce the risk of damfailures in Indonesia. One approach to assessingthe
risk o f dam failures inthe country i s to review the safety status o fthe dams as determined
bythe latest inspections, but such information is incomplete or outdated. Inthe
assessment o f the Dam Safety Commission (DSC) as conveyed orally to the IEGmission,
most o f Indonesia's dams are operating nominally ina safe manner, though manyo f them
need attention. Inthe absence o f any supporting evidence, the value o f this assessment i s
limited.

48.      Fiveyears after project completion, the dam safety institutions established bythe
project (Dam Safety Commission and D S Uat the center; andthe provincial DMUs)have
been sustained to a large extent. However, they have a longway to go infulfilling their
intendedroles. The DamSafety Commission i s performing its regulatory role to a
significant extent, but needs to do muchmore infostering awareness o f dam safety issues

                                               13


within the Government and among other stakeholders. The DSUneeds to improve its
credibility as a regulating agency that can provide unbiased and timely assessments o f the
true status of dams; and guide and train provincial and dam level officials. The impact o f
provincial DMUs has reduced sharply due to their marginalization interms o f staff and
resources. The ability to monitor the health o f dams through new instrumentation has
improved only marginally due to the poor quality of installation andmaintenance. While
the remedialworks were completed substantially as plannedduringthe project, there has
been relatively little remedial andrehabilitation activity since project completion despite
pressingneeds.

49.      Onthe basis o fSubstantial Relevance, Modest Efficacy, andModest Efficiency,
the Overall Outcome for the project is ratedModerately Unsatisfactory.



R I S K TO DEVELOPMENT         OUTCOMES
50.      At project completion in2003, Indonesiastill experienced the lingeringeffects o f
the economic crisis. It appeared likely at the time that the gains made by the project
mightbeeroded due to the Government's inability to provide sufficient resources for
dam safety hnctions. A follow-up Bank project was contemplated, but inthe interim,the
Bankhas included abridging component inthe Water Resources and Irrigation Sector
Management Project (WISMP) for financing dam related O&M. While there i s general
awareness of the importance o f dam safety at different levels o f the Government, in
practice, dam safety issues get lower priority incomparison with irrigation and other
water resource management issues. This i s reflected inthe relative lack o f focus on
O&M for dam safety at the center and deterioration incapacity at the provincial level, as
DamMonitoringUnitshavebeentransfonned from structural to functional units with
few resources.

51.      Five years after project completion, the basic institutional framework for dam
safety i s broadly inplace though it i s functioning far below its potential due to shortage
of staff, capacity andbudget resources. More recently, the Government has abolished its
zero-growth policy on civil service staffing which was inplace for the last two decades,
and has recruitedhundreds o f new engineers. DGWRhas increased budgetsboth for
dam safety and for staff working on dam structural issues. The budgetfor 2007 has
grown to about two-thirds o f the requiredlevel (para. 49), from less than 20% during
2000-2004. DGWRhas finally prepared the pivotal Government Regulation on Dam
Safety, which is expected to be issued inearly 2009. Though the role o f the PDMUshas
beenpartly taken over by the newly established River Basin Management Unitso f the
central government, the monitoring capability at the provincial and local level needs to be
re-established. While the current situation i s inmany respects similar to that which
prevailed prior to preparation o f the current project (see para 7), taking into account
recent positive developments inrespect o f staffing andbudget resources, andprogress on
over-arching regulation, Risk to Development Outcome i s ratedModerate.




                                                             4

                                                       14



 SAFEGUARD COMPLIANCE
 52.     The project was appropriately classified inCategory B for compliance with the
Bank's safeguard polices, mainly to cover the possibility o f land acquisition inthe course
ofremedialworks as applicableunder OP 4.30 (Resettlement). Inpractice, no such
acquisition was needed, and the issue o f resettlement o fpeople didnot arise.



 STRENGTHENINGCOUNTRY SYSTEMSFOR SAFETY OF DAMS
 53.     An important objective o fthe project was to strengthen the institutional and
regulatory frameworks for dam safety inIndonesia. The project also sought to strengthen
dam safety considerations inthe process o fbidtendering, construction, O&M and
associated works. These efforts are inline with the principal objectives o f the Bank's
 Safeguard OP 4.37 for "Safety o f Dams"21.

54.      The project also introduced a comprehensive set o f dam safety regulatory
guidelines which brought the country's standards inline with those o f the Bank. This
can facilitate the Bank's new approach for using Country Systems22for environmental
and social safeguards infuture projects that involve dam safety and rehabilitation.

55.      Thus the project has helpedto advance the framework o f safeguards for safety of
dams inthe country and to mainstream it to some extent at the central andprovincial
levels. However, as discussed under the section on Outcome, Indonesiahas a long way to
go inconsolidatingits dam safety institutions, especially inproviding them with adequate
resources to function effectively.



BANKPERFORMANCE
56.      Project design was appropriate to the country's needs. It balanced the immediate
needfor improving safety o fdams inthe country with the need to institutionalize dam
safety concepts andprocesses inthe long term. The Bank demonstrated a good
understanding o f technical issues and supplemented it with international expertise in
creating a sound design for remedial works as well as for institutions and processes
required to promote dam safety. But, inretrospect, the Bank was optimistic about the



21. Two important objectives o f the Bank's Safeguardpolicy for "Safety o fDams" (OP 4.37) are to: (i)
work with the borrowing countries to strengthentheir institutional, legislative, and regulatory frameworks
for dam safety programs; and (ii)  ensure that the borrower adopts and implements dam safety measures for
the design, bid tendering, construction, O&M o f the dam and associated works, and to make sure that
experienced and competent professionals design and supervise construction
22. In2005, the Bank launched a Country Systems pilot to explore using a country's own environmental
and social safeguard systems, where they are assessed as being equivalent to the Bank's systems, inBank-
supported operations. K e y to the approach would be an increased emphasis by the Bank on capacity-
building

                                                         15


ability o f the Government and implementing agency to respond to training and capacity-
buildingefforts ina short period o ftwo years.23 The project ICRacknowledges that
project preparation should have included an institutional expert with knowledge o f the
Indonesianlegal and regulatory systemright inthe beginning. On the whole, quality at
entry is ratedModerately Satisfactory.

57.      Duringthe economic crisis, the Bankworked to easethe Government's
requirement for counterpart funds throughraising the disbursement percentage for civil
works from 55 to 80 percent from 1999 onwards. The Bank also showed flexibility in
extending the project to enable completion o f on-going activities.

58.      TheBank's supervision missions appropriately advised the implementing agency
to urgently strengthenthe capacity o f the DSU, ifnecessary through co-opting
experienced engineers from PLN. But the Bank could have done more duringthe mid-
term review to ensure that satisfactory training and quality assurance arrangements were
inplacebefore continuing with remedialworks andinstallationofbasic damsafety
facilities. The Bank's supervision i s ratedModerately Satisfactory. Overall, Bank
performance i s ratedModerately Satisfactory.



BORROWER           PERFORMANCE
59.      Government commitment to the project was broadly consistent. An important
enabling Ministerial Decree for Dam Safety (1994) was passed ahead o fproject
effectiveness, and the Government persisted with the project duringthe economic crisis.
The current Ministerial Decree i s inthe process o fbeing replaced by a more
comprehensive PresidentialDecree that carries greater coverage and authority. The
Government has maintainedthe basic structure o f dam safety institutions created during
the project, which continue to carry out several important functions, though considerably
below their potential.

60.      To some extent, the Government could have insulatedthe new dam safety
institutions from the effects o f at least two rounds o f organizational changes24,which
resulted inrelocation o f the units, loss o f trained staff, and diluted focus on dam safety
issues. It i s recognizedthat the Government has beenconstrained inproviding more staff
to the dam safety institutions due to the overall zero-growth policy towards civil service
staffing duringthe last two decades. More recently, the Government has abolished its



23. The S A R (paragraph 6.3) states that'I...there i s a relatively small riskthat it may take longer than at
present anticipated for the new dam safety institutions to become operational and for their staff to be
trained to the level requiredto manage nationwide program        ...'I.


24 In 1999, MPW was split into the Ministry o f Settlements and Regional Development (KimBangWil) and
a State Ministry for Public Works ((MeNegPu). DSC and the Project Management Unitremained with
KimBangWil, while D S U was places with MeNegPu and several o f its staff were transferred out. In2000,
the two ministries were combined into the Ministryo f Settlements andRegionalInfrastructure
(KimPrasWil) within which the present DGWRwas located, and the D S U was transferred back to the new
ministry,before the current structure as inAnnex C emerged.

                                              16


zero-growth policy, and hundreds o fnew engineers have been recruitedrecently. On
balance, government performance i s ratedModerately Satisfactory." The Government
still needs to provide greater budget resources to the dam safety institutions, and increase
allocations for dam O&M based on prioritized needs. Onbalance, government
performance is ratedModerately Satisfactory.

61.     The implementingagency, DGWR, initially tended to focus more on
administrative and financial matters than on effective implementation andadherence to
its own quality assurance requirements. But this improved significantly towards the end
o f the project. The `training needs assessment' was delayed, as was the appointment o f
consultants for technical assistance. Duringthe project, DGWR could have done more to
ensure that the DSUwas staffed adequately, even ifit meant co-opting experienced staff
from PLNas suggested by the Bank. Financial management, progress reporting,
accounts, audits andprocurement were adequate. Implementing Agency performance i s
ratedModerately Satisfactory, but barely so due to the initial delays intraining and
remedial works. Overall, Borrower performance i s also ratedModerately Satisfactory,
albeit marginally so.


Lessons

Keylessons from the project experience are:

        To sustain outcomes ina situation where new concepts andprocesses are
        introduced, the focus on institutional development needs to be maintained during
        the project and beyond. The risk to dam safety inthis project remains moderate
        due to relatively lower attention to institutional development vis-a-vis physical
        activities duringimplementation and inadequate follow-up thereafter.
        New regulatory institutions require technical expertise and adequate operating
        budgetsto function ina capable and independent manner. Inthis project,
        shortage o f experiencedqualified staff and inadequate operating budgets
        contributed to under-performance o fthe dam safety regulatory unit.
        Buildingdam safety institutions canbe a longprocess when it requires major
        changes inorganizational attitudes, establishing new work methods, and
        upgrading technical expertise. Insuch cases, the Bank should consider an
        extended commitment through a sequence o f projects or through adaptable
        program lending (APL).
        When new monitoring andreporting procedures are instituted, their purpose
        should be made clear to all those involved, and appropriate and regular feedback
        should be given to those originating the data. Inthis project, there was little
        systematic analysis or feedback from higher levels on dam level reporting, which
        progressively affected quality and compliance.
        New techniques and equipment should be tailored to the existing level o f
        capacity; facilities andfunds for ongoing maintenance; and site security. Most o f
        the relatively sophisticated instrumentation installed at dams underthis project
        has deteriorated for lack o fmaintenance.

                                     17


Project benefits should be quantified to the extent possible inorder to provide
clear economic justification for an investment and improve stakeholder support.
The main benefit from this project i s the prevention o f losses fiom dam failure,
which can be difficult to quantify. However, other benefits such as increased
water supply are more amenable to beingquantified and may welljustify the
investment.


                                          19                                  Annex A


AnnexA. BasicDataSheet

INDONESIA (L3642-IND)
                DAMSAFETYPROJECT



                                       Appraisal      Actual or        Actual as % of
                                       estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                       97.4          54.9                 56
Loan amount                               55.0          35.2                 64
Co-financing                               --             __                 _ _
Cancellation                               _-           19.8                 --

CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements
                  FY95  FY96  FY97   FY98    FY99   FYOO   F Y O I FY02   FY03   FY04
Appraisal          4.6   13.8 29.4   41.3    48.6   53.5   55.0    55.0   55.0   55.0
estimate
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)     3.0     7.8 14.8    19.9   23.8   28.7   31.2    33.4   35.2   35.2
Actual as % of     65     56   50     48     49      54      57     61     64     64
appraisal

Date of final disbursement:   10/06/04




                                             Original                  Actual
PCD                                                                   04/07/1993
Appraisal                                                             09/27/1993
Board approval                                                        05/31/1994
Effectiveness                               08/23/1994                08/23/1994
MTR                                         09/22/1997                09/22/1997
Closing date                                09/30/2000                0313112003

ANNEX  A                            20




    Stage of Project Cycle                Staff weeks                  US$ (`000)
                                                                               ~

  Identification/Preparation                      7.0                        24.0
  AppraisaVNegotiation                           49.2                      190.8
  Supervision                                   153.6                      599.2
  ICR                                           12.0*                        32.5
  Total                                         221.8                      846.5


Mission Data

Date                    No. of        Specializations        lmplementation  Development
(month/year)           persons          represented              status         objectives
 Identification/
 Preparation                  4 Team Leader;
1993                            Procurement./Operations
                                Specialist;
                                Dam Safety Specialist;
                                Senior Engineer


 Appraisal/
 Negotiation                  5 Team Leader;
1994                            Procurement./Operations
                                Specialist;
                                Dam Safety Specialist;
                                InstitutionallOrganization
                                s Specialist; Senior
                                Engineer

 Supervision
11/04/1994                    3 Mission Leader;                    S                S
                                Organization Expert;
                                Dam Engineer
05/24/1995                    3 Agricultural Economist; Dam        S                S
                                Engineer; Dam Safety Eng.
01/30/1996                      Dam Engineer; Dam Safety           S
                                Eng.
08/13/1996                      Agricultural Economist; Dam        S
                                Engineer; Dam Safety Eng.
02/28/1997                      Agricultural Economist; Dam        S
                                Engineer
10/03/1997                    4 Agricultural Economist; Dam        S
                                Engineer;Civil Engineer;
                                Dam Safety Engineer
12/10/1998                    3 Civil Engineer;Water               U               S
                                Resources Engineer
05/13/1999                    3 Team Leader; Civil Engineer;       S               S
                                Water Resources Engineer
11/I9/1999                      Team Leader; Civil Engineer;
                                Water Resources Engineer
11/I9/1999                      Team Leader; Civil Engineer
12/08/2000                      Team Leader; Civil Engineer
12/08/2000                      Dam Safety Expert
04/21/2001                      Task Team Leader; Civil
                                Engineer; Dam Safety

                                                                                                       21                                                                                              Annex A


    Date                                         No. of                                         Specializations                                     Implementation                            Development
    (month/year)                            persons                                              represented                                                         status                       objectives
                                                                   InstitutionSpecialist
 09112/2001                                            3           Task Team Leader; Civil                                                                               S                                       S
                                                                   Engineer; Team Assistant
 09/12/2001                                            3           Mission Leader;Civil                                                                                  S                                       S
                                                                   Engineer; Dam Safety
                                                                   InstitutionSpecialist
  12/12/2001                                           3           Team Leader; Civil Engineer;                                                                          S                                       S
                                                                   Dam Safety Institution
                                                                   Specialist
 05/31/2002                                            3           Team Leader; Dam Safety                                                                               S                                       S
                                                                   InstitutionSpecialist; Dam
                                                                   Safety Expert

      ICR
 09113/2002                                            5             Team Leader;                                                                                        S                                       S
                                                                      Dam Safety Institution
                                                                      Specialist; Dam Safety
                                                                      Expert; Procurement
                                                                      Specialist;Community
                                                                      DevelopmentSpecialist



 Other ProjectData
 Borrower/ExecutingAgency:

 FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
.............
     "      "  .I  . .I ...........I" ............ .. "   ......". .... ...-..".I.....I.........I   .... ......"....."......_.."."..I_. .ll...l ............I. ..,,,.. ..  . ,. ................................. ..........I. ...
                            Operation                                                                     Credit no.                                 Amount                             Board date
                                                                                                                                               (US$ million)
 Indonesia Dam Operational Improvementand                                                                               -_                                       _ _                   12/16/08 (R)
 Safety Project (DOISP)


                                              23                                 Annex B


Annex B. List of Dams Sites visited and
Organizations/Departments consulted

DamSites visited




OrganizationsandOfficesconsulted

Indonesia
Directorate-General o f Water Resources, Ministryo f Public Works
Director, River Lakes and Reservoirs, DGWR
Dam Safety Unit
Dam Safety Commission
Balai PSDA and Balai WS and Dam Site Office Staff o f the 9 Dams listed above
Study Team for "Model Dam" from Universitas Sebelas Maret
Mulyarejo Foundation

World Bank

Project Task Team Leader and Water Sector Team, World Bank Country Office, Jakarta
East Asia Rural Development, Natural Resources & Environment Division, World Bank, Washington
D.C.


                                                           25                                              Annex C


Annex C.DamSafety Institutionsand Data Reporting
Relationships


                                                             ~

                                        MPW (Ministryof                                        Ministryof Public
                                        PublicWorks)                                           Corporations




                                         Directorateof                 Directorateof Water
                                         Rivers, Lakes                  Resource
                                         and Reservoirs                Management




                                       I            I :         I        I                        I

                                                      I                                           1

 Monitoring         Field             Dam             !;--------     . - ~I .----_ _----
                                                      I  I Dataand       1 [   Training           i
 &                  Monitoring        Design                                                   1I !
 Evaluation         and               and             ii II Records ; i I and
                                                            Section*                              1
 Section            Review            Review          I 1------_-__-.Monitoring
                                                                         ,. j_                    I
                    Sections          Section         !                  !I ; _Section*_ _ _ _ _[I
                                                                               _ _ _ _ _       1 :I

                                                      I                  I

                 II Dinas PUP(Provincia1Water                     1.L
                    ResourcesServices)                             l                                i
                    PDMU (Provincial Dam Monitoring                          Balai Wilayah
                    Unit)                                                    Sungah (WS)
                                                                             (CentralRiver


                                     Balai PSDA                          I      -                   I

                                     (River Basin                                  /./
                                     Management                                /./
                                     Unitsof Bali                                                    Basin
                                                                             /'
                                     Dinas PUP)                          /
                                                                        /

                                                   \.                 /
                                                     \.'.        /./
                                                               /'
                                                           \ /
                                                            . .
                                         Dam Units 1, 2, 3.....N




*Unitsdo notpresentlyexist
-SinceJan 2008, the Sub-Directorateof O&M is under the Directorateof Rivers, Lakes and Reservoirs
          -,-,-             Dab ReporfingRelationship


                                                          27                                         Annex D


        Annex D. Borrower Comments

FROM :DIT. SDW                               FRX NO. :0217261292                  Mar. 30 2809 16:30         P I




                          D E P A R T E M E N                P E K E R J A A N                U M U M
                          D I R E K T O R A T J E N D E R A L S U M B E R D A Y A A I R
                          31. Pattimura No.20 Kebayoran BaruJakarta Selahn 121iOTelp. 7396616 Fax. 7208285



             RyF: HL-ol-02-D&w                                                       Jakarta, March27,2009

             To :
             MonikaHuppi
             Manager sector EvaluationDivhion
             Independent EvaluationGroup
             The World Bank



             Re :INDONESIA DamSafety Project (CPL-37420;SCL3742A; SCPD-3742s) Draft
             Projectperformance Assessment Report

             Dear Madame,
             Concerningthe World Bank's letter dated March5,2009, for the above mention subject,
             we hereby send you our explanation to the achievement of the importantcomponent of
             the DamSafety Project,                        .
             1.      RemedialWorks,

                    Duringthe DamSafety Project, 73damshadbeenrehabilitated, consistingof onebig
             of JatiIuhur dam and72smaller dams. Inour opinion, the completionof remedialworks
             and supervisionof Jatiluhur damcontribute the significant positive impact to the national
             program After remedial works of Jatiluhw dam which is has very high hazard
             classification, the physical risk of failure of this dam was significantly reduced. As
             additionalbenefit, the services ofJatiluhur damafter remedialworks to continuously
             supply of 224,000 ha irrigationarea, supply of rawwater of 16m3/second to Jakarta city,
             andpower supply of 110MW,concluded thehighachievementto thewholeproject.

             2.    Performance d DamSafety Commiaaion(DSC) and DamSafety Unit (DSU)

                    Uponthe effectiveness of DamSafety Project, the DarnSafety Commissionand Dam
             Safety Unit, were supported to meet the main goal as independent body incharge with
             makingrecommendations to the Minister of Public Worksondamsafety issues. We agree
             to the Bank that lack of engineer appointed as staff to DSU makingless performing its
             five-yearly inspections of all large darns to certify their safety ox to establish rehabilitation
             needs. However until the end of the year 2008, the DSU have already finished eighteen
             certifications for new designs, thirteen certifications for dam impounding, fifteen
             certifications for damoperation, andnowseventeen certifications of damunder process.
             We thereforeconcludedthat, eventhoughwiththe limitation of technicalstaff assignedto
             mu,the performance of DSUto supportDSChasbeenratedsatisfactory, Andtocatch
             upthetarget, wewidgiveanattention tostrengthenthe DSU.

FROM :DIT. SDW                          FRX NO. t0217261292                 Mar. 30 2009 16:31    P2


                                                    28




             3.   DamMonitoringUnitandThe Government's Effortsto Strengthenthe Operation
                  andMaintenanceof Dams

                  The establishment of Central dam MonitoringUnit (CDMU) and DamMonitoring
             Unit (DMU) were meet the target as stated inthe Staff AppraisalReport of DamSafety
             Project. Eventhough the performance is slightly below the expectation, two other DMUs
             that were created intwo PJTsfor O&M of M P W ' s large infrastructure inthe Citarumand
             Brantasbasinas mentioninBank's letter are still functioning as intended+
             The government is fully committed to providing ongoing support to strengthening the
             CDMU/DMU, andpreparationof adequateO&Mbudgetfor darns.

                    We also informyou the govemmenfs effort to clearing the role of the provincial
             DMU and River Territory Management Units through provision of Director General
             Water Resources Letter no UM 01 03-Da/08 dated January 9, 2009 subjected the
             application of Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between BBWS/BWS (National
             River Basins Organization, under the control government) and Provincial Water
             ResourcesOffice, Basedon this MOW, continuationof O&M of dams wouldbe gradudy
             become better,

                    Basedonthe abovecoment, we therefore concluded that the overallDamM e t y
             Projectisratedsatisfactory, andwe hopethat this explanationwillbereflectedas pos3ive
             impacttothefinalreporttoBoardof ExecutiveDirectorsof theWorldBank.



                                                                  Yours sincerely,




             cc:

             1. MinisterofPublicWorks
             2     Secretary General of PublicWorks
             3.   Deputychirman,InfrastructureBappenas
             4.   Directorof Water Resources andIrrigationBappenas
             5.   Director of ProgrammingGuidance DirectorateGeneral of Water Resources
             6.   Directorof Rivers, Lakes andreservoirs DirectorateGeneralof Water Resources
             7,   Headof Damsafety UnitMinistry of PublicWorks

