LOCUMENTS         IT NUMBER 943 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC O MALI
and
IMERNATIONAL DEVPLOPNENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   /4a,lp             7       1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 943 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1979, between
the REPUBLIC OF MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Asso-
ciation.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) part of the Project will be carried out by the District
of Bamako (hereinafter called the District) and a part thereof by
the Municipality of Mopti with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
District and to the Municipality of Mopti a portion of the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) by letters addressed by the Association to the Minister
'of Finance and of Commerce of the Borrower on April 13, 1977 and
January 31,1979, the Association granted advances to the Borrower
totalling $480,000 for the preparation of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms of said advances the amounts
thereof are to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Association, the Dis-
trict and Mopti;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Association, the District and the Municipality of Mopti of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedtles to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)  "Financing Agreement" means either of the agreements
to be entered into between the Borrower and the District and the
Municipality of Mopti, respectively, pursuant to Section 3.01 (d)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Financing Agreements;
(c) "CAFOBA" means - the Caisse FonciAre de Bamako, a land
management agency of the Borrower to be established under the
Project; and
(d) "Project Unit" means the unit to be established pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account


﻿-3-
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advances referred to in the Preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advances shall automatically be cancelled on the
same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June l and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1989, and ending June 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of suct principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts C (2), D
(2), E, F and G of the Project and shall cause the District to
carry out Parts A, B, and C (1), and the Municipality of Mopti to
carry out Part D (1) thereof, with due diligence and efficiency


﻿-4-
and in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial,
economic and technical practices and standards, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall establish and maintain a Project Unit, headed by a qualified
and experienced Project Director, as described in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the District and the Municipality of Mopti to
perform in accordance with the Project Agreement and the Financ-
ing Agreements, all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the District and the Municipality of
Mopti to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(d) The Borrower: (i) shall relend to the District the
proceeds of the Credit allocated and withdrawn from the Credit
account for Parts A (1) and (4), B, and C (1), of the Project and
shall make available as grants to the District the proceeds of the
Credit so allocated and withdrawn for Parts A (2) and (3) thereof
and (ii) shall relend to the Municipality of Mopti the proceeds of
the Credit allocated and withdrawn from the Credit Account for
Part D (1) of the Project, under Financing Agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and the District and the Munici-
pality of Mopti, respectively under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the
Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either
Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall transfer title to the
land in Magnambougou included in the Project to the District
prior to the allocation of lots.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. CAFOBA, to be established under Part G (2) of
the Project, shall have such powers, duties and procedures as
are specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall (i) cause the District, the
Municipality of Mopti, the Directorates of Water Resources and
Energy for the 1st and 7th Regions, the National Directorate of
Urbanism and Construction and any other agency charged with
carrying out any part of the Project, to keep separate accounts
relating thereto and to furnish certified copies of such accounts
to the Project Unit at the close of each year; and (ii) cause the
Project Unit to prepare consolidated yearly accounts on the basis
thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary or useful on its part to authorize and enable the costs
of the Project to be recovered from the beneficiaries thereof in
the manner and to the extent set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿IiI
-6-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower
and the Association of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the classrooms
and the health facility established under Part A (3) of the
Project be provided with the funds and personnel required for
their operations.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall exchange views with the
Association on any proposed new program of housing construction.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause the District to main-
tain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and


﻿-7-
financial condition and shall ensure that: (i) all accounts with
respect to the Project be kept separate from the other accounts of
the District; and (ii) that there be retained, until one- year
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures for the
Project on account of ,which withdrawals are requested from, the
Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures, and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall take such steps as are
necessary to ensure that the Project unit:
(a) has the consolidated accounts referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement audited for each fiscal year in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including, without limitation to the foregoing, sepa-
rate opinions by said auditors: (i) on the separate accounts
referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement; and (ii) in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in Section 5.01 (ii-)
of this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure have been used to make payments for goods received, or
works or services performed, and that such goods, works and
services were eligible for financing under this Agreement and were
used in the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) furnish to the Associatiori such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements relating to the
Project and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) hereof:


﻿8-
(a) the District or the Municipality of Hopti shall have
failed to carry out any of their obligations under the Project
Agreement; and
(b) the District or the Municipality "'    Mopti shall have
failed to carry out any of its obligations under its Financing
Agreement with the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to, paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall have con-
tinued for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  the Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and the District; and
(b) the Borrower has opened a special account in the name
of the Project Unit in the Development Bank of Mali for the
financing of the Project, in an amount of at least 100 million
Malian francs.                                                             4
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b,) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the District and by the Municipality of Mopti, and
is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its terms;
and
(b) that the Financing Agreement between the Borrower and
the District has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and the District and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the
District in accordance with its terms.


﻿i~-             9   -
9-
Section 7.03. The date February    5, 1980, is hereby speci-
fled for the purposes of 3ection 12ti              General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower;     reages
Section 8.01. The Minister of th..        e  -ëspon%:1}e for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for thé
purposes of Section 11.3 of the General Conditions-
Section K.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrover:
Ministère des Finances'et du Commerce
Koulouba
Republic 'of Mali
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFINANCES                         972559
Koulouba
For the Association:
International Devlopment Association
1818 H Street, N.'.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿- 10 -
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice Président
Western Africa


﻿Ap
- 11.-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category*             Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                70%
(a) District: Parts       3,200,000
A, B, C and G
(b) Mopti: Part D (1)        20,000
(c) Gao and Kayes:          300,000
Part D (2)
(2) Equipment, vehicles                       100% of foreign
materials and supplies                    expenditures or,
if purchased
domestically, 80%
of local expendi-
tures
(a) Parts A (3), C (2)    2,160,000
and G
(b) Mopti: Part D (1)       200,000
(c) Gao and Kayes:          100,000
Part D (2)
(3) Refinancing:              1,000,000     100%
Part A (4)
(4) Project Unit                 40,000     80% of local
operating costs                         expenditures
*    References to Parts are to Parts of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 hereof.


﻿-12-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category*            Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(5) Services of                3,000,000     100%
consultants and
experts
(6) 1Refunding of ad-            480,000     amount outstand-
vances for                               ing at Effective
Project preparation                      Date
(7) Unallocated                1,500,000
TOTAL     12,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of (i) expenditures incurred
*    References to Parts are to Parts of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 hereof.


﻿-13-
prior to the date of this Agreement; provided, however, that
withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of $450,000
may be made under Categories (2) and (5) for expenditures incurred
prior to such date but after June 1, 1979; or (ii) Part D (1) of
the Project until the Borrower and the Municipality of Mopti have
entered into their Financing Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way res-
tricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Asso-
ciation' s reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower, the District,
the Municipality of Mopti and the towns of Gao and Kayes in
providing affordable urban services, particularly shelter, water
supply, garbage collection, drainage, schools and facilities
for health, to low-income urban residents. The Project, to be
administered by the Project Unit, includes the following:
Part A   Neighborhood Improvements:
1.   Upgrading the neighborhood of Magnambougou in the District
(about 100 ha) and developing sites-and-services adjacent to such
neighborhood, including provision of infrastructure, and alloca-
tion of lots;
2.   Construction of off-site infrastructure necessary for the
neighborhood referred in 1 above; construction of drainage outlets
in Rozola-Niarela;
3.   Construction of about 24 primary school classrooms and
one health center in Magnambougou; and
4. Provision, through the Housing Directorate of the District,
of refinancing of the costs incurred by the beneficiaries of Parts
A (1) and C of the Project, for the purchase of construction
material, hiring labor, acquiring lots, and purchasing tools and
equipment (about 400 tools or equipment loans) as provided in
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
Part B:   Municipal Assistance
1.   Purchase of vehicles, equipment, material and supplies
for garbage collection and for cleaning, repair, and maintenance
of drainage ditches;
2.   Repair, relocation or construction of about 120 standpipes,
in the District;
3.   Construction of 10 public lavatories and of the Municipal
workshop and depot of the Technical Directorate of the District
(Voierie); purchase of materials and equipment for the purpose;
and


﻿- 15 -
4*,  Organization of the, District's Housing Directorate and
reorganization of its Technical Directorate; training of their
staff.
Part C:   Markets
1.   Construction of four retail markets in the District; and
2.   The promotion of the use of local building materials;
training of construction workers and the purchase of equipment for
the purpose.
Part D:   Secondary Cities
1.   Construction of garbage collection points, and public
toilets, purchase of vehicles, materials and equipment for sewage
and garbage collection in Mopti; .and
2.   Repair, reinforcement and construction of water-supply
networks and purchase of equipment therefor, in Gao and Kayes.
Part E:   Project Administration and Execution
1.   Training of staff of the Project Unit; auditing of Project
accounts; and
2.   Conducting aerial surveys and production of photoplans of the
District for the Regional Directorate of Taxes and the Land
Registry of the District.
Part F:   Studies
Studies to establish an investment program for the District,
(including the completion of the structural plan) and for the
preparation of a future urban project.
Part G:   Assistance to Institutions
1.   Purchase of vehicles, equipment, material and supplies for
the Project Unit, the Regional Directorate of Taxes, the Land
Registry and the Housing Directorate of the District; and


﻿기


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "'Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1077 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the                   A
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Project Unit, on behalf of
the Borrower, the District or the Municipality of Mopti, as the
case may be, shall prepare and f ' orward to the Association as soon
as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or pre-
qualification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form aixd detatl and containing.                Y"
such information as the Association shall,,reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Project Unit shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured -on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import tekxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in Mali


﻿-18-
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the, eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mali if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Mali and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mali equal to at least 20% of 'the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Mali.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿I 19I
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower, the District and the Municipality of
Mopti, as the case may be, may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such infor-
mation, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification accepted by the
Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a
domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate
the preference and the method that will be followed in the eva-
luation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Project Unit, responsive bids will be classified into the follow-
ing groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids.offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$400,000 for municipal services and community facilities, and
for civil works in Gao and Kayes, may be procured following the
applicable procedures of the Borrower for competitive bidding.
2.   Items of equipment or materials estimated after grouping to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 may be procured on the


﻿-20-
basis of quotations solicited from at least three competing
suppliers; provided that unless otherwise agreed with the Associa-
tion, the total of such procurement shall not exceed the equiva-
lent of $800,000.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
1.   With respect to all civil works contracts and all other
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Project Unit shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Project
Unit shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the Project
Unit, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of the Project Unit
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
~A


﻿- 21 -
2.   With respect to eackm contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Project Unit shall frnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution an&-i or to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cpst of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Project Unit shall
inform the Association of the-proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
The clearing and repair of drainage ditches and the repair of
standpipes may be carried out under force account by the District.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
The Project Unit will report directly to the Minister of the
Borrower responsible for the interior. In addition to National
administrative staff consisting of engineers (2), accountants (2),
draftemen (2), and secretarles (2), the ýDirector of the Project
will be-assisted by six experts (the Project leader-administrator,
a systems analyst, a municipal management expert, a municipal
engineer, a mechanic rand a local building materials expert). The
Directr- of the Project vill have the rank of National Director.
The tasks of the Project Unit will be to assist the Borrower, the
District services and the regional governaental services respon-
sible for carrying out the Pröject. Specifically, the Project Unit
Will: (a) plan, coordinate and supervise the carrying out of the
Project; (b) manage the legal and financial aspects of the Project
(tontracts, requests for disbursements); and (cc) monitor the
carrying out of the Project.
CY.-
1kl


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Land Management Agency (CAFOBA)
As part of the strengthening of institutions in the shelter
sector, a Land Management? Agency would be set up to manage all
state owned land in the urbanization perimeter of the District
belonging to the State or to communities. The National Directorat1
of Taxes will have prime responsibility for the establishmert
of the Land Management Agency, which will be carried out ia
phases during Project execution, as follows:
(a) First Phase (to be completed by June 30, 1980): The
National Directorate of Taxes would establish a Land
Registry withj the responsibilities set forth in Article
4 of Arr8t6 No. 1771/MFC-DNI of May 3, 1979 as such
text may be amended. During this period the National
Directorate of Urbanism and Construction- will complete
and publish by January 1, 1980 an outline structural
plan for the development of Bamako, which will form the
basis of land policy within the District and will
establish preliminary guidelines for land use.
(b) Second Phase (to be completed by June 30,1981): The
Land Registry will extend the procedures developed in
the First Phase to all land included in the urbanization
perimeter of the district, while the Directorate of
Urbanization and Construction will conduct the Invest-
ment Programming Study under the Project and the
National Directorate of Taxes will establish the admi-
nistrative procedures and decrees for the establishment
of CAFOBA.
(c) Third Phase (to be completed by June 30, 1982): estab-
lishment of CAFOBA as an autonomous agency under the
technical tutelage of the Ministry responsible for
Finance.
The phased establishment of CAFOBA will be monitored and
assisted by the Project Unit.
i k


﻿-24-
SCHEDULE 6
Cost Recovery
A. Cost Recovery
1.   The following principles of cost recovery are to be applied
for the various elements of the Project:
(a) those costs which are ordinarily recovered by public
authorit fes through user charges or tariffs will be
similarly recovered (e.g. primary infrastructure for
water, electricity, markets);
(b)  costs of urban services provided by the District will be
recovered via special taxes (e.g. garbage collection,
reet cleaning, water from standpipes);
(    all site-development related costs comprising on-site
infrastructure, refinancing   of  construction, design,
engineering and supervision will be borne directly by
beneficiaries.
2.  Cost recovery sources from components of the Project are
as follows:
Project component                   Method of Recovery
(a) Recovered
1.   Land                           Repayments
2.   On-site infrastructure         Repayments
3.   Off-site infrastructure        Electricity and water tariffs
4.   Primary schools                Scholastic Fund
5.   Construction refinancing       Repayments
6.   Garbage collection             New garbage collection tax
7.   Clearing of drainage ditches   Tax (de voirie)
8.   Standpipes                     Tax (de voirie)
9.   Retail markets                 Stall rentals
10. Artisan credit                  Repayment
11. Mopti garbage collection        Mudicipal taxes
12.  Gao water supply               Water tariff
13. Kayes water supply              Water tariff
14. Land Management Agency          Revenue from land development


﻿- 25 -
(b) Not recovered; Technical Assistance, studies
15. Aerial photo survey             Not recovered
16. Technical assistance,           Not recovered
Project Unit
17. Regional Directorate of Taxes Not recovered
18. Studies                         Not recovered
(c) Not recovered
19. Health facilities               Not recovered
20. Public Lavatories               Not recovered
21. Drainage outlets                Not recovered
22. Building and equipment,         Not recovered
Technical Directorate
23. Development of local            Not recovered
building materials
3.   Lot charges in the sites and services area would be dif-
ferentiated to take into account location, lot accessibility,
size of lot and the form of tenure (freehold and rental-purchase)-
applicable to different lots. Four price categories will be
distinguished: (i) "A" lots (320 m2) and A 1 (160 m2), one-
half of A are the smallest and will be leased at a price somewhat
(about 10%) below cost; (ii) "B" lots (374 m2) will be leased at
slightly above (about 15%) cost; and "C" lots (500 m2) will be
sold freehold at fair market value. The net sales proceeds of the
larger lots would be used to reduce the prices of the smallest
lots, which would be available to the lowest income groups of the
target population.
4.   A downpayment of 10% of the total price would be required
for new lots subject to rental-purchases. Payment of the down-
payment would also entitle the beneficiary to refinancing for
construction, the amount of which would vary according to the
beneficiary's ability to pay the combined monthly payments for the
lot and for such refinancing, but which would, in-any event, be
limited to a ceiling of MF165,000. No downpayments would be
required in upgrading areas where lots will be acquired under
rental-purchases; beneficiaries of such lots may also obtain
refinancing for construction up to MF55,000. The balance for
both lot and building materials would be repaid through monthly
installments at 12% per annum over a maximum of 20 years.


﻿-26-
5.   Contracts for rental-purchases will provide for resiliation
in the case of non-payment by beneficiaries beyond three months.
6.   Recovery of the costs of retail markets will be through stall
fees for the covered stalls in the market place, and rents for the
shops and artisans lots alongside the market. Refinancing for
artisans for construction of workshops on the 50 artisans lots
located beside the markets would be made available under the
Project up to a maximum of MF275,000 per lot. Refinancing of
up, to MF50,000 would be available to 400 artisans to finance
purchases of materials or small equipment and tools. Terms of
such refinancing would be at 12% interest, repayable over ten
years for construction loans, and over three years for materials
and tools.
7.   Amounts stipulated in paragraph 6 above are subject to
revision each year by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association in order to reflect changes in the cost of living.
B. Municipal Taxes
8.   The costs of the improvements to municipal services will be
recovered through the introduction of maintenance taxes (voirie
and garbage collection taxes assessed on rental values of proper-
ties) on a city-wide basis. The new taxes will be collected
beginning in 1981 and will be set at rates sufficient to cover the
costs of the services rendered, including depreciation of equip-
mente


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day, of
197F                         S     T
FOR SECRETARY


