OFICIALS       CREDIT NUMBER 943 MLI
_DOCUlfENTS
Project Agreemént
(Urban Development Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DISTRICT OF BAMAKO
and
MUNICIPALITY OF MOPTI
j                     Dited ~,1o<          ~7            ,1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 943 MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1979, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter  called  the
Association) and the DISTRICT OF BAMAKO (hereinafter called the
District) and the MUNICIPALITY OF MOPTI (hereinafter called
Mopti).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Mali (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the District and Mopti agree to undertake such
respective obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS by Financing Agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and the District and Mopti respectively, portions of
the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to the District and to
Mopti on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the District and Mopti, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The District shall carry out Parts A, B,
and C (1) of the Project, and Mopti shall carry out Part D (1) of


﻿-2-
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Developmo,t Credit
Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, economic and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, the District
shall establish a Housing Directorate and reorganize its Technical
Directorate, each headed by qualified and experienced Directors,
as described in Schedules"1 and 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The District shall employ such consultants and
other experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The District and Mopti undertake to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be-financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the District and Mopti to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
District and Mopti shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit relent and made available to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The District and Mopti shall furnish to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts A, B, C, D (1) and G of the Project, and. any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The District and Mopti: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of their
respective parts of the Project (including their costs and the


﻿-3-
benefits to be derived from them), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Parts A, B, C, D (1) and G of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning such parts of the Project,
their costs and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from them, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.06. The District and Mopti shall duly perform all
their obligations under the Financing Agreements. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the District and Mopti shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving either of such
Financing Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) The District and Mopti shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association
with regard to the progress of their respective parts of the Proj-.
ect, the performance of their respective obligations under this
Agreement and under their Financing Agreements, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The District and Mopti shall promptly inform the Aoso-
ciation of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the.
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the District or by
Mopti of their obligations under this Agreement and under the
Financing Agreements.
Section 2.08. The reorganization of the District's Technical
Directorate included in Part B (4) of the Project shall be car-
ried out with the assistance of the municipal engineer and super-
vising mechanic employed pursuant to Section 2.02 above, shall
conform to the guidelines set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment and shall be completed by June 30, 1980.
Section 2.09. The District and Mopti shall take such steps as
are necessary and useful on its part to recover the costs of Parts
A (1) and (4), B (1) and (2), C (1), and D (1) of the Project
in the manner and to the extent provided for in Schedule 6 to the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿Section 2.10. The Housing Directorate of the District shall
be strengthened under Part B (4) of the Project as provided in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the District shall ensure that
such Directorate carry out the responsibilities therein set
forth.
Section 2.11. The District shall establish and maintain a
special depreciation account for the purposes of financing the
replacement of vehicles and equipment.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The District and Mopti shall maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices their operations and
financial condition relating to the Project and shall ensure that:
(i) all accounts with respect to the Project be kept separate from
their other accounts; and (ii) that there be retained, until one
year after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures for the
Project on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures, and
shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine such records.
(b) The District and Mopti shall furnish to the Project
Unit promptly following the close of each year copies of the
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association, the District and Mopti thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-5-
(i) the date on which the Development. Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the District and Mopti of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For.the District:
District de Bamako
Avenue de la Libertf
Bamako
R6publique du Mali
Cable address:
District de Bamako
For Mopti:
Mairie de Mopti
Mopti
Rfpubique du Mali
Cable address:
Mairie de Mopti
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the District or Mopti may be taken or
executed by the Governor of the District and the Mayor of Mopti,
as the case may be, or such other person or persons as they shall
designate in writing, and the District and Mopti shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their, representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-7-
of Columbia, United States of Aierica, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
DISTRICT OF BAMAKO
By
Authorized Representative
MUNICIPALITY OF MOPTI
By /s               auo
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
The Housing Directorate
1.   The Housing Directorate of the District will be strengthened
and staffed with a manager, accounting staff (7), collectors (4)
and other personnel to enable it to carry out its tasks under the
Project. It will have a separate accounting system for resources
and expenditures relating to the Project. The Housing Directorate
will be responsible for: (a) compiling and maintaining the indi-
vidual files on applicants for and beneficiaries of lots in the
upgraded and sites and services areas, as well as shopkeepers and
artisans of the market facilities; (b) preselection of beneficia-
ries on the basis of eligibility criteria set forth in paragraph 3
below; (c) administration of the lot allocation and the con-
struction refinancement programs; and (d) collection, with the
help of the Revenue Collection Service, of lot charges and con-
struction refinancement repayments of the sites and services and
upgrading components as well as of the artisans credit component.
2.   Lots will be allocated by a lottery from a list of eligible
beneficiaries and the Directorate will provide refinancing and
allocat6 lots accordingly under the supervision of the Lot Allo-
cation Committee to which it shall be responsible for providing
necessary data. The Directorate will cooperate with the Land
Registry on matters relating to the establishment of land titles
and recognition of occupation rights, which the Housing Direc-
torate will transfer to beneficiaries under rental-purchase
contracts at the time of signature of the contracts. The financial
surpluses of the Housing Directorate of the District will be paid
into a special account, the use of which will be reviewed yearly
by the Borrower, the District and the Association.
3.   For the sites and services area, the eligibility criteria
are that any applicant for lots A, A (1), and B:
(a) be a head of household residing in the city;
(b) not own or occupy, or hold any title, occupancy permit
or letter of allocation, for any other lot in the
urbanization perimeter of;
(c) bind himself to live on the lot; and
(d) earn no less than HF 15,000 and no more than HF 55,000
(in 1979 prices), such income levels to be reviewed
annually.


﻿-9-
4.   C lots Will be sold freehold at fairmarket value.
5.   Procedures for lot allocations and for refinancing of Mon-
stri Ction undei the Project shall include:
(a) publicity to inform the public concerning eligibility
riteria and of the procedures for obtaining lots and
refinancement for constution;
(b) setting up of preliminary individual files, which
will be completed at the beginning of Project execution;
(c)  checking eligibility of candidates; and
(d) conducting of a lottery to determine winners among those
eligible.
Such lottery will be supervised by the Lot Allocation Committee.
K7


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Technical Directorate
The Technical Directorate (Voirie) will be reorganized
and strengthened, with suitable vehicle-maintenance facilities,
operating procedures and training programs for technical staff.
The Directorate will be organized into three principal sections:
(a) studies, planning and control;
(b) operations, subdivided into: (i) garbage collection
and cleaning of public areas; (ii) sanitation; (iii)
street maintenance; and (iv) building maintenance;
and
(c) maintenance and workshops, subdivided into: (i) vehicle
maintenance; (ii) general mechanical maintenance;
and (iii) woodwork.
The Directorate will be responsible for operational and
maintenance activities.
The reorganization, which would be carried out with the
assistance of the municipal engineer and supervising mechanic
employed under thh Project, would take place during the first year
of project execution in order that the new organization and
facilities be operating effectively before delivery of new equip-
ment for garbage collection and clearing of drainage ditches,
planned to take place at the end of 1980.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
197.
FOR SECRETARY


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
ate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day'of    AP ,
197.
FOR SECRETARY
1


