Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
May 9, 2011 
Report No.:  AB6405 
 
Operation Name 
Fiscal Risk Management Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Country 
Colombia 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);Public 
administration- Finance (40%);Non-compulsory health 
finance (20%) 
Operation ID 
P123267 
Lending Instrument 
Development Policy Lending 
Borrower(s) 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
Public Credit and Treasury,  
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
Carrera 8A No. 6-64 
Bogota, Colombia 
Tel: (57-1) 381-1700  Fax: (57-1) 350-9331 
garce@minhacienda.gov.co
Date PID Prepared 
May 9, 2011 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
June 8, 2011 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 21, 2011 
Corporate Review Decision 
Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to 
proceed with the preparation of the operation.
 
I. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
This document describes a First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and Growth Resilience 
Development Policy Loan for US$300 million to the Republic of Colombia.
 
The DPL is the 
first of two operations supporting the fiscal management program of the Government of 
Colombia in the context of increased commodities production (oil and mining), long term public 
sector liabilities, and rising fiscal risks associated with natural hazards. 
 
The reforms and policy measures supported by the operation are considered highly 
relevant and comprehensive.
 
The DPL operation has three main objectives: (a) improved 
budget predictability and stability, (b) improved liabilities management, and (c) improved 
disaster risk financing.  The introduction of a fiscal rule, the reform of the royalties system, and a 
tax reform will improve budget predictability and stability and are essential for the sound fiscal 
and macroeconomic management of an economy which is increasingly relying on commodities.  
A
law that reforms the health insurance system and related administrative measures serve to 
improve the management of social security liabilities.  A final set of measures are expected to 
improve the management of disaster risk financing.  In the short term, the Government is 
Page  2
implementing an effective mechanism for managing post-disaster reconstruction projects.  In the 
medium-term, it will develop a national disaster financing strategy. 
 
II. Proposed 
Objective(s) 
The fiscal management program supported by this operation is expected to enhance fiscal 
sustainability and strengthen economic growth resilience. 
 
III. Preliminary 
Description 
 
The Government of Colombia has presented to Congress a fiscal rule.  
The fiscal rule aims 
to ensure fiscal discipline, enhance counter-cyclical fiscal policy, and improve the management 
of commodity revenues.  The government is targeting a central government structural deficit of 
2.0 percent of GDP by 2015 with a declining deficit path planned for the 2011-14 transition 
period.  The structural deficit, in turn, equals the overall deficit adjusted for economic, 
commodity cycles and extraordinary items.  Counter-cyclical fiscal stimulus is permitted if the 
projected growth rate falls at least two percentage points below the long-term growth rate and is 
below its (potential) full employment level.  The proposed bill also sets up a Macroeconomic and 
Fiscal Savings and Stabilization mechanism to reduce the budgetary and macroeconomic impact 
of commodity cycles.  Exemption clauses apply such that the government can temporarily 
deviate from the rule in exceptional circumstances.  Finally, a technical expert committee will be 
set up to define key variables, including the structural balance, commodity and economic cycles, 
potential and long-term output.   
The Government of Colombia has presented to Congress a constitutional amendment that 
changes the existing regime for royalties.
 The objective of the reform is to promote 
macroeconomic stability, improve equity, enhance efficiency and improve the management of 
royalties revenues.  The reform defines the 
General Royalties System
.
Royalty revenues will be 
diverted to a number of different purposes, including: the replenishment of the Subnational 
Pension Fund (FONPET), the financing of science and technology projects, and the diversion of 
cyclical revenues into a subnational Savings and Stabilization Fund.  Moreover, a Regional 
Development Fund (to finance regional projects) and a Regional Compensation Fund (for poor 
areas) will also be established.  
Congress has approved Law 1430 dated December 29, 2010, and the Government has 
issued Presidential Decree 4825 dated December 29, 2010, which reform the tax code.  
The 
tax reform raises the revenue-to-GDP ratio and improves the efficiency of the tax system.  The 
major elements of the tax reform include: (a) the elimination of the tax credit for investment in 
fixed assets of firms, (b) closing of loopholes of the financial transactions tax, (c) a phase-out of 
the financial transaction tax,  (d) an increase in the base and rate of the wealth tax, and (e) a 
reduction of the energy surcharge. 
 
Congress has approved Law 1438 dated January 19, 2011, which reforms the health 
insurance system.
 
The Law provides a clear policy framework based on a primary health care 
approach with a renewed emphasis on health promotion and prevention, fostering inter-sectoral 
activities and strengthening of the first level of care services.  It also establishes principles and 
guidelines for the organization and strategic interventions of community health care teams to 
identify household and individual risk factors and foster the demand for key services with a high 
Page  3
positive impact on public health.  Cost savings are expected given that preventive activities are 
more cost-effective than curative ones.  A new peer reviewing mechanism is expected to 
improve the approval process of medical goods and services provided outside the health benefit 
package.
 
This would foster sound scientific decisions for the approval process of health goods 
and services, including expensive medicines, provided outside the health care package. 
 
The Ministry of Social Protection has issued: (i) Resolution 4377 of 2010 (which modifies 
Resolution 3099 of 2008); and (ii) Resolution 1020 of 2011 (which modifies Resolution 5229 
of 2010), which establish a ceiling for the reimbursement of 47 pharmaceuticals not covered 
by the mandatory benefit package of the Contributory Regime.
 
These measures are expected 
to improve the rational use of pharmaceuticals and contain health costs outside the mandatory 
benefit package of the contributive regime.
 
Resolution 4377 establishes a policy of ceilings for 
reimbursement by FOSYGA for medicines not covered by the mandatory benefit package.  It 
also seeks to enforce national regulations and information systems for pharmaceuticals financed 
by FOSYGA.  Resolution 1020 of 2011, in turn, sets the specific reimbursement rate ceilings for 
47 pharmaceuticals, including some used in high-cost treatments.
 
The Government of Colombia has, through Executive Decree No. 4819 of the President, 
created an Adaptation Fund under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance and Public 
Credit.
 
The objective of the Fund is to finance reconstruction activities in the geographical 
areas recently affected by heavy rains.  The Fund will be attached to the Ministry of Finance, but 
will have budget and financial autonomy.  It will identify, structure and execute a range of 
different infrastructure projects in the areas of transport, telecommunications, agriculture, public 
services, housing, education, health, aqueducts, sewerage, drainage, dams, dikes, and strategic 
zones that were affected by flooding.  The Fund will be financed through the sale of Government 
assets.
 
The operation is a programmatic series of two Development Policy Loans designed to 
support the Government of Colombia뭩 fiscal management program. 
 The first loan is 
supports measures to implement legislative changes to strengthen the fiscal framework.  Building 
on this, the second loan will support the implementing regulation of these legislative reforms.  In 
the area of disaster risk financing management, DPL I is designed to support post-disaster 
reconstruction efforts, whereas DPL II includes actions to strengthen ex-ante disaster risk 
financing management.  The Bank is supporting the Government fiscal management program 
through a programmatic package of  financial, knowledge and convening services. 
 
IV. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Impacts  
The Government actions, supported in this DPL, are expected to have a positive poverty 
and social impact.
 
The anticipated impact of each of the supported reforms is discussed below, 
in turn. 

The fiscal rule contributes to improved fiscal performance and macroeconomic 
stability, which is an important foundation for sustained economic growth and poverty 
Page  4
reduction.  
Moreover, the fiscal rule strengthens the capacity of the Government to pursue 
counter-cyclical fiscal policy, including the implementation of social programs that can 
protect the poor and vulnerable in times of growth decelerations. 
 

The royalties reform results in a more equitable distribution of fiscal revenues from 
mineral exploitation across municipalities and departments.  
An important objective of 
the reform is to improve the poverty and developmental impact of royalties revenues.  
Moreover, the proposed Regional Compensation Fund aims to devote additional resources to 
the most impoverished areas.
 

The tax reform is expected to have a small positive impact on low income households. 
 
The reform tends to affect mainly high-income individuals and private sector firms.  The 
gradual elimination of the financial transaction tax will have a positive impact on the low 
income households who use the banking system.  
 

The poor are also expected to benefit from an increased focus on community and 
primary health care.
 
There is ample evidence that an emphasis on primary health care, 
health promotion and prevention at the community level are suitable to deal with the bulk of 
the burden of disease of the poor.
 

The poor are expected to benefit from the effective disaster risk management efforts, 
including the post-disaster construction activities.  
Natural disasters have a 
disproportionate impact on the poor. The poor population is more likely to be affected and 
less resilient to disasters occurrence.  
 
Environment Aspects  
The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment.
 
Following OP 8.60, the operation was reviewed for any potential effects relating to the 
environment, forest, and natural resources.  As this operation focuses on implementing fiscal 
reforms and fiscal risk management it is not expected to have any significant impact on the 
environment. 
 
V. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
300
Borrower/Recipient 0
Others (specify) 
Total 300
VI. Contact 
point 
World Bank 
 
Contact: Lars Christian Moller 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 5280+254 / 57-1-326-3600 - 254 
Page  5
Email: 
lmoller@worldbank.org
Location: Bogota, Colombia (IBRD) 
 
Borrower 
Contact: German 
Arce 
Zapata 
Title: 
 
General Director of Public Credit and the National Treasury 
Tel: 
 
+57 1 381 2156 
Email:  
garce@minhacienda.gov.co
VII. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
