                      PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                      July 4, 2011
                                                                              Report No.: AB6609
                                               (The report # is automatically generated by IDU and should not be changed)


Operation Name                      First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and Growth
                                    Resilience Development Policy Loan
Region                              LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Country                             Colombia
Sector                              General public administration sector (40%);Public
                                    administration- Finance (40%);Non-compulsory health
                                    finance (20%)
Operation ID                        P123267
Lending Instrument                  Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                         MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
Implementing Agency                 MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
                                    Public Credit and Treasury,
                                    Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
                                    Carrera 8A No. 6-64
                                    Bogotá, Colombia
                                    Tel: (57-1) 381-1700 Fax: (57-1) 350-9331
                                    garce@minhacienda.gov.co
Date PID Prepared                   July 4, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal         June 8, 2011
Estimated Date of Board             July 21, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision           Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                    proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.     Country and Sector Background

The Government of Colombia has requested a First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability
and Growth Resilience Development Policy Loan for US$300 million. The DPL is the first of
a series of two operations supporting the fiscal management program of the Government of
Colombia in the context of increased commodities production (oil and mining), mounting long
term social sector liabilities, and rising fiscal risks associated with natural hazards. The request
underscores the Government’s continued interest in engaging with the World Bank to support its
efforts in improving fiscal management.

The fiscal management program of the Santos Administration represents a substantial
effort in addressing Colombia’s fiscal challenges and merits the support of the Bank. This
document discusses the fiscal challenges that Colombia is facing to manage the commodity
boom, social security liabilities and the risks associated with natural hazards. These challenges,
which are mainly structural in nature, have built up in recent decades. As the Santos
Administration came to office in August 2010, it outlined a fiscal reform program. Some
challenges will inevitably remain even after successful reform implementation due to political
economy constraints. Nonetheless the proposed fiscal reforms represent substantial progress in
tackling these challenges.

Colombia’s Fiscal Challenges

The fiscal management program, which forms a core part of the Santos Administration’s
reform agenda, aims to tackle the country’s major fiscal challenges. Colombia has made
good progress on the fiscal front over the past decade, as illustrated by the decline in public debt,
but important challenges remain. These challenges can be divided into three main areas: (a)
budget predictability and stability, (b) management of social security liabilities, and (c) disaster
risk financing. Each of these challenges are discussed briefly below.

Budget predictability and stability. Increased economic and fiscal reliance on commodities
production (oil, coal, gas and metals) raises macro-fiscal policy concerns at both national and
subnational levels, including budget volatility, currency appreciation, and other related Dutch
Disease effects. The associated rise in royalties payments also raises policy questions of how
best to transform natural resources wealth into development progress that could benefit a broader
segment of the population.

Management of social security liabilities. The commodity bonanza is likely to increase
popular demand for social spending. Existing social security obligations, however, already
constitute substantial long-term fiscal challenges for Colombia. Health care costs have risen
owing to a strong expansion in subsidized coverage, rapid growth of services provided outside
the Mandatory Benefit Package, and a policy to harmonize the Mandatory Benefit Package for
all individuals. Meanwhile, pressures on the pension system arise from demographic change,
migration of members from the defined contribution to the defined benefit system, and low
coverage owing to high labor informality.

Disaster risk financing. A final set of challenges relate to the economic and fiscal costs of
natural hazards, which are on the rise. The recent La Niña emergency clearly illustrate the fiscal
risks involved owing to the losses to public assets, including infrastructure, and the need to
compensate the vulnerable population.

II.    Operation Objectives

The fiscal management program is expected to enhance fiscal sustainability and strengthen
economic growth resilience. As the Debt Sustainability Analysis (Section II and Annex 4)
shows, the medium-term public debt trajectory is declining in the baseline scenario and robust to
most exogenous shocks. This scenario builds in the planned fiscal adjustment arising from the
implementation of the fiscal rule with its associated deficit target for 2014. In addition, the
improved management of commodities revenue through stabilization funds is expected to reduce
economywide growth volatility and increase fiscal savings thereby providing a more solid
foundation for higher investment and economic growth.
The proposed operation supports the objectives of Colombia’s New National Development
Plan. The prior actions of this development policy loan support pillar (i) of the Plan, as well as
cross-cutting theme (b) of disaster risk management. The fiscal management program enhances
budget stability and predictability and facilitates fiscal consolidation, which in turn, supports
economic growth. The Plan makes explicit references to the Government’s fiscal management
program, supported in this operation, in the Chapter on macroeconomic consistency. Moreover,
a separate chapter is devoted exclusively to the cross-cutting theme of environmental
sustainability and risk prevention, which link with the policy actions in the area of disaster risk
financing.

The new Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY12-16 is also aligned with the key
themes of the National Development Plan.1 The CPS has three themes: (1) Expanding
Opportunities for Social Prosperity, (2) Sustainable Growth with Enhanced Climate Resilience,
and, (3) Inclusive Growth with Enhanced Productivity. Each theme supports three long term
outcomes. The DPL operation supports the long-term outcome of improved fiscal, financial, and
social risk management under the ‘Inclusive Growth with Enhanced Productivity’ theme.

The Borrower has presented to Congress, for approval thereby, the Fiscal Rule Bill of Law.
The new fiscal rule aims to ensure fiscal discipline, facilitate a counter-cyclical fiscal policy, and
improve the management of commodity revenues. The initiative can be summarized as follows:
The government is targeting a central government structural deficit of 1.0 percent of GDP by
2022, including interim targets of 2.3 percent of GDP in 2014 and 1.9 percent of GDP in 2018.
The structural deficit, in turn, equals the overall deficit adjusted for economic, commodity cycles
and extraordinary items. Counter-cyclical fiscal stimulus is permitted if the projected growth
rate falls at least two percentage points below the long-term growth rate. The bill also sets up a
Macroeconomic and Fiscal Savings and Stabilization Fund to reduce the budgetary and
macroeconomic impact of commodity cycles. Exemption clauses apply such that the
Government can temporarily deviate from the rule in exceptional circumstances. Finally, an
independent consultative technical committee will be established. These elements are discussed
in more detail below.

The Borrower has: (i) promulgated Law No. 1430, dated December 29, 2010 which, inter
alia, reduced tax exemptions, closed tax loopholes and phased-out the Borrower’s financial
transaction tax; and (ii) issued Presidential Decree No. 4825, dated December 29, 2010
which, inter alia, increased the rate and the base of the wealth tax. The tax reform raises the
revenue-to-GDP ratio and improves the efficiency of the tax system. The major elements of the
tax reform include: (a) the elimination of the tax credit for investment in fixed assets of firms, (b)
closing of loopholes of the financial transactions tax, (c) a phase-out of the financial transaction
tax, (d) an increase in the base and rate of the wealth tax, and (e) a reduction of the energy
surcharge.

The Borrower has promulgated Law No. 1438 dated January 19, 2011 which inter alia
strengthened primary health care and established the criteria for updating the Mandatory
Benefit Package. Law 1438 of January, 19, 2011, provides a clear policy framework based on a
primary health care approach emphasizing health promotion and prevention, fostering inter-
1
    The CPS is scheduled to be presented to the Board on July 21, 2011.
sectoral activities and strengthening of the first level of care services. Law 1438 also established
principles and guidelines for the organization and strategic interventions of community health
care teams to identify household and individual risk factors and foster the demand for key
services with a high positive impact on public health. Improved medium and long term planning
can be achieved when individuals with factor risks and with early diagnosis of clinical conditions
can be treated in a timely fashion.

The Ministry of Social Protection has issued Resolution 4377-2010 which seeks to enforce
existing pharmaceutical policies and regulations. This resolution also aims to contain costs by
establishing a reimbursement system that allows more predictability in the reimbursement rates
for selected high-cost medicines. This resolution established reimbursement price ceilings as a
mechanism introducing a degree of predictability for health care costs and minimizing perverse
incentives for irrational use of pharmaceuticals not covered by the Mandatory Benefit Package of
the contributive regime. It also seeks to strengthen the adherence to international and national
pharmaceutical policy safety and quality standards and strengthens the enforcement of
regulations and information systems set by the Ministry of Social Protection and the Colombian
National Food and Drug Institute (Instituto Nacional de Vigilancia de Medicamentos y Alimentos
– INVIMA).

The Ministry of Social Protection has issued Resolution 1020-2011 which provides the
specific pharmaceutical reimbursement rate ceilings for a selected group of
pharmaceuticals. This resolution defines the specific reimbursement price ceilings for each of
the pharmaceutical active ingredients from a list of forty-seven items not covered by the
Mandatory Benefit Package. These ceilings are to be used as maximum reimbursement rates to
health plans and providers by the Solidarity and Guarantee Fund within the Ministry of Social
Protection (FOSYGA).

The Ministry of Social Protection has issued Resolution 1083-2011 which complements the
above measures by creating a mechanism to monitor and analyze reimbursements for
goods and services not covered by the Mandatory Benefit Package of Contributory Regime.
The resolution established a committee with the purpose of assessing trends in reimbursements
and providing advice and recommendations to the Minister on actions and interventions to
improve guidelines, enforcement and fine-tuning of regulations. The committee will take into
account not only the need for cost containment, but also the objectives of ensuring equitable
access and efficient use of resources. The committee meets on a monthly basis and is composed
of the following officials of the Ministry of Social Protection: Vice Minister of Health, Technical
Vice Minister, Finance Director, Director of Health Care Management and the Chief counsel.

The operation is a programmatic series of two Development Policy Loans designed to
support the Government of Colombia’s fiscal management program. The first loan is
designed to support the government measures to implement the relevant and necessary legislative
changes to strengthen the fiscal framework. Building on this, the second loan will support the
implementing regulation of these legislative reforms.
III.   Rationale for Bank Involvement

The Bank is committed to a long-term engagement in support of the Government’s fiscal
management program. The proposed operation is fully consistent with the Bank’s new
business model in Colombia, which emphasizes a strategic and integrated client engagement in
support of selected development outcomes through three main lines of business, including
financial, knowledge and convening services. Specifically, Bank support to the fiscal
management program in multiple sectors contributes to ‘improved fiscal, financial and social risk
management’ within the ‘inclusive growth with enhanced productivity’ theme of the FY12-16
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS).

On the basis of a strong electoral mandate and congressional majority, the Santos
Administration has launched an ambitious reform program. To consolidate the fiscal stance
and manage windfalls from commodities production, Congress has approved a new fiscal rule, a
reform of the royalties system, and a proposal to make fiscal sustainability a Constitutional
criterion. To enhance revenues and improve competitiveness, tax exemptions were reduced,
loopholes closed, and import tariffs lowered. Legislation has been passed to reduce informality
and encourage youth employment. A new legal framework is being introduced to improve the
performance of the health system, including the enactment of an ordinary Health Law in 2011.
Finally, to compensate victims who have been harmed by actions occurring as a result of
conflict, a Law (Ley de Victimas) is pending President Santos' approval.

Economic growth in recent years has been accompanied by poverty reduction. Between
2002 and 2009 poverty fell from 53.7 to 45.5 percent, while the proportion of the population that
could not satisfy basic nutritional needs (the extreme poor) declined from 19.7 to 16.4 percent
(Table 3 refers). While this is a positive development, Colombia’s progress in reducing poverty
given its economic performance since 2002 falls below that of regional peers. Moreover,
poverty levels remain relatively high given the country’s income per capita. In part, this is
explained by an unequal distribution of income, as reflected by the Gini coefficient, which is
among the ten highest in the world. Food prices are also relatively higher in Colombia, as a
result of high cost of transport related to limited competition in the transport sector and lack of
alternatives to road transport given a difficult topology.

Colombia’s macroeconomic policy framework is deemed adequate. Medium-term fiscal
policy remains prudent, in part as a result of policy reforms supported by this operation, with
proposed fiscal adjustments starting from 2012. Monetary and exchange rate policies are also
supportive of macroeconomic and financial stability.
IMF relations: A two-year Flexible Credit Line (FCL) arrangement for 500 percent of quota
(US$6.2 billion) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was approved in May 2011. The
Bank’s country team has been collaborating very closely with the IMF. This cooperation
includes the review of macroeconomic developments, including fiscal projections and the
preparation of debt sustainability analysis. The proposed DPL program is consistent with IMF
policy advice. The IMF Fiscal Affairs Department advised the Government of Colombia in the
process of preparing the fiscal rule. The two institutions have also been collaborating closely in
other areas, including revenue administration improvement and public financial management
(including debt management).

IV.    Tentative financing

 Source:                                                                      ($m.)
 Borrower                                                                        0
 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                         300
 Borrower/Recipient                                                              0
 Others (specify)
                                                                      Total   300


V.     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) and the National Planning
Department (DNP) are responsible for coordinating actions among the concerned agencies.
The Department for Public Credit within the MHCP will collect the necessary data to assess the
implementation progress for which the MHCP is responsible and report it to the Bank.
Similarly, the Sub-directorate of Public Credit within the DNP will collect the information
necessary related to the implementation progress for which the Ministry of Social Protection is
responsible and report it to the Bank.

VI.    Risks and Risk Mitigation

The DPL operation is subject to risks related to the external economic environment and
reform program implementation. Despite solid fundamentals, Colombia’s near-term
macroeconomic outlook could be adversely affected if commodity prices fall, external financing
conditions deteriorate or the global recovery falters. There are also risks of policy slippages
related to the implementation of the fiscal management program. On the other hand, the political
economy context is very favorable given the high popularity ratings of President Santos whose
national unity coalition control about 80 percent of the seats in Congress. Moreover, reforms are
being implemented within the first period of the Administration’s four-year term, where the
political will to make difficult decisions may be relatively high. This increases the probability
that the Government will be able to take the reform agenda successfully forward. In light hereof,
the risk classification is considered low.

VII.   Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts

The Government actions, supported in this DPL, are expected to have a positive poverty
and social impact. Although this impact has not been assessed formally through Bank
analytical work, such as a Poverty and Social Impact analysis, an analysis of the reforms
supported indicate an expected positive impact. The anticipated impact of each of the supported
reforms is discussed below.
The fiscal rule contributes to improved fiscal performance and macroeconomic stability,
which are important foundations for sustained economic growth and poverty reduction.
Moreover, the fiscal rule strengthens the capacity of the Government to pursue counter-cyclical
fiscal policy, including the implementation of social programs that can protect the poor and
vulnerable in times of growth decelerations. The proposed stabilization fund is expected to
smoothen the fiscal impact of the commodity cycle, which potentially reduces the need for
government to cut public spending (including social and poverty programs) in times of low
commodity revenues. There are no indications in the Economic and Fiscal Strategy for 2010-14
that the Government will cut social programs to meet the 2014 fiscal deficit target.

The tax reform is expected to have a small positive impact on low income households. The
reform tends to affect mainly high-income individuals and private sector firms. The elimination
of the capital investment tax credit of firms, the reduction of the energy surcharge of firms and
the closing of financial transaction loopholes are not expected to have any direct impact the poor.
The gradual elimination of the financial transaction tax will have a positive impact on the low
income households who use the banking system. The increased base and higher rate of the
wealth tax will not directly negatively affect the poor. On the contrary, proceeds from this tax
will be used to finance humanitarian efforts in the wake of the heavy rains, which will mainly
benefit the poor.

The poor are also expected to benefit from an increased focus on community and primary
health care, which is promoted in the ordinary health law. There is ample evidence that an
emphasis on primary health care, health promotion and prevention at the community level are
suitable to deal with the bulk of the burden of disease of the poor. Shifting the emphasis of
health system from specialized and medium-high complexity diagnostic and therapeutic services
towards a model better suited to address the actual needs of the poor and other vulnerable
populations improves equity in access to key social services increasing human capital investment
and ultimately reducing poverty. There is a vast literature on how investments in health fostered
within the framework of primary health care approaches can have an impact on individual and
households income and enhance other types of public sector investments (i.e. education).

Furthermore, actions to contain costs of the contributive regime will benefit the poor
within the subsidized regime by increasing the fiscal space within the health insurance
system. The poor form part either of the subsidized regime or do not have coverage. The
contributive regime, meanwhile, is mainly for formal sector workers, who pay for their own
health care and make solidarity contributions towards the subsidized regime. Rising costs in the
contributive regime endanger the ability of this regime to make solidarity payments. Measures
that contain costs (including of pharmaceuticals) in the contributive regime therefore create more
fiscal space within this regime to the benefit of those covered by the subsidized regime,
including the poor.

The poor are expected to benefit from the effective ex-ante risk management efforts.
Natural disasters have a disproportionate impact on the poor. Ninety-nine percent of people
affected by the close to 6,000 large scale natural disasters worldwide registered between 1970
and 2002 were people in developing countries. Disaster risk management is therefore essential
for consolidating poverty reduction. The poor population is more likely to be affected and less
resilient to disasters occurrence. The poorer segments of the population often live in the most
vulnerable locations and live in inadequately constructed housing. In addition, the poor have
limited labor skills, fewer assets, and little or no savings. They have little opportunity for risk
diversification and restricted access to credit. Because of this, they are less able to cushion the
impact on consumption of disruptions to income.


Environment Aspects

The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant effects on the environment.
Following OP 8.60, the operation was reviewed for any potential effects relating to the
environment, forest, and natural resources. As this operation focuses on implementing a fiscal
management program it is not expected to have any impact on the environment.

VIII. Contact point
World Bank
Contact: Lars Christian Moller
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5280+254 / 57-1-326-3600
Fax:
Email: lmoller@worldbank.org
Location: Bogota, Colombia (IBRD)

Borrower
Contact:       German Arce Zapata
Title:         General Director of Public Credit and the National Treasury
Tel:           +57 1 381 2156
Email:         garce@minhacienda.gov.co


IX.    For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
