 IEG
                                                                                           Report Number: ICRR14767

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                            Date Posted: 06/25/2015

                 Country: Colombia
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                   Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                2
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                2
             Series ID: S129465
       First Project ID : P129465                                              Appraisal                 Actual
        Project Name: Second                      Project Costs (US$M):                    300.0                  300.0
                          Programmatic Fiscal
                          Sustainability And
                          Growth Resili
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                     300.0                  300.0
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy          Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                             Board Approval Date :                                 06/30/2011
                                                            Closing Date:            06/30/2012           06/30/2012
          Sector(s):    Non-compulsory pensions and insurance (36%); Central government administration (29%);
                        Compulsory health finance (28%); General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (7%)
         Theme(s):      Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (29%); Macroeconomic
                        management (21%); Debt management and fiscal sustainability (21%); Natural disaster
                        management (15%); Tax policy and administration (14%)
    Second Project ID :P123267                                                  Appraisal               Actual
        Project Name:   First Programmatic         Project Costs (US$M):                   200.0               200.0
                        Fiscal Sustainability
                        And Growth Resilien
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                   200.0               200.0
     Sector Board:      Economic Policy             Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                    Board Approval Date :                                 11/13/2012
           Cofinancers:                                     Closing Date:            06/30/2013           06/30/2013
          Sector(s):    Non-compulsory   health finance (40%), Central government  administration (40%),
                        Compulsory health finance (20%)
         Theme(s):      Health system performance (40%), Debt management and fiscal sustainability (40%), Tax
                        policy and administration (20%)
Evaluator:              Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                 Group:
                                                Coordinator:
Aghassi Mkrtchyan       Mauricio Carrizosa      Lourdes N. Pagaran        IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Program Document (PD) The Public Sector Reform Development Policy Loan’s objective was to
    enhance fiscal sustainability and strengthen resilience of economic growth (Loan and Program Summary, page
    5). The Financing Agreement does not contain a statement of objectives. IEG uses this objective for the purpose
    of this ICR review.

b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    i) Budget predictability and stability . In this policy area the expected outcome was a more predictable, stable and
    efficient management of fiscal resources. Specifically, this policy area aimed at reducing the central government
    structural fiscal deficit to 2.4 percent of GDP; increasing central government non-oil tax revenue to 13.2 percent
    of GDP; and ensuring satisfactory implementation of the fiscal rule. Prior actions under this policy area included:
    submission of the draft Fiscal Rule bill to the Congress; promulgation of a Law on tax policy reforms to reduce tax
    exemptions, close the loopholes, and phase-out financial transaction tax (first operation); implementation of the
    fiscal rule through developing a Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF) and appointing the consultative
    committee (second operation).

    (ii) Social security liability management : In this policy area the expected outcome was improved management of
    fiscal vulnerabilities of the health system. Specifically, this area was focused on putting a cap on reimbursements
    to health insurance companies from Solidarity and Guarantee Fund (FOSYGA). Prior actions included:
    promulgation of a Law strengthening primary health care and establishing criteria for updating the Mandatory
    Benefit Package (MBP); resolutions to establish more efficient reimbursement system; establishing a committee
    to monitor reimbursements (first operation); updating MBP and establishing a contingency fund for the health
    insurance system (second operation).

    (iii) Disaster Risk Financing : In this policy area the outcome was identifying sources of natural disaster risk,
    quantification of their potential fiscal impact, and introducing relevant financial instruments. Expected result was
    implementation of three financial instruments to mitigate disaster risks and increasing the coverage of agricultural
    insurance to 1.2 percent of cultivated land. There were two prior actions in the second operation – approval of
    disaster risks financing strategy and modifying the reserve requirement for firms providing insurance against
    earthquake, and improving institutional framework for its private agriculture insurance market.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The program provided US$ 500 million to the Government of Colombia. First operation, in amount of US$ 300
    million, was appraised in June, 2011 and approved by the Board on July 21, 2011. It became effective on
    November 10, 2011 and was closed on June 30, 2012. Second operation, in amount of US$ 200 million was
    appraised in September, 2012 and approved by the Board on November 13, 2012. It became effective on
    December 7, 2012 and was closed on June 30, 2013.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

    Substantial

    The program Development Objective was relevant to Colombia’s priorities at appraisal and evaluation. Colombia
    made strong advances in fiscal reforms over the past decade, such as adopting fiscal responsibility as a
    constitutional provision and strengthening the management of royalties from natural resource extraction. This
    helped to reduce the fiscal deficit and contain public debt at comfortable levels. Fiscal reforms, however, were far
    from completed at the time of program preparation as Colombia's fiscal accounts remained vulnerable against
    the background of relatively high exposure to commodity market volatility, low tax to GDP ratio and contingent
    liabilities arising from increasing health care costs and natural disasters. The series built on a strong momentum
    of reforms toward further improving fiscal institutions through adoption of a fiscal rule. The operation also
    capitalized on the reform momentum in expenditure controls in health sector and on-going work on developing
    financing mechanisms for Disaster Risk Management. The objective was strongly linked to the CPS (2012-16)
    outcome of improved fiscal, financial, and social risks management under the “inclusive growth and enhanced
    productivity” theme of CPS. That said, inclusion of "growth resilience" in the statement of objective to some
    extent affected the clarity of objective given that the program was expected to contribute to it only through fiscal
    sustainability channel. At evaluation, program objective remains relevant to the Bank’s CPS.


b. Relevance of Design:
   Modest

   The design of the operation includes three policy areas that are relevant to the objective.

   The causal chain, reflected in the policy matrix, linked three outcomes to the specific reform actions. Policy
   actions supported by the series, in most cases, had sufficient institutional depth and drew on analytical work that
   reflected the Bank’s contribution and value added. The choice of programmatic approach is a design strength
   given the multi-step nature of the fiscal reforms supported by the program.

   Despite these strengths there were weaknesses in the links between policies to the outcomes sought by the
   program that affected the program's design.

        The overall direction of tax policy reforms supported by the series was not fully and clearly defined. This also
         made unclear the links from tax policy actions to program's objective. First, Government’s actions to
         eliminate the loopholes in the financial transaction tax do not seem consistent with the plans to phase-out
         the tax as a distortionary one altogether beginning 2014. Second, the program did not include or at least
         discuss the luxury tax introduced in 2012 which was introduced parallel to the program. Third, the series
         supported an increase in the rate and the base of the wealth tax, a temporary measure to generate
         resources for coping with La Niña disaster, without providing justifications on the usefulness of such an
         ad-hoc measure for the program's objective, and a clearly defined exit strategy for the tax. All of these three
         introduced uncertainty on how fiscal sustainability was to be enhanced.

        While policy actions in the area of managing social security liabilities were directed at both defining
         mandatory benefit package (MBP) and controlling reimbursements outside of MBP, the outcome sought by
         the program was only in the area of improving control over reimbursements outside MBP. This affects the
         links between policy actions and outcomes as it does not allow an assessment of the impact of Bank
         supported actions on overall health expenditures as a part of social sector liability management.

   The relevance of design was also affected by the fact that cash and debt management that was originally
   presented as an important area to support the objective was eventually left out of the program due to
   non-implementation of the trigger.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
 Enhanced fiscal sustainability and strengthened resilience of economic growth : Substantial

   Efficacy is assessed against the achievement of enhanced fiscal sustainability and strengthened resilience of
   economic growth through the achievement of expected outcomes discussed below.

        Improved management of commodity revenues: The ICR reports that the Law on Fiscal Rule, adoption of
         which was one of key policy actions supported by the program, has been in full implementation since 2012.
         After its approval the Government focused on institutional framework for its implementation, including setting
         up the Consultative Committee and the expert group for calculating the structural balance. The structural
         budget deficit in 2013 was at 2.4 percent of GDP, which is in line with the Law and the program’s target. IMF
         reports that the headline deficit (deficit without cyclical adjustments) was at 2.3 percent of GDP in 2014
         compared to 3.9 percent in 2010.

        Higher efficiency of revenue collection: With respect to non-oil tax revenues, the initial target established by
         the first operation was to increase their combined ratio to GDP from 12.1 percent in 2010 to 12.5 percent in
         2013, which, however, was revised to 13.2 percent during preparation of the second operation against the
         background of optimistic expectations. The ICR reports that the actual value as of 2013 was 12.9 percent,
         which is below the target. As expected, elimination of tax credits for investments supported by the series
         was the biggest driver of the increase in tax revenues. Closing the loopholes in the financial transaction tax
         also contributed to the increase. Assessing the overall impact of Bank supported actions on tax revenues,
         however, is hampered by the fact that the ICR does not provide information on the status of expected
         phase-out of the financial transaction tax and the wealth tax, and it is not clear if this level of revenue
         mobilization can be sustained going forward. The ICR does not provide information on the impact of new tax
         initiatives not supported by the operation (such as the luxury tax introduced in 2012) on overall tax
         performance.

        Reduced expenditure pressures and contingencies arising from the health insurance system: The ICR
         reports that as a result of implementation of the new framework supported by the series, reimbursements to
         health insurance companies for medical goods and services outside MBP was kept at below the target of
         COP 2.4 billion in 2013, in line with the target. Having said that, the ICR does not provide information on the
         overall impact of prior actions (that also included reforms in MBP through legislative changes) on social
         expenditures, and, respectively, on the overall fiscal outlook.

        Strengthening capacity to respond to adverse natural events while protecting the fiscal balance: As a result
         of the adoption of national financing strategies for natural disaster risk management (a policy action
         supported by the series) the Government developed three financing mechanisms: 1) a catastrophic DPL with
         a deferred drawdown option with the World Bank; 2) a financial protection sub-account of the National Fund
         for Disaster Risk Management; and 3) mandatory standard terms and conditions for the insurance of road
         and infrastructure against disaster risk.

        Reduced fiscal risks arising from the agricultural sector: With respect to the expected increase of cultivated
         lands under insurance, the program supported actions to provide incentives for agricultural insurance, which,
         according to the ICR, increased the coverage from less than 1 percent of total cultivated lands in 2010 to
         more than 2 percent in 2012 and 2013, exceeding the target of 1.2 percent.

   In summary, in 2011-14 fiscal sustainability was enhanced through implementation of the new fiscal rule and a
   better management of contingency liabilities. Improved fiscal management is expected to strengthen resilience of
   economic growth by providing safeguarding against excessive volatility. There are, however, uncertainties in the
   Government’s tax program which may, to a certain extent, affect medium-term fiscal outlook. Furthermore, the
   Government is not yet accumulating resources in the new Stabilization Fund established to fund counter-cyclical
   policies. Economic growth in 2011-14 was robust.


   Overall macroeconomic performance : Colombia’s economy grew at above 4 percent per annum in 2012-2014.
   Fiscal and external balances have improved, inflation remained low one-digit. External debt was reduced as a
   result of fiscal consolidation, while foreign exchange reserves that declined substantially in 2009-2010 recovered.
   Colombia saw an improvement in its credit ratings throughout this period. The slump in oil prices has deteriorated
   Colombia's terms of trade, and the impact on fiscal accounts and implementation of the Fiscal Rule is yet to be
   seen.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   IEG's outcome rating of moderately satisfactory . Relevance of the program's objective was substantial. A modest
   relevance of design reflected shortcomings in spelling out the strategic directions of tax policy actions supported
   by the program and dropping the treasury management component, as well as weaknesses in the links between
   policy actions and outcomes in the area of social security liabilities. The program helped to enhance fiscal
   sustainability through introduction and implementation of the fiscal law to further cement fiscal responsibility,
   increasing the tax to GDP ratio, managing social sector expenditures and developing financing mechanisms for
   disaster risk management. Overall effectiveness of the series could have benefited from more clarity in the
   strategic directions of tax policy reforms and a more comprehensive approach in addressing social security
   liabilities.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The authorities demonstrated strong commitment to fiscal responsibility, which in turn was expected to reduce
   volatility and contribute to growth resilience. There has been a shift toward focusing on improving the tax to GDP
   ratio from its low base in order to underpin fiscal responsibility and create fiscal space for important expenditures.
   There are risks to sustainability of from recent achievements in revenue mobilization, as some of the measures
   were temporary. The slump in oil prices since mid-2014 will be a major test for growth resilience in general and
   the country’s fiscal rule in particular.The government considers a deeper structural tax reform that will help
   complete the transition to a low price equilibrium.
  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The Bank team worked closely with the Government to build on the strong momentum around fiscal reforms
   and to respond to the borrower financing needs. There was solid Bank led analytical work underpinning most
   of the institutional reforms. The Bank team was pro-active in introducing changes to the program to respond
   to the evolving operational environment, including changes in the target values of indicators and introducing
   new outcome indicators. Quality of entry, however, suffered from shortcomings in the tax reform program
   discussed in section 3a, including ad-hoc measures without clear exit strategies, and the fact that an
   important revenue measure was left outside of the program (introduction of the luxury tax). Revisions to the
   results framework were of mixed quality as some of the changes did not improve the quality of indicators (see
   section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   Supervision was carried out through Bank missions during which two Implementation Status Reports were
   prepared (one for each operation). The Bank maintained a close dialogue with the authorities. The ICR was
   delayed by around four months to collect additional data on reforms’ results. The supervision coincided with
   preparation of the subsequent DPO covering tax policy reforms (Enhancing Fiscal Capacity to Promote
   Shared Prosperity Development Policy Loan).


  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   The ICR reports that the Government demonstrated strong ownership and commitment to the program
   objectives. Fiscal sustainability remains a priority area for the Government, evidenced by Bank’s continuing
   engagement in this area. Government actions in the area of treasury management were weaker resulting in
   non-implementation of the trigger. The ICR reports (without providing details) that despite this
   non-implementation the borrower remains committed to these reforms, and some progress had been
   achieved by the time of preparation of the ICR.



  Government Performance Rating :                             Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and the National Planning Department were the key implementing
   agencies responsible for overall coordination of implementation and M&E, as well as for implementation of
   actions under the first and third policy area. Ministries of Health and Agriculture were responsible for
   implementing actions in the second and third policy areas. The ICR reports mostly satisfactory performance,
   with some shortcomings in coordination for M&E by the National Planning Department.
  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    Most of the indicators selected for measuring the results were adequate. Indicators on structural budget deficit
    and tax to GDP ratio were sufficiently outcome-oriented. The ICR reports that the indicator on the number of
    financing mechanisms to mitigate natural disaster risks lacked “precision”, which, however, reflects the need to
    be flexible in the area. The indicator on reimbursements outside MPB provided only partial information about the
    progress in managing social security liabilities as the M&E framework did not include an indicator on payments as
    part of MPB. This review also finds that the indicator on the consultative committee’s ruling on fiscal rule
    implementation, added during preparation of the second operation, was weak as it overlapped with the main
    indicator on implementation of the fiscal rule and did not provide value added.


b. M&E Implementation:

    According to the ICR, the National Planning Department, one of the coordinating agencies, was responsible for
    collection the data from various sources. The ICR does not report any problems with M&E implementation.


c. M&E Utilization:

    The ICR does not report any utilization of the M&E system beyond monitoring program implementation.

  M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
    None

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
    The ICR does not report fiduciary issues

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
    None

d. Other:
    None


12. Ratings:                            ICR                IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory           Moderately            Although the program helped to
                                                      Satisfactory          introduce the Fiscal Law, a key building
                                                                            block for fiscal sustainability, and to
                                                                            improve the tax to GDP ratio, the tax
                                                                            reform program spelled out in and
                                                                            supported by the program did not
                                                                            address all ongoing actions and was
                                                                                 not fully defined. The lower outcome
                                                                                 rating also reflected difficulties in
                                                                                 assessing the overall impact of the
                                                                                 reforms in social sector liabilities due to
                                                                                 design issues.
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate             There are risks to fiscal sustainability
                     Outcome:                                                    arising from expected withdrawal of
                                                                                 wealth and financial transaction tax, as
                                                                                 well as risks to the sound
                                                                                 implementation of the fiscal rule due to
                                                                                 the major decline in oil prices.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately           Shortcomings in the design, including
                                                            Satisfactory         weaknesses in the tax program that the
                                                                                 series was built on and in the design of
                                                                                 social liability management policy area
                                                                                 adversely affected Bank performance.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    This Review supports the lessons cited in the ICR, especially with respect to possible high returns for middle
    income and high capacity countries from engaging with the Bank in the design and implementation of reforms
    through DPOs, and risks from over-ambitious approach in upgrading the target values of the indicators during
    the implementation of the series. The review adds the following two lessons:

         A fragmented approach to tax reform programs supported by DPOs, when some important reform actions
          are not covered by the operation nor discussed as part of policy dialogue, may affect DPOs’ effectiveness
          in supporting policy and institutional change. The lack of a comprehensive and internally consistent reform
          program with clear presentation and discussion of possible inter-temporal choices with respect to
          temporary measures increases the risks to fiscal sustainability.

         Very short implementation periods and tight closing dates for DPOs may be ineffective even in middle
          income and high capacity countries such as Colombia. The delay in ICR preparation requested by the
          team reflects the fact that a relatively short time period was initially allocated for implementation of the
          series (24 months from the approval of the first operation to the closing of the second) built around fiscal
          reforms.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides detailed accounts and analysis on most important aspects of the program. There are
    shortcomings, however:
       The ICR does not provide information on the status of phasing-out of the financial transaction tax that was
          expected to begin in 2014.
         There is no information on Government's plans to withdraw the temporary wealth tax.
         The ICR does not provide an updated estimate of the impact of the phasing out of these taxes on tax
          revenues.
         The ICR does not provide information on some important tax policy initiatives that were not part of the
          program but had important implications on tax collection, such as the luxury tax introduced in 2012.
         Finally, the ICR also lacks a good discussion on implications of program's achievement for growth resilience.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
