         DOCUijJ
                                        LOAN NUMBER 8080-CO




      Loan Agreement
   (First Programmatic Fiscal Sustainability and
   Growth Resilience Development Policy Loan)


                     between ,


          REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA


                       and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




      Dated    OC112I 2b              , 2011
                                 LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated October 26, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA ("Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT ("Bank") for the purpose of providing financing in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Bank has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I .A of Schedule I to
this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower's maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
policy framework. The Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
       constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
       Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
       the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                 ARTICLE II— LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of three hundred million Dollars
        ($300,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement ("Loan").

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program
        in accordance with Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
        not later than sixty days after the Effective Date.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
       equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread;
       provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
       the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
       such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
       Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
       amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
       payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
       Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
       General Conditions.
2.05. The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
       amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07. (a)      The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
               of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
               (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of
               the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal
               amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a
               Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable Rate based on a Variable
               Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed Spread; and (iii) the setting
               of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the
               principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the
               establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the
               Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
       (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
       Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
       promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
       Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
       To this end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions (Project
       Monitoring and Evaluation):

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request; and
       (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
               Section, the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation
               that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
               Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
               specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                   ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a
       situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
       significant part of it, will be carried out.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
        the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out
        the Program and with the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
       Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
       case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan
       which expire on January 21, 2013.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01. The Borrower's Representative is its Minister of Finance and Public Credit.

6.02. The Borrower's Address is:

        Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
        Camera 7 A N° 6-45 Piso 3°

        Facsimile: (571) 350 9344

6.03. The Bank's Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD               248423(MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.        64145(MCI)
                                                -4-


        AGREED at               ocrcP   a   ,
                                                 P,p U   It C of    COVflbIU as of the
day and year first above written.



                               REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA



                               By
                                                      Ministry of Finance and ljublic
                                                                 Authorized R nrese



                               By
                                                             National Planning Department
                                                             P   Authorized Representative



                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                               By
                                                                   Au orized epresentative
                                         -5-


                                    SCHEDULE 1

                  Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds

Section I.     Actions under the Program

A.      The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:

               The Borrower has presented to Congress, for approval thereby, the Fiscal
               Rule Bill of Law.

        2.     The Borrower has: (i) promulgated Law No. 1430, dated December 29,
               2010 and published the same in the Borrower's Official Gazette on
               December 29, 2010, which, inter alia, reduced tax exemptions, closed
               tax loopholes and phased-out the Borrower's financial transaction tax;
               and (ii) issued Presidential Decree No. 4825, dated December 29, 2010
               and published the same in the Borrower's Official Gazette on December
               29, 2010, which, inter alia, increased the rate and the base of the wealth
               tax, as said law and decree are in full force and effect.

               The Borrower has promulgated Law No. 1438, dated January 19, 2011
               and published the same in the Borrower's Official Gazette on January 19,
               2011, which, inter alia, strengthened primary health care and established
               the criteria for updating the Mandatory Benefit Package, as said law is in
               full force and effect.

        4.     The Borrower's Ministry of Social Protection has issued: (i) Resolution
               No. 4377, dated October 29, 2010, which, inter alia established a
               reimbursement system that allows more predictability in the
               reimbursement rates for selected high-cost medicines; and (ii) Resolution
               No. 1020, dated March 31, 2011, which, inter alia, established a
               reimbursement rate ceiling for the reimbursement of forty seven
               pharmaceutical active ingredients not covered by the Mandatory Benefit
               Package of the Contributory Regime, as said resolutions are in full force
               and effect.

               The Borrower's Ministry of Social Protection has issued Resolution No.
               1083, dated April 5, 2011, which established a committee to monitor and
               analyze the trend of reimbursements paid by FOSYGA for health care
               goods (including pharmaceuticals) and health services not covered by the
               Mandatory Benefit Package of the Contributory Regime, as said
               resolution is in full force and effect.
                                           M


Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank
        may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Borrower may make withdrawals of the Loan proceeds.
        The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the table below:

                                                            Amount of the Loan
                      Allocations                           (expressed in USD)

         (1) Single Withdrawal Tranche                           300,000,000

         TOTAL AMOUNT                                            300,000,000

C.      Payment of Front-end Fee. No withdrawal shall be made from the Loan
        Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee.

D.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Bank
        is satisfied: (1) with the Program being carried out by the Borrower; and (2) with
        the adequacy of the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework.

E.      Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

                all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
                into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
                and

        2.      the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Borrower's budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Bank.

F.      Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the
        Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines
        at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an
        Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
        refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts
        refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.      Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2012.
                                         -7-


                                    SCHEDULE 2

                               Amortization Schedule

The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on February 15, 2029.
                                          -8-


                                        APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

       "Congress" means the legislative branch of the Borrower.

       "Contributory Regime" means the Borrower's mandatory health insurance
       scheme designed to provide health insurance to individuals in the formal sector
       of the Borrower's economy, which regime is financed by contributions from
       employers, employees and retired employees.

        "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
                Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
                Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
                or grant;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the S[TC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
                Borrower:

              Group         Sub-group                   Description of Item
               112                          Alcoholic beverages
               121                          Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse
               122                          Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
                                            containing tobacco substitutes)
               525                          Radioactive and associated materials
               667                          Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones,
                                            unworked or worked
               718             718.7        Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel
                                            elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
                                            nuclear reactors
               728             728.43       Tobacco processing machinery
               897              897.3       Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
                                            metals (except watches and watch cases)
                                            and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
               971                          Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
             agreements to which the Borrower is a party);

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
             Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
             United Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower
             (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
             satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

4.   "Fiscal Rule Bill of Law" means the Borrower's bill (Proyecto de Ley No. 112 de
     2010 Camara - No. 261 de 2011 Senado), dated September 30, 2010, which
     establishes, inter alia: (a) a numerical target for the Borrower's central
     government structural deficit; and (b) provisions stipulating that the Borrower
     can deviate from this target only under special circumstances, including national
     emergencies or economic shocks.

5.   "FOSYGA" means Fondo de Solidaridad y Garantia, the Borrower's Guarantee
     and Solidarity Fund, established under the Borrower's Ministry of Social
     Protection, pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 100, dated December 23, 1993.

6.   "General Conditions" means the "International Bank for Reconstruction and
     Development General Conditions for Loans", dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

7.   "Mandatory Benefit Package" means Plan Obligatorio de Salud , the Borrower's
     positive list of healthcare goods (including pharmaceuticals) and health services
     covered under the Borrower's two health insurance regimes: (a) the Contributory
     Regime (defined hereinafter); and (b) the subsidized regime, as defined in the
     Borrower's Laws: (1) No. 100, dated December 23, 1993; and (2) No. 1122,
     dated January 9, 2007.

8.   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
     referred to in the letter dated June 20, 2011, from the Borrower to the Bank
     declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
     requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its
     execution.
                                          -10-


9.      "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
        category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule I to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

        The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                "Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                        (c)       The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
                under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
                shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records."

6.      Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                "Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                ...     (c)      The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
                furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
                report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
                Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
                Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
        The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
        deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
accordingly:

(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
       follows:

        "`Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Loan is put in
       support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
       pursuant to the Loan Agreement."

(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition are deleted in its
       entirety.

(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
       modified to read as follows (and all references to "Project" throughout
       these General Conditions are deemed to be references to "Program"):

       "Program' means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
       support of which the Loan is made."
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
