Document of
FILE COPY *The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1834-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
TURKIYE SELULOZ VE KAGIT FABRIKALARI ISLETMESI
AND
SEKA BALIKESIR MUESSESESI
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE BALIKESIR NEWSPRINT PROJECT
May 4, 1976
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
| their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



Currency Unit              Turkish Lira (TL)
US$ 1                  TL  16.00
TL  1       =          US$  0.063
TL 1,000       =          US$ 62.50
TL 1,000,000       =          US$ 62,500
Turkish Government Fiscal Year = March 1 to February 28
SEKA Fiscal Year = January 1 to December 1



FOR OFFICI     USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO TURKIYE SELULOZ VE KAGIT
FABRIKALARI ISLETMESI AND SEKA BALIKESIR MUESSESESI
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR THE BALIKESIR NEWSPRINT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Turkiye Seluloz ve Kagit Fabrikalari Isletmesi (SEKA) and SEKA Balikesir
Muessesesi (The Balikesir Establishment) with the guarantee of the Republic of
Turkey, for the equivalent of US$70 million to help finance the foreign ex-
change cost of the Balikesir Newsprint Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years including 4 years of grace with interest rate at 8.5 percent per an-
num. Turkey would charge SEKA and the Balikesir Establishment a guarantee
fee of 1.5 percent per annum on the outstanding amount of the Bank loan, bring-
ing the cost of the loan to 10 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic updating mission visited Turkey in November 1974 and
its report (No. 71la-TU) entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Turkey" dated June 9, 1975, was circulated to the Executive Directors on June
17, 1975. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        Despite an uncertain domestic political situation resulting in fre-
quent changes of Government since 1971 and, more recently, the international
recession, Turkey has maintained an impressive rate of economic growth. GNP
grew rapidly in the last decade, averaging an impressive 7 percent annual
growth in real terms in the period 1962-72. Industry, power, transport and
construction were the sectors contributing most to this growth rate. Due
largely to a decrease in agricultural production reflecting poor weather con-
ditions, the growth rate dropped to 5.5 percent in 1973, but recovered to 7.4
percent in 1974, and reached an estimated 7.9 percent in 1975, compared to the
Third Plan (1973-77) target of an average of 7.9 percent per annum. Despite
some difficult problems that the economy faces, this relatively high growth
rate underlines the basic vitality of the Turkish economy. The main issues
facing the Government, which require the establishment of priorities as well
as of corrective measures, are: (a) high rate of inflation; (b) insufficient
mobilization of public resources; (c) employment generation problems; .(d).
deterioration in the balance of payments; and (e) inadequate coordination
among Government agencies in project implementation (discussed in para 14
below).
4.        The budgetary situation in the last decade was dominated by the
relatively rapid growth of public expenditures. Although tax revenues also
1/   Parts I and II are identical to the Presidents Report for the loan to
the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (P-1816-TU) dated April 14, 1976, circu-
lated to the Executive Directors April 16, 1976.
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
grew rapidly, the increase was more than offset by the rise in Government
expenditures and transfers. As a result, the overall budget deficit widened
and the Treasury borrowed increasingly from the Central Bank. In 1972 and
1973, the Treasury introduced a stricter control of current expenditures and
succeeded to some degree in shifting the sources of finance for the budget
deficit from the Central Bank to the sale of Government bonds to the public.
However, partly due to a shortfall in tax revenues and partly due to increased
current expenditures resulting from inflation and the Cyprus operations, the
budget deficit rose again in 1974 to TL 7.3 billion (compared to TL 5.4 bil-
lion in 1973). Central Bank financing of the Treasury rose by TL 4 billion
and became a major factor in monetary expansion at a time when stricter mone-
tary controls were needed. The deficit in 1975 was originally estimated at
TL 9 billion, but is likely to be significantly larger.
5.        Over the years, the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) have general-
ly earned low profits, necessitating an increase in budgetary transfers from
public resources to meet their operating and investment needs. A significant
portion of the SEEs' deficits are accounted for by the Turkish Railways and
the Coal Corporation. Other SEEs have shown either small profits or small
losses. During 1974, the prices of several SEE products were raised sub-
stantially (ranging from 20% to 167%) to improve their respective financial
situations. In addition, railway tariffs were increased by an average 56 per-
cent in 1975. The savings performance of the SEEs showed some improvement in
1973 and 1974, and they were able to finance an increased proportion of their
investment from their own resources. However, because of delays in implement-
ation - resulting from poor managerial and limited technical capabilities - and
because of difficulties in the procurement of imported materials, the gains are
still below Third Plan targets. Consequently, many SEEs continue to rely on
substantial budgetary transfers. The reform of the SEEs--in organization,
management, executive and labor skills and pricing policies--remains crucial,
especially if Turkish industry is to be prepared for competition from the ECC.
Realistically, these basic reforms can only be initiated by a strong and stable
Government which commands significant and coherent parliamentary support.
6.        The rate of domestic inflation has been high in recent years.     The
average rate of increase in wholesale prices rose from about 20 percent per
annum in 1973 to nearly 30 percent in 1974. Inflationary pressures have been
partly fueled by growth in domestic liquidity, which averaged about 25 percent
per year during 1970-74. Other contributing factors include increases in
agricultural support prices for domestic and export products as well as in
minimum wages, and substantial increases in import prices. Measures to re-
duce the growth of domestic liquidity, without discouraging investment and
growth, are essential to ease inflationary pressures. The trend towards
rapid increases in Central Bank financing of the public sector needs to be
reexamined. In late 1974, the Government raised interest rates to encourage
private savings and long-term lending. The interest rate on medium-term
credit was raised from 12 to 14 percent and rates on time deposits up to one
year from 4 to 6 percent. The present government of Prime Minister Demirel
regards the restoration of domestic price stability as one of the key prob-
lems on which Government policy must be focused. There has in fact been a



- 3 -
significant reduction in the rate of inflation in the last year. The whole-
sale price index rose by only 11.0 percent in 1975 compared to 30 percent in
1974; and the Government estimates an average rate of inflation (as measured
by their GNP deflator) of only around 16 percent in 1975, compared to 27 per-
cent in 1974.
7.        Turkey's development strategy places greater emphasis on growth
of output through higher labor productivity, than on increased employment. As
a result, the labor surplus, including that in agriculture, rose from an esti-
mated 1 million in 1962 to 1.6 million in 1973, representing about 10 percent
of the labor force. Until 1973, emigration, especially to Germany, partially
eased the pressure on employment. Between 1965 and 1973, net emigration
totaled about 450,000. The economic slowdown in Europe has, however, consider-
ably reduced labor emigration from Turkey, from 136,000 in 1973 to only 20,000
in 1974 and 5,000 in 1975.   Nevertheless, the Third Plan continues to emphasize
investment in capital-intensive industries and estimates the non-agricultural
labor surplus to grow to 300,000 by 1977. With prospects of further emigration
of Turkish labor to Europe reduced, at least in the medium-term, unemployment
should be a major concern of economic policy. A pilot land reform program is
currently underway in Urfa province in the southeast where most of the larger
farms are located; expropriation of land was started in November 1974. Speedy
implementation of rural development programs would also help to slow migration
and ease unemployment in rural and urban areas. In addition, labor intensive
production methods need to be emphasized, where appropriate, in the formulation
of projects. However, even with these measures, and faster growth than
planned in construction and services, unemployment is likely to remain a
significant problem.
8.        The Third Plan constitutes the first phase of Turkey's long-term
strategy for the period 1973-95. The ultimate objective is to raise stand-
ards of living in 1995 to those of Italy in 1970, through rapid industraliza-
tion and decreasing dependence on external resources. The Plan aims at an-
nual growth rates of 8 percent in GDP, 12.7 percent in fixed investment,
a marginal national savings ratio of 38 percent (compared with about 18 per-
cent in the Second Plan), an annual increase in commodity imports and exports
of 9.4 percent and 7.1 percent respectively, which taken together with pro-
jected growth in invisible earnings (mainly workers' remittances), is ex-
pected to result in a decline in gross inflows of official external assistance.
9.        Prospects for continued high economic growth remain good, although in
view of the shortfall of the first two years of the Third Plan, achievement of
the 7.9 percent average rate of annual growth during the Plan period seem un-
likely. The Plan's projections also seem to be overly optimistic on prospects
of an increased savings level and balanced external accounts with reduced
levels of external assistance. Experience during the last two years suggests
that present efforts to mobilize greater domestic savings to support a rapid
growth of investment, especially in the public sector, need to be greatly
intensified. The Plan anticipates that two-thirds of the increase in national
savings will come from the public sector, through increases both in surpluses



- 4 -
of the SEEs and in tax revenue. Given the past performance of SEEs and delays
in implementing a general reform in the SEEs (see paragraph 5 above), the ex-
pected rapid growth in their surpluses is not likely to be realized. Given
the present domestic political outlook, it will also be most difficult to raise
tax revenues to the extent envisaged by the Plan. There is nevertheless scope
for increases, if appropriate policies are pursued more vigorously, e.g. im-
proving tax administration, widening tax coverage to include agricultural in-
comes and service incomes, increasing the rate of property taxation and intro-
ducing a value added tax. Domestic resource mobilization in the public sector
is, in any case, likely to continue to be a significant constraint in the
growth of public investment. Besides improved financial performance from
the SEEs, increased borrowing abroad as well as increased long-term borrowing
from the domestic private sector will be necessary to achieve the ambitious
public sector investment targets. As Turkey's development program requires
funds in excess of savings that can be mobilized domestically, and these can-
not be provided in adequate amounts if foreign finance is limited to foreign
exchange cost of high-priority projects, some local cost financing by foreign
lenders will be required.
10.       The balance of payments projections of the Plan have not taken into
account recent developments on the international scene. The sharp increase
in the price of petroleum and other imports during 1974 and the prospects of
further increases in import prices in the next several years, indicate that
foreign exchange needs for financing imports will be much higher than projected.
Commodity imports and exports in 1973 were already above the level projected
for 1977. Workers' remittances in 1972 were higher than the 1977 target and
continued to grow until recently. However, they decreased by 8.0 percent in
1975 as compared to 1974, and their future is uncertain, due to the temporary
restriction on further entry of foreign workers into the major labor-importing
countries of Europe. On the other hand, recent agreements between Turkey and
Libya to send Turkish workers to Libya, and the possibility of similar arrange-
ments with other oil-producing countries, should help alleviate the situation.
11.       After substantial surpluses in 1972 and 1973, Turkey's overall bal-
ance of payments experienced a deficit in 1974, with net reserves declining
by about $360 million. This was due partly to a sharp increase in the trade
deficit and a slowdown in the growth of workers' remittances, as well as to a
reduction in official capital aid inflows. The large trade deficit resulted
mainly from an 80 percent increase in the import bill (in particular, petro-
leum, wheat, iron and steel), due mainly to higher prices. Imports continued
to rise at a rather rapid rate in 1975, and totaled about $4.7 billion during
the year. On the other hand, export earnings, which totaled about $1.4 bil-
lion in 1975, registered a decline because of the recession in major importing
countries, agricultural supply constraints, restrictions on exports to relieve
domestic shortages, relatively inflexible export pricing policies, diversion
of some goods to Cyprus, and deteriorating terms of trade. As a result, gross
reserves declined to about $1.8 billion at the end of 1974, and further to
about $1.0 billion at end of December 1975 (the equivalent of about 2.7 months
of imports at the present rate). In the medium-term, Turkey's balance of
payments is likely to come under significant pressure. Such pressure could,



however, be partly eased, by lifting quantitative restrictions on certain ex-
ports, e.g. cement and olive oil, designed to accommodate domestic supply.
The Government should also avoid fixing commodity prices at levels above those
prevailing in international markets. Even more important are deliberate mea-
sures to contain the growth of imports. Without such measures, and in the
absence of a resurgence of growth in Europe, Turkey faces the prospect of
continued, perhaps intensified, pressures on its balance of payments and its
reserves. In May 1974, the Turkish lira was revalued vis-a-vis the dollar from
TL 14.00 per US$ to TL 13.50 per US$, without a change in parity with other
currencies. In September 1974, the exchange rate per US$ was readjusted to
TL 13.85, and in April 1975, it was restored to the previous parity of TL
14.00. As a result of subsequent small devaluations, the rate per US$ stood
at TL 16.00 as of April 2, 1976.
12.       At the end of 1974, total external debt outstanding and disbursed
was estimated at $3.1 billion, of which all but 3 percent was public or pub-
licly guaranteed. The share of the Bank Group was about 11 percent of total
debt outstanding and about 8 percent of total debt service in 1974. The aver-
age terms of new credits made available to Turkey have been hardening in
recent years, and this trend is expected to continue. Debt service as a
ratio of exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances
was about 6.5 percent in 1974, compared to 12 percent in 1971. Despite
the deterioration in the balance of payments in 1975, the debt service ratio
is expected to remain within acceptable limits in the medium term, if proper
policies are pursued. In view of the decline in foreign reserves and anti-
cipated pressures on its balance of payments in the medium-term, Turkey should
continue to exercise considerable care in its external debt management, and
its resort to suppliers' credit financing should also be kept within closely
monitored limits. Meanwhile, Turkey continues to be creditworthy for Bank
financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
13.       The 1970 economic stabilization program (see para 11 above) and
devaluation of the Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, en-
abled Bank Group lending, which had previously been intermi-ttent, to be es-
tablished on a continuing basis at a high level. As of March 31, 1976, the
Bank Group has lent $1,085.2 million to Turkey through 44 lending' opera-
tions (or 39 projects, since both loans and credits were provided for some
projects), of which $1,000.8 million is outstanding. Fourteen of these
operations have been in agriculture and rural development (including multi-
purpose), sixteen in industry (including DFCs), eight in power and the rest
in urban development, transportation, and education. Agriculture and rural
development account'for 28 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for
37 percent and power for about 26 percent. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31,
1976 respectively, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Imple-
mentation of projects has been satisfactory in the private sector, but less
so in the public sector where significant delays have resulted from political



- 6 -
uncertainty, limited coordination among agencies, staffing problems and
related administrative delays. Disbursements have consequently been slower
than expected. To improve this situation, the Government established in
August 1975, a ministerial coordinating committee, supported by a new secre-
tariat located in the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for coordi-
nating all aspects of Bank Group operations. In connection with this new
framework, the Government and the Bank initiated in June/July 1975, joint
quarterly reviews to identify and resolve key bottlenecks impeding satisfac-
tory project implementation. The results so far have been encouraging, con-
sidering that these reviews were initiated only a few months ago, and the
rate of commitments and disbursements in the last few months has begun to
improve.
14.       A serious issue continues to beset the Elbistan power project (Loan
No. 1023-TU). As a condition of effectiveness of the loan, the Government had
undertaken to raise electricty tariffs by about 30 percent in order to enable
the power authority (TEK) to earn the 8 percent rate of return prescribed by
the TEK law and set forth in Loan Agreements with the Bank. Because of
serious inflationary pressures faced in 1974-75 and in recognition of the
Government's anti-inflationary policies, agreement was subsequently reached
on a lesser tariff increase that would enable TEK to earn 6 percent in 1976
as a transitional measure.   Since the Government has not yet implemented the
requisite measures, the Bank has not been able to declare the Elbistan loan
effective. The Bank is in close consultation with the Turkish Government on
this issue, as well as with its co-lenders for the Elbistan project.
15.       Bank lending to Turkey is mainly directed at supporting Turkish ef-
forts to improve: (a) lagging public sector saving, through gradual improve-
ment in the SEEs; (b) better income distribution and improvement in the level
of living standards, through rural development efforts, better urban planning
and increased employment and incomes; and (c) long-term capacity to earn fo-
reign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agroindustrial exports
and tourism. While the Bank continues to support gradual institutional and
structural changes in the sectors in which lending is provided, continued
substantial external financial assistance is equally important, in view of
the increase in projected capital import requirements and the anticipated
medium-term pressures on the balance of payments and on overall fiscal re-
sources, mentioned in paragraphs 9-11 above.
16.       In support of these objectives, it is proposed to continue to devote
the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors, of which agriculture
is the most important. In this sector, emphasis is being put on rural devel-
opment, livestock and the strengthening of agricultural credit mechanisms, as
provided for under the proposed project. Industry (including mining and DFCs)
and- power, where the gradual strengthening of the SEEs is the key task, are
also receiving significant support. This program will be supplemented by
future projects in selected sectors including urban development, tourism and
transport. Until recently, Bank lending was also focused in two geographical
areas: (i) the Istanbul region, with emphasis on urban planning, water
supply, power distribution and industrial finance; and (ii) the Cukurova
region around Adana on the southern coast, with emphasis on power, irrigation,
and fruit and vegetable production. Lately, the focus has been gradually



- 7 -
broadened, especially to include the Anatolian plateau and eastern Turkey, in
support of efforts to widen the geographical base of development, develop
rainfed agriculture, improve the distribution of income, and discourage rapid
urban migration and encourage tourism development. The latter will be sup-
ported through the proposed tourism infrastructure project in the south
Antalya coastal area likely to be ready for Board consideration at the end of
FY76. Also being prepared for Board consideration in FY76, is a Third Live-
stock Development Project focused on the dairy subsector. Other projects
under preparation and being processed towards appraisal include wastewater
disposal in Istanbul, a hydroelectric project, a second DFC operation with the
State Investment Bank (DYB), and a second railways project.
17.       IFC has invested in the production of nylon yarns, pulp and paper,
glass, aluminum and steel pipes. As of March 31, 1976, gross commitments
totaled $118.1 million, of which $70.8 million were still held by IFC. IFC
is currently investigating investment opportunities in the industrial sector,
including textiles, synthetic fibers and inorganic chemicals.
PART III - THE PULP AND PAPER AND FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR AND THE BORROWERS
General
18.       Turkey with 19 million hectares of forests, has the fourth largest
forestry resources in Europe after Finland, Sweden and Spain. However, the
yields per hectare and the contribution made by forestry products to GNP are
much lower, largely due to outdated forest management techniques and the
fact that wood processing enterprises are still being developed. It is
estimated that perhaps 20 percent of the labor force depends on this sub-
sector for their employment and they are among the poorest people in Turkey.
19.       Recognizing the economic potential of its forestry resources, some
years ago Turkey began a series of-studies with UNDP assistance to survey
these, develop better management techniques and identify and prepare plans
for more intensive utilization. The first series of studies resulted in the
Antalya Forest Utilization Project (Ln. 957-TU) - now renamed the Akdeniz
(Mediterranean) Forest Utilization Project - Turkey's first large-scale in-
tegrated wood products project, for which the Bank provided a loan of $40
million, and the European Investment Bank a loan of $24.4 million equivalent.
The second series of detailed forestry resource studies covering the North
Aegean, Marmara and Black Sea regions, is nearing completion and indicates
that these also have substantial wood resources available for exploitation.
The proposed project resulted from the preliminary findings of these studies.
The Borrowers
20.       The major consumer of forestry resources in Turkey for conversion
into pulp and paper is the State Pulp and Paper Enterprise (SEKA), which was
established in 1955 as a Government-owned State Economic Enterprise (SEE).
Its share capital of TL 2.6 billion is held fully by the Government. A six-man



- 8 -
Board of Directors closely supervises operations, and includes a representative
each from the Ministries of Industry and Finance and from the labor unions.
The remaining three members are SEKA's General Manager, who is also the Chair-
man of the Board and his two Assistant General Managers. All of them are
appointed by the Council of Ministers. Overall, SEKA's management and staff
is sound. In 1975, SEKA employed over 10,000 persons and had a sales of
nearly TL 3 billion.
21.       SEKA's head office is in Izmit, the site of SEKA's original plant.
In 1970, SEKA began an ambitious program of expansion. Three new plants
(Caycuma, Aksu and Dalaman) are now in production and another three, including
the proposed project, are at various stages of implementation (Afyon, Akdeniz
and Balikesir). Each of these plants is organized as a wholly owned subsidiary
("Establishment" under Turkish law) of SEKA, with its own legal personality
and separate financial structure. However, their autonomy in most matters is
limited and they operate more like divisions set up as cost centers. The
Balikesir Establishment, set up to deal with the proposed project, has an
authorized share capital of TL 100 million, which will be increased to TL
1,280 million as the project is implemented. Its day-to-day operations will
be supervised by an administration committee consisting of the manager and
his two assistant managers. For major decisions, the manager will coordinate
closely with SEKA's general management.
22.        SEKA's production has increased from about 100,000 tons of paper and
paper board in 1966 to about 308,000 tons in 1975. It is expected to reach
about 540,000 tons by 1980. SEKA's three new plants which are now in produc-
tion all faced start up difficulties, but these are being gradually overcome.
In 1975, the Caycuma plant reached 96 percent of capacity, Aksu 86 percent and
Dalaman 93 percent. Attracting and retaining high caliber technical staff
has been and remains a problem, in part because of the lack of competitiveness
of public sector salaries. SEKA has developed training and other programs to
compensate for this. Other problems include overmature and too dry wood sup-
ply which reduces product output and quality, and power outages. SEKA is
working with the General Directorate of Forestry to resolve the former problem.
23.       SEKA's sales, which consist of different types of paper products in-
cluding newsprint, have expanded rapidly in pace with production; they in-
creased from TL 951 million in 1971 to TL 2,750 million in 1975. Operations
showed net losses in the years 1971 to 1973 reflecting the start-up of the new
plants. Although the good overall results in 1974 resulted in a profit of
TL 135 million, a cost-price squeeze in 1975 led to a loss of TL 119 million.
SEKA has, however, essentially mastered its first wave of expansion projects.
Sawnwood
24.        Sawnwood consumption in Turkey has grown at 7.5 percent per year for
the last ten years and reached about 2.7 million m3 in 1974. The 17 public
sector sawmills operated by the Ministry of Forestry accounted for 0.3 mil-
lion m3 of this and the approximately 5,000 small private sawmills the re-
maining 2.4 million m3. Imports and exports are not significant. -Demand
in 1982, the year when the sawmill under the proposed project will yield



- 9 -
full production, is projected to be 4.2 million m3, or an increase of about
1.5 million m3 over 1974. The only known firm expansion plans are for SEKA's
two sawmills at Silifke (170,000 m3), being built under the Akdeniz Project,
and at Balikesir (105,000 m3) to be built under the proposed project, which
together would supply less than 20 percent of the expected increase in demand.
Therefore, by 1982, demand will substantially exceed planned sawnwood produc-
tive capacity in Turkey. Besides, since the proposed Balikesir sawmill is
well located to supply the markets of Istanbul, Izmir and Ankara, no problems
are expected in marketing the wood. Prices for sawnwood vary considerably in
Turkey and SEKA does not currently sell sawnwood. In any case, to market its
substantial production, SEKA has agreed to introduce new marketing methods for
sawnwood in connection with its two mills (Loan Agreement, Section 4.05). In
contrast to the present auction system, it is planned that prices will be set
in published price lists, sales will be through regional selling offices of
SEKA instead of at plant site, and in order to provide for steady product
flow, SEKA will arrange transportation from the plant instead of the buyer
having to do so.
Pulp and Paper
25.       The high capital cost associated with maximum economies of scale in
producing pulp and paper has been a major deterrent for Turkish private
investors. Its manufacture has therefore been dominated by SEKA. In 1974,
SEKA produced 301,000 tons of paper and paperboard products, including 95,000
tons of newsprint. Another 62,000 tons of pulp and paper products was pro-
duced by the private sector, who mainly use imported pulp and waste paper as
raw materials. Over one-half of the production in the private sector comes
from the three largest manufacturers, including Viking Kagit ve Seluloz A.S.,
in which IFC has invested about $3.2 million. While it is anticipated that
SEKA will continue to dominate the production of pulp and paper, private
sector enterprises will continue to concentrate in converting paper products,
such as corrugated containers. The two largest private converters are current-
ly going forward, as part of a vertical integration program with the construc-
tion of two small pulp/paper mills, to produce a total of about 55,000 tpy of
fluting and bogus linerboard from straw and waste kraft paper. SEKA is
Turkey's sole producer and importer of newsprint.
26.       Demand for pulp and paper products has grown at a rate of 10 percent
per year for the last ten years reaching 386,000 tons in 1974, of which 23,000
tons was imported. Demand is expected to continue to grow at this rate and
reach about 685,000 tons in 1980. Newsprint accounts for about 25 percent of
total demand, or 93,000 tons (2.4 kg per capita) in 1974, and consumption of
newsprint has also grown at about 10 percent per annum. Turkey was an im-
porter of newsprint until 1972 when domestic production became sufficient to
meet demand. In 1973, Turkey exported some production, but in 1974 production
and demand again came into balance.



- 10 -
27.       The democratic features of the Turkish society with its free and
unfettered press, a trend towards urbanization and the Government's efforts
to increase literacy levels, as well as rising expenditures for advertising,
support an expectation of continued strong growth of newspaper consumption,
and projected demand for newsprint is 138,000 tons in 1979 and 188,000 tons
in 1983. On the basis of the projected domestic market and production, small
exports from the proposed project would be possible only between 1979 and
1982, probably to some of Turkey's neighboring countries in the Mediterranean
and the Middle East who are newsprint importers. By 1983, however, Turkey once
again will have to resort to importation. To plan for meeting this demand,
SEKA and the General Directorate of Forestry (GDF) of the Ministry of Forestry,
assisted by UNDP financed consultants, are undertaking a study for utilization
of the remaining northern forest regions resources in light of the future de-
mand for wood industry products including newsprint. SEKA has undertaken to
review with the Bank, the results of the study as it pertains to newsprint
demand and production (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(c)).
28.       The ex-factory price of domestically produced newsprint is control-
led by Government under specific Turkish legislation covering "basic commodi-
ties". The 1975 ex-factory price is set at 4,500 TL/ton ($281), which com-
pares with domestic production costs excluding financial charges at SEKA's
Aksu plant of about 5,840 TL/ton ($365) and average CIF import prices on a
spot basis of about 6,000 TL/ton ($400). However, the price paid by pub-
lishers is a weighted price between the domestic fixed price and the price of
actually imported newsprint plus internal transportation, and was about 5,000
TL/ton ($313) in Istanbul at the end of 1975. The international CIF spot
price is not a satisfactory basis for comparison, since most international
sales of newsprint are on a long-term contract basis: Turkey, because of
small volume and intermittent need has in the past bought on the spot market
where prices fluctuate above and below contract prices.    The Government
presently compensates SEKA for the difference between the ex-factory price
and its production and financial costs, by including an amount in the follow-
ing years' budget equal to the actual losses for the preceding year. SEKA's
1975 losses under this price structure were TL 264 million ($16.5 million) or
about 3,000 TL/ton. Wihile these losses are made up a year later, since the
subsidy is paid from the budget only after the year of production, SEKA has
meanwhile to borrow to cover working capital needs. These subsidies do not
provide for a return on investment, nor incentives for efficient production.
29.       The Bank has asssisted the pulp and paper manufacturing sub-sector
and SEKA through the Akdeniz Project mentioned in para 19 above. This project
met with initial problems arising from the site location which was changed
based on a site relocation study done by consultants satisfactory to the Bank
and EIB. This study has now been completed, its review confirms the viability
of the new project site and a Presidents Memorandum covering the necessary
changes was submitted on April 27, 1976, for the Executive Directors' con-
sideration on a no-objection basis (R-76-95). Meanwhile, SEKA and the Govern-
ment have taken the risk of going ahead with procurement following the Bank's
guidelines, as a result of which the Akdeniz project is now expected to come
into production by 1978.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
30.       Based upon the preliminary results of the UNDP forestry surveys in
Turkey's Northern Aegean and Marmara forest regions (para 19 above) a pre-
feasibility study and subsequently a full feasibility study for a newsprint
plant was commissioned in 1974 by the UNDP, with FAO as executing agent.
This study was prepared by the Canadian consulting firm of Sandwell and Co.
Upon its completion in early 1975, the Government (the Guarantor) and SEKA
requested the Bank to consider a loan to cover the foreign exchange cost
of the project. The proposed project was appraised in October 1975. Nego-
tiations were held in April 1975 in Washington, with a delegation led by
Mr. Muamer Akinci, Chief Economic and Financial Counsellor of the Turkish
Embassy in Washington and which included SEKA's Chairman and General Manager,
Mr. Aziz Gumus.
Project Description
31.       The primary objectives of the proposed project are to provide for
Turkey's growing need for newsprint and to make more intensive use of avail-
able forest resources. The project consists of an integrated sawmill, wood
preparation plant, pulp mill and paper mill, complete with pollution abatement
and ancillary facilities, at Balikesir (which lies midway between Istanbul and
Izmir), together with a housing colony for about 1000 persons, and consultant
services for engineering, training, operational and management assistance.
The integrated complex will annually consume 221,000 m3 of sawlogs and 86,000
m3 of pulplogs. The sawmill will produce for sale about 105,000 m3 per year
of air dried sawnwood and will deliver 97,000 m3 annually of wood residue (in-
cluding sawdust) to the pulp mill. Another 86,000 m3 of wood chips will be
provided to the pulp mill by the wood preparation plant. The pulp mill will
have a capacity to produce about 80,000 tpy (bone dry) of thermo mechanical
pulp, which the paper mill will use together with 14,000 tpy (bone dry) of
imported semi-bleached chemical pulp, to produce about 100,000 tpy of news-
print. The details are provided in the Loan and Project Summary in Annex III
and in the report entitled "Appraisal of the Balikesir Newsprint Project,
Turkey" (No. 1046-TU), dated April 30, 1976, distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
32.       An integrated mill permits processing sawlogs and pulplogs at the
same time, besides utilizing the sawmilling residues for pulping. Although
larger newsprint machines operate in industrialized countries, in the light
of SEKA's capability for operation and management as demonstrated at its
existing newspr-int mill at Aksu, a plant of 100,000 tpy was considered ap-
propriate. However,-the project will utilize two recently developed, but
firmly-established, process improvements: thermo mechanical pulping and
twinwire sheet forming which offer advantages of lower cost and improved
quality, and is the process most used in the latest newsprint plants abroad.
Results of pilot plant tests show that the species of wood available in
Turkey are suitable for newsprint manufacture utilizing the proposed process.



- 12 -
33.       The problem of site acquisition which delayed the Akdeniz Project
does not arise at Balikesir. The 180 ha site, acquired by SEKA in 1971, is
suitable for the erection of industrial buildings supported on footings and
offers ample space for future expansion. The structures will be designed to
withstand major shocks, since the area has a history of earthquakes. Project
water requirements of 0.133 m3/s can be met from local sources. Transport for
the project will be entirely by road.
34.       Sufficient wood, without the application of more intensive forest
utilization practices, is available from the five forest regions closest to
the project site (Balikesir, Canakkale, Izmir, Bursa and Eskisehir) to meet
the project's current raw material demand. The project, will in fact, use
only about 25 percent of the current annual allowable cut from these regions.
SEKA and the General Directorate of Forestry (GDF) have already signed a
protocol specifying the cost and quantity of wood to be supplied for the
project, which will be changed appropriately by December 31, 1976, in consul-
tation with the Bank, after the results of the UNDP financed Northern Aegean
and Marmara Forest Study are obtained around mid-1976 (Loan Agreement, Section
4.06). It is anticipated that since the Government will be introducing more
intensive forest utilization methods in the 15 conservancies covered by this
study, wood costs will be reduced and sufficient pulpwood and sawn logs can
be obtained from the three conservancies closest to Balikesir to meet the
needs of the project. This should help reduce the costs of the logs to the
mill by about 25 percent. Electric power (60 MW) required for the project
will be supplied by the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK), through its
Balikesir substation and by a 9 MW process steam turbogenerator. A 12 km
long, 154 Kv transmission line will be built by TEK. The Guarantor has agreed
to take all necessary actions and provide necessary funds to TEK, to build the
necessary power facilities by July 1, 1978, to serve the proposed project
(Guarantee Agreement Section 3.02(a)).
Environmental Impact
35.       The project is expected to have a minimal effect upon the environ-
ment. The principal source of air and water pollution in the pulp and paper
industry is the manufacture of chemical pulp, which will not be produced by
this project, since it is based on the thermomechanical process. Water pol-
lution will come from fiber losses and from the small part of the pulpwood
which goes into solution during pulping. The liquid effluent will however be
treated in a clarifier, to remove suspended solids and in an aereated lagoon
to biochemically consume oxygen-depleting organic matter which will remove 95
percent of both deleterious components. Discharge would be to the receiving
stream at a downstream point, where sufficient flow is available to assimi-
late the small remaining pollution. The process itself would vent only water
vapor; but the power boilers would discharge sulphur dioxide into the air in
amounts depending upon the sulphur content of the available oil, and small
quantities of fly ash that might escape the fly ash separators. The anti-
pollution controls will be designed to meet environmental protection stand-
ards agreed with the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 3.06).



-13 -
Project Costs and Financing Plan
36.       The total project costs, including contingencies but excluding
about $15 million of interest and other charges during construction, are
estimated at $185 million; total financing needs including interest and other
charges are thus $200 million, of which about $82 million is foreign exchange
including about $7 million of interest and other charges on the Bank loan.
The proposed Bank loan of $70 millon would finance about 85 percent of the
foreign exchange needs and 35 percent of the total financial requirements of
the project. The loan will be made directly and jointly to SEKA and its sub-
sidiary, the Balikesir Establishment (also called the Borrowers). Lending
jointly to SEKA and the Balikesir Establishment is necessary, since SEKA's
subsidiaries have only limited autonomy in financial matters. The loan will
carry a guarantee fee of 1.5 percent to be paid by Borrowers to the Guar-
antor (Guarantee Agreements, Section 3.03 and Loan Agreement, Section 5.09).
The loan provides for up to $2.5 million equivalent of retroactive financing
for expenditures after March 1, 1976. This is needed to cover downpayments
in respect of contracts for time critical equipment which are to be let under
Bank guidelines in April and May, 1976.
37.       The remaining financial requirements, including interest during
construction, of $12 million in foreign exchange and $118 million equivalent
of local expenditure will be provided or arranged by the Government. The
Balikesir Establishment will increase, as a condition of loan effectiveness,
its authorized capital from TL 100.0 million to the TL 1,280 million ($80.0
million) or 40 percent of the total financing requirements (Loan Agreement
Section 7.01). SEKA, because of its large expansion program currently under-
way, is unlikely to have any internally generated funds available for this
project. The Government has, therefore, agreed to provide SEKA with the
equity as required for the Establishment. To complete the financing plan,
the Government has arranged with the State Investment Bank (DYB) to provide
a loan to SEKA, in an amount of at least TL 800 million ($50.0 million),
for a term of 17 years, including 5-1/2 years of grace, at an interest
of 11.5 percent per annum. Effectiveness of the DYB Loan is a condition
of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Loan Agreement Section 7.01(a)). The
Government will also provide, or cause to be provided, promptly any addi-
tional financing required to complete the project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank (Guarantee Agreement Section 3.02(c)).
Project Implementation
38.       The project will be executed by SEKA and the Balikesir Establish-
ment, assisted by their consultants, Sandwell & Co., Ltd., who have been
engaged under satisfactory terms and conditions. Sandwell is responsible
for: (a) the design of the entire plant, other than the civil and structural
engineering which SEKA has contracted locally; (b) procurement; (c) engineer-
ing supervision of construction; and (d) training, operational and management
assistance. The extent of consultant support in engineering and supervision
is typical of the pulp and paper industry, and the project provides for about
1,600 man-months of consultant services for the engineering and construction



- 14 -
phase, and about 200 man-months for the training and operational assistance
phase. Cooperation between SEKA and Sandwell is good. SEKA has agreed not
to assign, abrogate, waive or amend its contract with the consultants without
the prior consent of the Bank (Loan Agreement Section 3.05(a)). At the same
time, the Balikesir Establishment which will be responsible for the operation
of the project, is headed by a manager, who has worked in SEKA for nearly 20
years in several positions. During project construction, the staff of six
expatriate resident engineers provided by Sandwell will informally train the
Balikesir Establishment staff and help them become familiar with the equip-
ment. After project start-up, the 18-month training and operational assist-
ance program will provide senior Sandwell executives to support the Establish-
ment's top management, and a field staff of 12 experienced operating personnel,
who will be assigned adequate Turkish counterparts. (Loan Agreement Section
3.05(b)).
39.       Project implementation is already under way.    General design devel-
opment is nearing completion and detailed design has begun. Site grading,
road construction, and drainage work in preparation for construction of the
main mill buildings, is under way. The construction of offices, worker facil-
ities, a central steam heating plant, social facilities and the housing colony
is well advanced. Start-up of the sawmill is scheduled for October 1978 and
of the newsprint mill in January 1979. This timetable is considered realistic.
Procurement
40.       Procurement procedures have already begun, and advertisements and
notifications have been made in compliance with Bank Guidelines, except for
five items of wood processing equipment with a value of about US$750,000, for
which bidding had been completed prior to appraisal and which will be financed
from local sources. International competitive bidding will be followed for
machinery and equipment procured under the Loan, except for items that are
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent which may be procured by
local procedures up to a total value of US$1 million. SEKA's consulting en-
gineers are combining bid packages to the maximum extent feasible in order to
concentrate vendor responsibility. It is expected that there will be about
80 bid packages.
41.       A margin of preference of 15 percent or the applicable duty, which-
ever is lower, will be accorded local manufacturers who participate in inter-
national competitive bidding. Contracts for the remaining items (estimated
at US$20 million equivalent) and the civil works contracts (US$47 million)
will be awarded in accordance with local procedures and will be financed from
local funds.
Disbursements
42.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against 100 percent of the foreign
exchange expenditures on imported machinery and equipment, and foreign con-
sultants, 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equip-
ment, if awarded after international competitive bidding and 100 percent of
the total costs of local consultants. In the event that local manufacturers
win bids after international competitive bidding, the Bank loan would finance
such purchases with an estimated total value of about $10 million equivalent.



- 15 -
Financial Analysis
43.       Total production costs of newsprint, excluding financial charges
of the Balikesir Establishment, are projected to be about TL 6,400 ($400) per
ton. The three major items in manufacturing costs are the wood, imported
kraft pulp and power. Wood prices without taking the possible reductions
mentioned in paragraph 33 into account, are estimated to be TL 600 (US$38)
per m3 of sawlog and TL 400 (US$25) per m3 of pulplog which are in line with
prices paid by other manufacturers outside Turkey. Kraft pulp will be im-
ported at an estimated price of TL 7,600 ($475) per ton.
44.       The present system of fixing ex-factory newsprint prices below full
cost and covering only operating losses at the end of each year through a gov-
ernment budget subsidy has several deficiencies (see also paragraph 28 above).
The Government has, therefore, agreed that SEKA and the Establishment will be
allowed to set an ex-factory price sufficient to earn, under the assumption of
efficient operation at 100 percent of design capacity, a reasonable annual
return on the Balikesir Establishment's investment (Loan Agreement, Section
5.07). A reasonable annual return is understood to be sufficient to provide
for interest and other charges and a reasonable profit after covering operatin
administrative and distribution expenses including provisions for maintenance,
straightline depreciation, taxes, surcharges and other levies. Should the
Government wish to continue to subsidize the sales price of newsprint after
Balikesir goes into production, it will arrange that the difference, if any,
between the sales price to the consumer and the ex-factory price of the
Balikesir Establishment as determined above, is provided to the consumer in
such a way as to put no financial burden on either SEKA or the Establishment.
The Government is expected to propose an appropriate arrangement for this by
January 1, 1978 or about one year prior to the anticipated date when Balikesir
will begin production.
45.       Assuming a reasonable annual return on the Establishments invest-
ment, under conditions of efficient operation, an ex-factory newsprint price
of about 8,200 TL/ton ($512) in 1975 prices, including about 250 TL/ton of
profit, can be anticipated after start-up of operations. This price has been
used in the financial analysis and yields a discounted rate of return, before
income taxes, of 9.7 percent. The projected CIF contract price in 1975
dollars at that time is estimated to be $430/ton, or about 20 percent above
present prices reflecting the anticipated impact of recent world-wide sharp
increases in investment costs of newsprint mills. The difference between the
Turkish price and the estimated CIF price is due to economies of scale in the
larger world producers, direct taxes on inputs and higher power costs in
Turkey as compared with major manufacturers who are in traditionally lower
power cost areas. Moreover, the Turkish price reflects conservative assump-
tions about the efficiency of production in Turkey.
46.       To provide the Balikesir Establishment with'a sound financial
structure and adequate liquidity when it begins operations, assurances were
obtained from Government that it will provide SEKA sufficient equity funds
during the construction of the project to enable the Establishment to maintain
a debt-equity ratio of 60/40 and such additional funds as may be needed at



- 16 -
completion to make current assets at least 1.5 times current liabilities
(Guarantee Agreement Section 3.02, Loan Agreement Section 5.06). Following
start-up, to ensure adequate funds are retained in the Establishment, SEKA and
the Balikesir Establishment have agreed that transfer of profits to SEKA will
only take place if the Establishment would continue to maintain current assets
at least 1.3 times current liabilities (Loan Agreement Section 5.05). Should
the Establishment face liquidity problems, the Government has agreed to enable
SEKA to provide the funds necessary to keep Balikesir's current assets at
least 1.1 times current liabilities (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(e) and
Loan Agreement Section 5.05).
47.       Financial projections indicate, however, that, with the ex-factory
price set as described above, liquidity is not likely to be a problem. The
Establishment is expected to accumulate cash in excess of operating needs.
However, start-up losses will be experienced in the first 2 years causing the
debt/ equity ratio to rise to a peak of 65/35 in 1980 before returning below
60/40 in 1982. The debt service coverage would be 1.1 in the first operating
year increasing thereafter to a level of about 1.5. These ratios are accept-
able in view of the expected cash accumulation. The project would break even
in 1981 at a capacity utilization of about 81 percent. The Enterprise could
be in a position to pay dividends to SEKA by about 1982, in time to help fi-
nance the anticipated needed expansion in newsprint production capacity. The
projections are conservative and reflect reasonable assessments of risks due
to delay in completion and slower production build up.
Economic Analysis
48.       The economic rate of return for the project, including the townsite,
is estimated at about 16 percent, using a shadow exchange rate and the above-
mentioned cif contract prices for newsprint. If prices increased an addi-
tional 10 percent, the economic rate of return would increase to about 20
percent. If manufacturing costs would increase by 10 percent more than the
estimates, the return would drop to 14 percent. Direct employment effects are
small in relation to the investment, in total about 850 employees will be re-
quired. However, about another 2,500 jobs are expected to be generated in
forestry operations related to the project. Net annual foreign exchange sav-
ings, which are important for a country like Turkey which is experiencing
pressures on its balance of payments, are estimated at $34 million as compared
with total project foreign exchange requirements of $82 million. This implies
that after the Balikesir plant goes into production, the foreign exchange cost
of the project will be paid off within 2-1/2 years, through the foreign ex-
change savings resulting from reduced newsprint imports.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank, SEKA and the Balikesir
Establishment, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern
for loans for industrial projects.
50.       Special conditions of effectiveness are:    (a) the authorized share
capital of the Balikesir Establishment has been increased to TL 1,280 million,
and (b) the execution and delivery of the agreement related to the DYB loan of
TL 800 million has been authorized and ratified and is in full force and
effect (Loan Agreement Section 7.01).
51.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 4, 1976






AasL I
Pag-e I of 6 Pages
TABLE 3A
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INOtCATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KR21                                                            - -----
-     - ----                                    TURKEY                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      780.6                                      MOST RECENT
ARABLE     329.6                       1960      l9ro   ESTINATE          COLONIA       IRAN          ITALY
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    250.0       450.0      600.0              330.0       600.0     1980.0
POPULATION AND VlTAL STATISTICS
___________.. .T _-_--.--.--_--.--.--_--_-
POPULATION  MIO-YR. MILLION)            27.5       35.2       37.9               21.6        29.1       53.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        35.0       45.0       49.0               19.0        18.0     I18.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND              ..        ..        115.0
VITAL STATtSTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         45.0   b   38.0 3     39.0               45.0        45.0       16.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         18.0        11.        is                11.0        17.0        9 .r
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       187.0       I'*.l45.,     . *O.oa                    140.0        29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)       55.0       .55Ob       5                  59.0        50.0       71.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.6 Pa      ..                3.2         3.4        1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                 3.0         2.5        2.5                3.2         3.2        0.8
URBAN                                  5. 5       4 .5       5.5                5.5         5. 0
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)           32.0       19.0       39.0               60.o        41.0 
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.S3        l.a         *-               4r.0        46.0 a     24.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       55.2       5s.9 9s 50.0                               70.0a      65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.5         4.3         ..                3.0         4.07a     10.4
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9         ..                I.0         1.0 a      a.s
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0        1.iL/        ..               1.r7        1:.9Za     o.s
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMJLATIVE, THOU)          0.0       484.0d        ..              116.0      662.0
USERS (1 OF MARRIEO WOMEN)            5.3/0       8.2                                      10.0
ENPLOYENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       13000.0     145D00.0e  I50D.0              6200.0     8700.0     19600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (I)          71.0       61.0        60.0              39.0        43.0       19.0
UNEMPLOYED (1 OF LABOR FORCE)            2.0&       4.0/f       *-                7.0         2.0        3.1
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
X ]F PVIVWT   INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST  52 OF POPULATION            33.0   h    32.8         ..               31.9       29.7.
HIGHEST 200 OF POPULATION            61.0 e h    60.6         ..               60.1 L     54.4/.
LOWEST  201 OF POPULATION             4.0   h      .s                           3.5 d       4.0
LOWEST  40X OF POPULATION            11.0 a h     9.4         *-               to1.1 d     12.          ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNEO aY TOP 10  OF OWNERS             ..       53.0         ..                 ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OANERS           ..         0.9         ..                 ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             32 2.O     2220.0     2190.0             2160.0      3300.0      550.0
POPULATION PCR NJRSING PERSON         3260.0/f   1880.0/h   1830.0             1040.0/e    3230.0      470.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           650.0       490.0      480.0              450.0       780.0       90.0 7
PER CAPITA SUPP,Y OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIRENENTS)         10. 0      110.0      129.0               97.0        e6.0      126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER ODY)              78.0        78.0       91.0               51.0        53.0      100.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        22.0          ..              29.0f       14.Q/c     42.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGE'S 1-4           16.0 j      15.&          ..                .. .0.                1.0
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      r7.0        111.0         ..               95.0        62.0      10T.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     15.0        28.0         ..               21.0        26.0       59.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0        11.0       11.0               11.0        12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
IX OF SECONDARY)                     18.0        14.0       14.0               25.0 &      3.0        26.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)                 40.0L      55.0          ..                *-
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               2.0        1.9         ..                 ..         2.2/.d
OCCUPIEO DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WAT-R.                         81.0        64.0         a. ..                         r. oZae
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(1 OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 29.0        41.0         ..                 ..        25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                    2.0        18.0         ..                 ..4. 
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          49.0       89.0       106.0             105.0        93.0      218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        4.0         6.0              11.O        10.0      190.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH#YR PER CAP)          102.0       244 .0     3 04. 0            4 14 .0     246.0     2Z66.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.8        0.7         1.7               2Z.8        0.4        5.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



o IL
4,
:9    2
-1 r    I I I
9 9     t
7g
Z       t
MW
V  Z                      .1
El
-El                   a
90
t R
2 t
1.
9    t
41 9
t 8.
B t
5 X                                                                            I's



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Growth Rates          1973
Actual                  Est.          Projected            196-     1973-    1975-  Share
1965     1970     1972    1973     1974     1975     1976     1980    1973     1975     1980    of GDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL billions at 1968 prices)
GDP (m.p.)                          87.4    123.8    144.7    151.3   163.2    175.3    188.9    261.6     7.1      7.7      8.3    100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade           -0.1     -0.7    -14.2     2.1     -2.4      ..       ..      ..
Gross Domestic Income               87.3    123.1    130.5    153.4   160.8      ..       ..      ..
Exports (g + nfs)                    4.8      6.7      8.7     9.6      6.7      8.1      8.8     12.1      9.0      -       8.5      6.3
Imports (g + nfs)                    5.4      9.6     12.9    14.3     16.8     18.1     19.3    25.1     12.9     11.9      8.8      9.5
Resource Balance                    -0.6     -2.9     -4.2     -4.7   -10.1    -10.0    -10.5    -13.0                                3.1
Consumption                         73.6    101.2    121.4    125.9   139.1    143.9    153.8    204.1     7.0      4.6      7.3     95.1
Investment                          14.4     25.5    27.5     30.0     34.8     40.7     45.6    71.8      9.6     16.5     12.0     19.8
Domestic Savings                    13.8     22.6     23.3    25.4     24.1     31.6     35.1     57.5     7.9      7.6     12.7     16.8
National Savings                    14.1     24.0     27.7    31.4     30.1     37.6     41.1    63.5      10.5     9.5     11.0     20.8
GDP (at current m.p.)               74.2    144.6    228.9    293.5   411.3      ..                        18.8
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                       Share of GDP (fc) at 1968 Prices (I)
Agriculture                         34.1     29.1     28.2     24.5    24.3      ..       ..      ..       2.4
Industry                            17.8     20.6     21.8    23.5     23.6      ..       ..      ..      10.5
Services                            48.1     50.3     50.0    52.0     52.1      ..       ..      ..       7.7
C. PRICES (1968 - 100.0)
Export Price Index                 100.0    137-3    169.0   234.3    397.0      ..       ..      ..
Import Price Index                 109.3    140.6    194.6   216.4    323.6      ..       ..      ..
Terms of Trade Index                91.5     97.6     86.8    108.3   122.7      ..       ..      ..
GDP (m.p.) Deflator                 84.9    116.9    158.2    194.0   252.0      ..       ..      ..
Average Exchange Rate ($1.00 - TL)  9.00    15.00    14.00    14.00   14.00      ..       ..      ..
D. SELECTED INDICATORS                         1965-73  1973-75  1975-80            E. LABOR FORCE            1965     1970     17
Incremental Capital/output ratio              3.1     3.2      3.2                  Labor Force (mln)              14.7
Import Elasticity                             1.8     1.5      1.1                  Unemployment (mln)     0.4      0.6
Average National Savings Rate                18.4     20.4    24.3                  (% of TL)              3.1      4.5
Marginal National Savings Rate               24.8     32-3    29.6                  Employment (mln)       13.2    14.1
Imports/GDP                                   7.8     9.7     10.5                   (% share)
Investment/GDP                               19.4     21.9    25.2                    Agriculture         70.5     62.1
Resource Gap/GOP                              2.3      4.5     3-9                    Industry             8.0      9.8
Services             21.5    28.1
F. PUBLIC FINANCE
(as , of GOP at current m.p.)       1965     IR70     1972    1!15     1974
Current revenue                     12.9     28.1     20.6    19.4     18.8
Tax revenue                         14.3     16.5     17.4    17.5     16.4
Current expenditure                 10.0     10.2     10.6    10.1      9.9
Defense expenditure                  4.5      3.3      3.5     3.8      3.3
Government savings                   2.9     10.8     10.0     9.3      8.9
Capital expenditures                 4.7      4.8     3.8      3.5      4.7
Public sector fixed capital formation 8.8    10.0     8.8      8.5      8.8
February 17, 1976



AN4NEXI
Page 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1969     1970     1971     1972     1973     1974     1975     1976      1977     1980
A.  Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Food                                 39.6     82.8     70.8     26.8     39.7    192.8    197.0    202.0     206.0    221.0
Other goods                          36.8    165.2    196.0    231.6    163.9    172.2    187.0     204.0    223.0    288.0
Petroleum and products               60.8     66.7    121.1    114.7    131.9    205.3    203.0    203.0     210.0    232.0
Other intermediate goods            311.6    261.3    406.3    576.0    707.3    967.0   1072.0    1171.0   1256.0   1552.0
Capital goods                       315.6    342.9    392.5    564.6    614.0    717.6    769.0    825.0     886.0   1094.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                764.4    918.9   1186.7   1513.7   1656.8   2255.9   2428.0   2605.0    2781.0   3387.0
Non-factor services                 150.0    -43.3    242.6    178.4     77.5     76.5     80.0     80.0      90.0    100.0
Total goods and NFS                 914.4    873.7   1400.6   1669.6   1655-3   2332.4   2508.0   2685.0    2871.0   3487.0
B.  Prices Index (1968 = 100)
Food                                103.0    106.o     95.0     94.0    116.0     166.0   178.0     158.0    150.0    158.0
Other goods                         103.0     92.0     89.0     91.0    134.0     126.0    151.0    164.0    177.0    219.0
Petroleum and products              100.0    100.0    103.0    135.0    168.0    419.0    448.0     487.0    528.0    652.0
Other intermediate goods            108.0    101.0     84.0     77.0     95.0     120.0   133.0     145.0    156.0    193.0
Capital goods                       103.0    110.0    118.0    129.0    151.0    170.0    190.0     206.0    222.0    275.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                105.0    103.0     99.0    103.0    126.0     167.4   182.4     193.5    206.4    250.9
Non-factor services                 103.0    110.0    118.0    129.0    151.0     170.0    201.3    220.0    236.7    294.0
Total goods and NFS                 105.0    103.0    104.0    107.0    133.0     167.8    183.0    194.3    207.3    252.1
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Food                                 40.8     87.8     67.3     25.2     46.1     320.0    351.0    319.0    309.0    350.0
Other goods                          37.9    152.0    174.4    210.8    219.6     217.0    282.0    335.0    395.0    631.0
Petroleum and products               60.8     66.7    124.7    154.9    221.6    860.0     908.0    989.0   1109.0   1512.0
Other intermediate goods            336.5    263.9    341.3    443.5    671.9    1160.0   1426.0   1698.0   1959.0   2995.0
Capital goods                       325.1    377.2    463.1    728.3    927.1    1220.0   1461.0   1700.0   1967.0   3009.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                801.1    947.6   1170.8   1562.7   2086.3   3777.0    4428.0   5040.0   5739.0   8497.0
Non-factor services                 154.5    -47.6    286.3    230.2    117.0     144.0    161.0    176.0    213.0    294.0
Total goods and NFS                 955.6    900.0   1457.1   1792.9   2203.3   3914.0   4589.0    5216.0   5952.0   8791.0
February 17, 19 76



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EXPORT DETAIL
1969     1970     1971     1972     1973     1974      1975     1976     1977     1980
A.  Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Cotton                              123.3    165.4    123.8    107.4     151.3    77.3     100.0    125.0    150.0    180.0
Tobacco                              77.8     73.7     65.7     90.9     81.3     83.7      85.0     88.0     90.0    100.0
Hazelnuts                            99.9     63.0     56.0     78.1     72.0     104.7    110.0    120.0    130.0    160.0
Raisins                              25.1     21.6     28.9     36.9     60.5      30.9     60.0     63.0     67.0     85.0
Mining and quarry products           33.3     32.4     22.5      19.7     20.7     21.7     22.0     23.0     24.0     30.0
Manufactured goods                   96.5     96.3    126.7    188.4    301.4     272.0    300.0    320.0    350.0    440.0
All other goods                      79.2     79.8      92.8    114.0    159.6     54.1    120.0    150.0    170.0    230.0
Total goods (f.o.b.)                535.1    532.2    516.4    635.4    846.8     644.4    797.0    889.0    981.0   1225.0
Non-factor services                 140.4     23.8    151.3     131.1    198.1    229.9    253.0    261.0    279.0    355.0
Total goods and NFS                 675.5    556.0    667.7    766.5   1044.9    874.3    1050.0   1150.0   1260.0   1580.0
B. Price Index (1968 - 100)
Cotton                               92.1    104.7    156.0    178.2    202.1     461.6    377.7    447.6    489.6    587.5
Tobacco                             104.8    106.7     130.7    144.0    163.3    243.6    256.0    277.0    299.0    397.0
Hazelnuts                           107.7    138.1    150.4     149.1    169.1    186.6    208.4    228.8    248.2    308.4
Raisins                              91.0     96.2     75.2     82.6      93.7    187.1    209.0    229.5    249.0    309.3
Mining products                     104.8    140.2    178.4     177.8    201.6    230.2    232.0    253.0    258.0    328.0
Manufactured goods                  100.4    104.2    114.6     125.9    142.8    213.2    235.0    256.0    276.0    341.0
All other goods                     100.4    104.2    114.6     125.9    142.8    163.1    181.0    196.2    212.0    262.0
Total goods (f.o.b.)                100.3    110.6    131.0    139.3     155.5    225.0    241.3    269.3    293.7    360.2
Non-factor services                 100.4    104.2    114.6     125.9    142.8    167.0    202.0    220.0    237.0    294.0
Total goods and NFS                 100.3    110.3    127.3    137.0     153.1    219.1    231.8    258.1    281.2    345.3
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Cotton                              113.6    173.2    193.1    191.3    305.8     356.8    378.0    560.0    734.0   1058.0
Tobacco                              81.5     78.6     85.9    130.9     132.9    203.8    217.6    243.8    269.1    397.0
Hazelnuts                           107.6     87.o     84.2    116.5     121.7    195.3    229.2    274.6    322.7    493.4
Raisins                              22.8    220.8     21.7     30.5     56.7     57.9     125.4    144.6    166.8    262.7
Mining and quarry products           34.9     45.4     40.1     35.1      41.7     50.0     51.0     58.2     61.9     98.4
Manufactured goods                   96.9    100.3     145.2   237.2     430.4    580.0    705.0    819.2    966.0   1500.4
All other goods                      79.5     83.2    106.4     143.5    227.9     88.3    217.2    294.0    360.4    602.6
Total goods (f.o.b.)                536.8    588.5    676.6    885.0    1317.1   1532.0   1923.2   2393.8   2881.3   4412.0
Non-factor services                 141.0     24.8    173.4     165.0   282.9     384.0    511.1    574.2    661.2   1043.7
Total goods and NFS                 677.8    613.3    850.0   1050.0   1600.0    1916.0   2434.3   2968.0   3542.5   5455.7
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Paeg 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAY1MNIS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In 0S$ Millions)
Actual                       Eat,                             Projected
19,0       1971      1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980
SUMMARY OP BLALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (goods)                                   588       677        885      1,317     1,532      1,923      2,394     2,881      3,312      3,826     4,412
Imports (goods)                                  -948    -1,171     -1,563    -2,086     -3,777     -4,428     -5,040    -5,739     -6,549    -7,484     -8,497
Non-factor services, net                           -4        -3         27        165       246        350        398       448        541        641        750
Resource balance (1+2+3)                         -364      -497       -651       -604    -1,999     -2,155     -2,24.8   -2,410     -2,696     -3,017    -3,335
Interest, net                                     -47       -60        -62        -59       -75       -106       -133      -163       -196       -239      -281
Workers' remittances                              273        471       740      1,183      1,425     1,600      1,792     2,007      2,248      2,518      2,820
Profit transfers                                  -33       -36        -35        -35       -55        -50        -50       -60        -60        -70        -70
Net factor income (5+6+7)                         193       375        643      1,089     1,295      1,444      1,609     1,784      1,992      2,209      2,469
Balance on current account (4+8)                 -171      -122         -8        485      -704       -711       -638      -626       -705       -808       -866
Private direct investment                          58        45         43         27        25         30         30        30         40         40         40
TI Grain Imports and grants                        83         55        16         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -
Com-ercial credits (net)                           -         -          -          52        75        213         50       253        349        378        382
Direct imports (with waivers)                      34        27         39         50        65         80         90        100       110        120        130
public MH-IT loans:
Disbursements                                     271       293        294        376       306        382        373       406        426        470        479
Amortization                                     -197      -125       -127       -107       -85       -14-4      -155      -174       -189       -201       -205
Net disbursements                                  74        168       167        269       221        237        218       252        237        270        274
Debt relief                                        16         13        10         35        -          -          --                   -          -          -
EMA refinanc.Ing                                   50         37        -          -          -         -          -          -         -          --
Overall balance                                   144        223       267        918      -318       -150       -250        -10        30         --40
Short-term capital                                 18         61       332       -244        -88      -100        -50         -         -          --
Change in reserves (--increase)                  -138      -344       -627       -728        362       250        330         10       -70         -40
Errors and omissions                              -24         60        28         54        -44        -     -         -          -          -               -
End of period:
Cross international reserves                      431        761     1,401      2,120      1,758     1,510      1,210      1,200     1,230      1,230      1,190
Net international reserves                         11        414       556      1,006        430       .180      -120      -130       -100       -100       -160
GRANT AND LOAN COMOITMENTI
Official grant                                     -          -         -          - 
Total public Mi-iT loans                        271.1      336.7     441.7      319.6      578.0
IBRD                                           40.0     .54.5      177.0      105.0     228.0
IDA                                              -        19.5      36.3       30.0        -'Outstanding 12/31/74
Other multilateral (RIB)                       15.7       13.0       1.7       49.8      90.0      EXTRENL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)            Aiount     Percent
Governments                                   168.2     219.4      194.7      114.9     170.0                                                (135$ Millions)
of which:   Eastern Bloc                   (113.7)   ( 2.8)     (   - )    (   - )   (   - )     IBERD                                     208.1      4.8
Suppliers                                      27.2       20.8      29.2       19.9       75.0     Bankc group                               334.8       7. 7
Financial Institutions                         20.0        9.5       2.8         -       15.0      Other multilateral (EIB)                  245.7       5.7
Bonds                                            -          -         -          -          -      Governments                             2,299.8      53.0
Public loans-                                               -         -          -         -         of which: centrally planned
economies                   (267.0)     (6.2)
Other MH-iT loans-                                            -         -          -          -      Suppliers                                 114.0       2.6
Financial instItutions                     73.7       1.7
N4l(RANDUM ITENS                                                                                     Bonds                                      17.5       0.4
% Grant element (Pub. 144-T)                     47.0      47.0       45.0       41.0      30.6      Public debt NEI                             6.0
Average Interest CL)                              3.1        3.9        3.8       4.4        6.0     Total public 544-IT debt                3,091.5
Average maturity (years)                         19.1       25.3      21.6       23.5       23.7     Other public M-T.T debt
other 144LT debt
DEBT AND DEFT SERVICE                                                                                Total public debt (cine. undisb.)
Medium and Long-term debt (disbursed only)                                                           Total Mi-IT debt (inc. undisb.)         4,341.7     100.0
Total debt outstanding (DOD; end period)      1,841      2,235     2,454      2,803      3,091
Including undisbursed                         2,684     3,041      3,387      3,778     4,342      DEBT PROFILE
Public debt service                             171        162       208        183       211      Total debt service 1974-78/total
+ interest                                     42         51        61         77        87        DOD end of 1973                          42.7
Other 144-T debt service
Total debt service
Debt Burden (percentage)
Debt service ratio (goods and NPS)             26.3      21.3       21.0       14.9      11.7
Debt service ratio (goods and services)        18.6       13.2      12.0        8.6       6.4
Debt service/GDOP                               1.8        1.2       1.3        0.9        1.7
Public debt service/Government revenues         9.0        5.7       6.4        4.7        3.9
Terms
Interest on total DOD/Total DOD                 2.3        2.3       2.5        2.7        2.8
Total debt service/Total DOD                    9.3        7.2       8.5        6.5       6.8
Dependency Ratios for Mi-IT Debt
Gross disbursements/imports (incl. NPS         35.7       38.0      19.6       15.7        8.8
Net transfer/imports (inc. Nfl)                16.7       16.9       7.9        7.4        -
Net transfer/gross disbursement                46.8      60,3       40.6       46.9         -
Exposure
IBRD disb./gross total disbursement             5.5       5.6        7.2       16.6      21.8
Bank group diab./grosa total diab.              7.7       6.8        8.2       17.5      25.8
IBRD DOD/total/DOD                              2.9        3.2       3.7        5.0       6.7
Bank group DOD/total DOD                        7.4        7.2       7.8        9.1       10.8
1BRD debt service/total debt service            3.3       5.0        5.5        9.8      10.5
Bank group debt service/total debt service      3.6        5.4       6.0       10.6      11.2
January 16, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                                    Amount
Credit                                                            (Less Cancellations US$m)
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose                 Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Ten loans and eight credits fully disbursed                       139.2   92.7
587-TU    1969   Republic of Turkey       Seyhan Irrigation
STAGE II                12.0              1.8
713-TU    1970   TSKB                    Industry                 40.0             0.1
236-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Livestock I                      4.5      2.1
748-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Education                13.5             8.3
762-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable      10.0            10.1
257-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable             15.0      6.6
763-TU    1971   TEK                     Power Transmission       24.0             1.0
281-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Irrigation Rehabili-
tation                       18.0       8.1
817-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Steel Mill Expansion     76.0            24.1
844-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Water Supply    37.0            29.1
324-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Urban Dev.              2.3      1.0
845-TU_/c  1972  IGSAS                   Fertilizer Industry      42.0            12.3
330-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Livestock II                    16.0     12.0
873-TU    1972   TSKB                    Industry                 40.0             2.1
883-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas          44.0            44.0
360-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas                 30.0     19.1
892-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Power Dist.     14.0            13.5
893-TU    1973   Turkish State Railway   Railway Project          47.0            18.3
957-TU/a  1974   Republic of Turkey      Antalya Forestry         40.0            40.0
1023-TU/a  1974   TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power          148.0           148.0
1024-TU    1974   DYB                      Industry                40.0            30.4
1078-TU    1975   TSKB                    Industry                 65.0            52.2
1130-TU    1975   Republic of Turkey      Rural Development        75.0            75.0
Total /d                               906.7  178.5    559.1
of which has been repaid              82.7    1.7
Total now outstanding                  824.0  176.8
Amount Sold                   3.6
of which has been repaid    1.2        2.4
Total now held by Bank and
IDA /b                               821.6  176.8
Total undisbursed                      510.2   48.9    559.1
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c The increase of $18.0 million was approved on April 15, 1975.
/d A loan of $56.0 million to TEK was approved November 18, 1975 but has not yet
been signed.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor        Type of Business          Loan     Equity     Total
1963      TSKB           DFC                        -        0.92       0.92
1966      SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn                0.90      0.47       1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                        -        0.34       0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                        -        0.41       0.41
1969      SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                1.50      0.43       1.93
1969      Viking I       Pulp and Paper            2.50      0.62       3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                    10.00      1.58      11.58
1970      NASAS          Aluminum                  7.00      1.37       8.37
1970      SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn                0.75       -         0.75
1971      Viking II      Pulp and Paper             -        0.05       0.05
1971      SITAS IV       Nylon Yarn                 -        0.52       0.52
1972      TSKB IV        DFC                       -         0.43       0.43
1973      TSKB V         DEC                      10.00       -        10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tourism                   0.33      0.27       0.60
1974      Borusan        Steel Pipes               3.60      0.44       4.04
1974      AKSA           Textiles                 10.00       -        10.00
1974      Kartaltepe     Textiles                  1.30       -         1.30
1975      Sasa           Nylon Yarn               15.00       -        15.00
1975      Aslan          Cement                   10.60       -        10.60
1975      DOKTAS         Steel                     7.50      1.26       8.76
1975      TSKB           DFC                      25.00      1.39      26.39
1975      NASAS                                    1.58       -         1.58
Total Gross Commitments                107.56     10.50     118.06
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                 45.99       1.23      47.22
Total Commitments now held by IFC      61.57      9.27       70.84
Total Undisbursed                      10.20       2.31      12.51



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
A.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 587/143 Second Seyhan Irrigation Project: US$12 million
Loan and US$12 million Credit of February 20, 1969. Effective Date: June 17,
1969. Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Work on Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project is being perform-
ed in a satisfactory manner, and the project is expected to be completed by
the end of 1977. As regards the training component, an integrated training
program for TOPRAKSU, the Agriculture Extension Service and DSI has been
prepared and is in the process of being implemented by the Government. The
Government is also preparing recommendations for implementation of proposals
contained in the water charges study.
Cr. No. 236 First Livestock Project: US$4.5 million credit of February 22,
1971. Effective Date: December 23, 1971. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Project funds are now fully committed, and 152 subborrowers will
benefit under the Credit. This falls short of the 250-300 estimated at
appraisal due mainly to price increases. Imported cattle have performed up
to or in excess of appraisal estimates. Overall, the project has been suc-
cessful in establishing a valuable nucleus of over 3,500 high-quality dairy
animals in Turkey, setting up demonstration farms, building infrastructure,
and in promoting dairy modernization through provision of credit and support-
ing technical services to dairymen.
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
The project is about two years behind schedule, due to the initial
reluctance of the Ministry of Education to provide the project unit with ade-
quate qualified staff and authority commensurate with responsibilities, that
this unit had to undertake. However, these problems have been resolved and
implementation is now proceeding well, including procurement of equipment
(the major component of the project). The procurement of equipment (the major
component of the project) is proceeding satisfactorily. Although more limited
progress has been made in achieving the overall educational objectives of the
project, these are now receiving increased attention including progress in
expanding local advisory committees, curriculum development and training of
teachers for project schools. Similarly, interim actions have been taken
regarding operation and staffing of the Management Training Institute, pending
passage of legislation formally establishing the Institute. About $5.0 million
has been disbursed since the beginning of FY76 and disbursements are expected
to continue at a high level.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
Loan and US$15 million Credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19, 1972.
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The project was initially delayed by difficulties in making the
loan/credit effective by the due date. Progress with 3 of the 5 major proj-
ect components is satisfactory (refrigerated trucks, ferry boats, marketing
facilities). Of 2 ferry boats proposed for purchase, the financing of one
will be provided under the proposed Agricultural Credit/Agroindustries Project.
A new extension approach has been initiated to increase the citrus production,
the fourth component. The fifth, the agricultural credit survey, did not
produce meaningful results, and other arrangements have been made to prepare
an agricultural credit project for Bank financing.
Ln. No. 763 TEK Power Transmission Project: US$24 million loan of June 22,
1971. Effective Date: October 4, 1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The implementation pace of this project has been slower than origi-
nally anticipated due to staff shortages experienced in the initial years.
First contracts were awarded early in 1972 and work is now progressing accord-
ing to the revised schedule. Problems in meeting the financial covenants
are maintained in connection with the Elbistan loan.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Project construction schedules were revised in 1973 and reviewed
in 1975, with the new completion dates for Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat sub-
projects being about two years behind the original schedule. Progress on con-
struction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works at Silifke and
Tokat is now proceeding well, but on-farm works are still behind schedule at
Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season. The training
program has been developed and is in the process of being implemented. After
considerable discussions with the Bank, action has also been recently initiated
to locate and appoint individual experts required under the project.
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31,1977.
The project is over a year and a half behind schedule, due to
delays in beginning procurement, stemming largely from inefficient management.
Following continuing discussions between the Government, the company and the
Bank on these problems, a well qualified senior executive was appointed as the
president of the company, a new project manager has been appointed and manage-
ment problems have essentially been overcome. The company is however experi-
encing difficulties in finding adequate financing for the substantial cost over-
runs for the project. However, Erdemir's cash shortfall for 1975 has been



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
covered and the Government is actively exploring ways to cover the expected
1976 shortfall, including steps to find a long term solution to this problem.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The supply of water for Istanbul has increased by 69 percent since
1971, and water supply to the Asian side has doubled in the past year, but
shortages persist, particularly for municipalities adjacent to Istanbul.
Project progress is about one year behind appraisal estimates, but reasonable
progress is now being made. Draft reports of the management consultants were
completed in fall 1975 and their recommendations are now to be studied by
ISI's management.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Four consultant groups started work between November 1973 and
February 1974. Work on the Wastewater and the Bus/Traffic Engineering and
Control Projects is nearing completion. Phase I of the Urban and Transport
studies are completed, and are presently under review by the Government and
Bank prior to finalizing plans for carrying out Phase II.
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1977.
The project is expected to be completed by December 1976, represent-
ing a 3-4 month delay compared to the original schedule. The estimated cost
to complete shows an increase from $130 million to $147.3 million of which
$2.8 million is in foreign exchange. The cost overrun will be covered by the
Government, the State Investment Bank and the shareholders.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million Credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Village Livestock Development (VSD) subproject of the project
is behind schedule, due mainly to difficulties encountered heretofore in
recruiting both local and expatriate specialist staff because of the low
salaries and side benefits offered by the executing agency, the Directorate of
Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture
(MFA). However, as a result of the increased use of incentive payments and an
intensified recruitment effort in late 1975 and early 1976, the local technical
staffing of this subproject has now been increased to 37 professionals and
subprofessionals out of a current overall requirement of about 45. One of
three posts for individual experts is vacant, although a potential candidate
has been selected, subject to review by the Bank. As a result of the slow
staff build-up in the past, the VSD subproject has thus far proceeded slowly.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Less than 200 subloans of the 5,430 envisaged at appraisal are operational.
However, as a result of the recent recruitments, and additional staff being
recruited, a substantial acceleration of VSD sub-lending is anticipated
this year. Virtually all of the funds for subloans under the Livestock
Fattening subproject (FSD) are committed, and this subproject is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 873 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$40 million
loan of December 28, 1972. Effective Date: March 21, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Since the first Bank loan was made in 1950, a satisfactory rela-
tionship has been developed with TSKB whose standard of performance is con-
sistently high. This loan to TSKB has been almost fully committed.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date:
March 20, 1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After initial delays due to difficulties in engaging a suitable
engineering consulting firm, good progress is now being made. Contracts for
on-farm development equipment and for main dam construction have been awarded.
The dam contractor was expected to start work by the end of November 1975.
Although Topraksu and the Ministry of Agriculture have not yet employed ex-
perts for on-farm development and extension, agreement has been reached with
the Government on steps to resolve this issue and employ the experts as quick-
ly as possible. In view of a substantial increase in project costs, a re-
vised financing plan is now under preparation by the Ministry of Finance; how-
ever, the Government has indicated that it intends to fully cover increased
project costs.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
Progress on this project has been delayed by about three years by
lack of aggressive administration and costs have increased by nearly 130 per-
cent over appraisal estimates. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power mar-
ket and proposed company reorganization have been completed and the consultant
to study the gas supply system has now been appointed. The Government is
preparing proposals on how it will cover the increased project costs and
revitalize the company's finances.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
After initial delays, procurement of track material and other Bank-
financed items is now progressing satisfactorily. TCDD's locomotive produc-
tion, which is being financed by another external lending institution, and
the pace of track renewal have both been accelerated. However, the project
remains about a year behind schedule. Although tariffs have been raised
twice since the loan was made, other provisions of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements have not been carried out as scheduled, but agreement has been
reached with the Bank about revising some of the original targets which TCDD
should achieve.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya Forestry Project: US$40 million loan of January 28,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The date for effectiveness for this loan has been extended to
June 15, 1976, to allow time for finalizing amendments arising from a site
relocation. A study of the effects of relocation has now been completed by
consultants acceptable to the Bank, which confirms the viability of the new
project site. A Presidents Memorandum covering the needed changes in the
agreements has been circulated to the Executive Directors on April 27, 1976.
Construction has begun at the new site and the project is expected to be
completed by the end of 1978, about 2 years behind the original schedule. The
cost overruns are being met by the Government and the State Investment Bank.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan
of June 28, 1974. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
This loan to the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) and the
Turkish Coal Authority (TKI) is to help finance the development of an open-
cast lignite mine in east central Turkey and the construction of an adjacent
lignite-burning 1200 megawatt power station and associated transmission lines.
Date for effectiveness of this loan, originally November 1, 1974, has been
postponed to June 1, 1976. Arrangements for the establishment of new elec-
tricity tariffs have been agreed upon between the Government and the Bank,
but have not been implemented, thus holding up the effectiveness of the
loan and disbursements under the EIB and KfW loans, which are linked to the
Bank loan by cross-effectiveness conditions. Meanwhile engineering and
contracting are proceeding, with minor delays.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1978.
Submission of subprojects has been slower than anticipated. How-
ever, five projects totaling about $22.5 million have been approved and
disbursements are expected to increase more rapidly in the first half of
1976.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan, which brings Bank lending to TSKB to $233 million, was
declared effective by April 24, 1975. Since then, TSKB has taken significant
steps to mobilize additional domestic and foreign resources and is channelling
the bulk of its lending to Turkey's underdeveloped regions. As of mid-April,
1976, about $44 million of the loan had been committed.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankuri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan was declared effective on January 22, 1976, following
establishment of the project extension service with appointment of a project
director and two deputies. Recruitment of extension staff and some construc-
tion work have commenced.
Technical Assistance Project - Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK): US$1.9
million grant of August 20, 1967.
Technical assistance contracts covering the second phase of the
work were terminated in November-December 1972. Achievement, though short
of target in some respects, is generally satisfactory and TEK now has a much
improved accounting, budgeting and financial reporting system. Contracts for
the last phase of the work have been signed and final training program has
gotten underway, with one group of accountants having already completed train-
ing and further training groups being planned.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY - BALIKESIR NEWSPRINT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:        Turkiye Seluloz ve Kagit Fabrikalari Isletmesi (SEKA)
and SEKA Balikesir Muessesesi (Balikesir Establishment).
Guarantor:        Republic of Turkey.
Amount:           US$70.0 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:            15 years, including four years of grace, at 8.5% per annum
interest, plus a 1.5% per annum guarantee fee to be paid by
the Borrowers to the Guarantor.
Project           Construction of an integrated sawmill and newsprint manufac-
Description:     turing complex at Balikesir, which includes the following:
(a) A sawmill producing about 105,000 m3 per year of air-
dried sawnwood;
(b) A wood preparation plant to produce about 86,000 m3
per year of wood chips;
(c) A thermomechanical pulp mill to produce about 79,100
bone dry tons per year of wood pulp;
(d) A newsprint mill producing about 100,000 tons per year
of newsprint;
(e) Ancillary facilities including pollution control equip-
ment and an approximately 9 MW turbogenerator;
(f) A town-site with housing for about 1,000 people;
(g) Technical assistance for:
(i) Engineering and construction supervision;
(ii) Training;
(iii) Operational and management assistance.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:
US$ Million
Local    Foreign     Total
Civil Works and Land              33.1        -        33.1
Machinery and Equipment            14.2     46.8       61.0
Inland Freight & Insurance         3.1        -         3.1
Erection & Construction
Overhead                         6.4       6.3       12.7
Engineering                         1.5      6.2        7.7
Total plant                  58.3      59.3      117.6
Townsite                            2.5       -         2.5
Working Capital                    10.3      1.3        11.6
Pre-operating Expenses              2.1       -         2.1
Training & Management Asst.         -        1.4        1.4
Sub total                    73.2      62.0      135.2
Contingency and Escalation        37.3      12.7       50.0
Total Project Cost          110.5      74.7      185.2
Interest during Construction       7.8       7.0       14.8
Total Financing Required    118.3      81.7      200.0
Financing Plan:
TL          US$
Million      Million      %
Equity
- SEKA/Government                 1,280     80.0       40
Long-term Debt
- IBRD                            1,120     70.0       35
- DYB                              800      50.0       25
Sub-total                 1,920    120.0        60
Total Financing           3,200    200.0       100



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Estimated
Disbursements:                                     Fiscal Year
(US$ Million)
1977      1978       1979      1980
20.0      24.0       23.0       3.0
Procurement          For equipment and machinery financed by the Bank, inter-
Arrangements:      national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank's
guidelines, except items estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent which may be procured under local
procedures. A margin of preference of 15 percent or the
applicable duty, whichever is lower, will be provided to
local manufacturers under ICB. Contracts for items to be
financed from local funds will be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding in accordance with local pro-
cedures.
Consultants:         Sandwell & Co., Vancouver, Canada, have been selected to
carry out design, engineering, procurement, supervision of
construction, training, management and operational assist-
ance. About 1,600 man-months are provided under the con-
tract for engineering and 200 man-months for training.
Economic Rate
of Return:         16 percent.
Appraisal Report:    No. 1046-TU, dated April 30, 1976.






2 53                                               35'                      40.
B U L G A R IA                      B I a c k          5 e a
Edire  Firbarell                    Inebolu  Sinop                               U.  S  S.  R.
Zonguldak  ary i  Kur                               pa
K       CrGsuKEfoI  U        Samsun
BsBaikesirm woo  supy ro  
:   MoJor foresfed oreos   oso  resl
0'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
Mclit   rra4' eineaul nd  Seae                              BALIESI   NESRN        PROJECT
*  doBolkesirrwod sprnplaroea ty~s                                 ~   ~  ~             !    t
0 ASdeni wofA dem  frs upply 0o area t/t.r/                          \/ 
Mo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rinc                   ross)Jzu >r        t 
Mrudwars                                                       PO e                         IRCANI,)
-.- Site ntof Blkesirneworilpoe ct        Jj                   -                           9 <   r
Railways  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ , ROMANIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ms  a
Rivers C             k e                                       2  BUlARI
JnzS ton ya                       8/a          l   r   
K IL O ME TERE                     /                       $    vt  L  T U  R  K E y  /  S_ 
MILES      0                       3S'     / 8l labl           CREE  cye---  IYRIA  )_RQ 
30                                  HHsihHf,ur-                          .  



