Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14613-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
BIELSKO-BIATLA WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
NAY 3, 1996
Agriculture & Urban Development Operations Division
Central Europe Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 1, 1996)
Currency Unit=New Polish Zloty (PLN)
US$1 = 2.549 PLN
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Polish Zlotys per US$
1991       1992       1993        1994      June '95    July '95    Dec. '95   March '96
10,576     13,626     18,115     22,723      2.3446*     2.3652      2.5098      2.549
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AQUA    -   Municipal Company AQUA S.A. of Bielsko-Biala
BOP   -   Balance of Payments
EU    -   European Union
GDP   -   Gross Domestic Product
IBRD    -   International Bank for Reconstruction & Development
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
IDA    -   International Development Association
IS   -   International Shopping
LIBOR    -   London Inter Bank Offered Rate
MCP   -   Municipal Credit Program
NCB    -   National Competitive Bidding
NFEP   -   National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water
Management
NGO    -   Non-governmental Organization
NS   -   National Shopping
PIID    -   Project Information and Implementation Document
PIM    -   Project Implementation Manager
PIU    -   Project Implementation Unit
PSP   -   Private Sector Privatization
SA    -   Special Account
SW    -   Small Works
SOE   -   Statement of Expenditure
TA    -   Technical Assistance
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
Currency redenominated January 1, 1995; 10,000 old zlotys - I new zloty.



REPUBLIC OF POLAND
BIELSKO-BIALA WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
CONTENTS
Loan and Project Summary   ............................................                                                                    i
PART  I.  BACKGROUND   ............................................    1
A.  Country Context  ...........................................    1
B.  Sectoral Context   ...........................................    I
Existing Situation   ........................................    1
The Challenge Ahead  ......................................    1
Main Areas of Refonn Toward Sector Strengthening    ..................   2
Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy   ..............................    5
PART  II.  THE  PROJECT   ............................................    6
A. Introduction .........................                                                                                      6
B.  Objectives   ................................................    6
C. Description .........................                                                                                       7
D. Cost                  ........................................                                                              8
E. Financing ................................................ 8
PART  III.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ................................                                                                  10
A.  Implementation Schedule  .....................................    10
B.  Implementation Management ...................................                                                             10
C.  Performance Agreement   .....................................    11
D. Procurement .............................................  12
E. Disbursements ............................................  14
F.  Environmental Impact  .......................................    15
G.  Accounts and Audits ........................................    16
H. Supervision and Monitoring ...................................  16
PART IV. FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT  .................................   17
PART V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................... 18
A. Benefits .................................                                                                                18
B. Net Present Value . ................................. 19
C. Affordability .................................                                                                           19
D. Risks ................................  20
PART VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....                                                                  ...........  21



TABLES
Table 2.1: Summary of Project Cost ......................................  9
Table 2.2: Summary Financing Plan ......................................  9
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements ....................................  12
Table 3.2: Summary of Disbursements ...................................  15
Table 3.3: Supervision Requirement .....................................  16
Table 4.1: Average Yearly Water and Wastewater Tariffs  .......................  17
PROJECT INFORMATION AND IMPLEMENTATION DOCUMENT (PID)
Annex A: Assessment of Present Situation, Issues and Constraints, Need for Action
Annex B: Detailed Project Description
Annex C: Outlines of Terms of Reference for Institutional Strengtiening and Water and Sewer
System Rehabilitation Program
Annex D: Project Cost & Investment Schedule
Annex E: Polish National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management
Annex F: Agreement between AQUA and Municipal Government and Draft Performance Agreement
Annex G: Procurement Plan
Annex H: Disbursements
Annex I:  Agreement between AQUA and Voivodship Environmental Department
Annex J:  Monitoring Indicators
Annex K: Financial Projections and Model Assumptions
Annex L: Net Present Value
Annex M: Affordability
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Bielsko-Biala in
March/April 1995, comprising Messrs. Walter Stottmann (Water and Sanitation Adviser, Mission
Leader), Brian S. Smith (Senior Financial Analyst) and Piotr Wilczynski (Senior Environmental
Specialist). Mr. Sumeet Thakur (Financial Analyst) provided assistance in the cost calculation.
Messrs. James Hicks (TWURD) and Guillermo Yepes (TWUWS) were the peer reviewers. Mmnes.
Margret Thalwitz and Jane Loos are the acting Managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively.



REPUBLIC OF POLAND
BIELSKO-BIALA WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:                Municipal Company AQUA S.A. of Bielsko-Biala (AQUA)
Guarantor:               Republic of Poland
Implementing Agency:     AQUA
Beneficiary:             not applicable
Poverty Category:        not applicable
Amount:                  US$12 million and DEM 13.2 million
Terms:                   Payable in seventeen years, including five years of grace at the Bank's
standard LIBOR-based interest rates for two tranche, US$ and DEM,
single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:         not applicable
Financing Plan:          See para. 2.7
Net Present Value:       US$31.5 million
Staff Appraisal Report:   14613-POL
Map:                     IBRD 27829
Project ID Number:       8595






POLAND
BIELSKO-BIALA WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PART I. BACKGROUND
A. COUNTRY CONTEXT
1.1      Poland's economy continues to perform well. According to preliminary estimates, GDP grew
by some 5.5 percent in 1994 (following a 3.8 percent increase in 1993), and is expected to expand by 5
percent this year. The growth was largely driven by strong export performance (24 percent on a BOP
basis) and by sustained investment growth (6 percent increase in fixed capital formation). Due to the
excellent external performance, the trade deficit was less than US$840 million (an improvement of about
US$1.5 billion from 1993), resulting in a current account deficit of about 0.8 percent of GDP in 1994.
Consequently, net international reserves of the banking system remained at comfortable levels (about
seven months of imports) even after the completion of the debt and debt service reduction operation in
late 1994. The budget deficit was kept under control in 1994 at about 2.8 percent of GDP. Inflation has
continued to decline slowly; the year-end inflation rate at slightly below 30 percent remained well above
the govermment's originally planned target of 24 percent. Unemployment remains high in comparison
with other countries of Central Europe; it stood at about 16 percent at the end of 1994.
1.2      Continued economic improvement, with control over inflation and a stable or appreciating
currency, will have important consequences for the Municipal Water and Wastewater project. Better
economic conditions and improved incomes will help the utility's customers, both households and
industrial users, cover the costs of water and wastewater services.
B. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Existing Situation
1.3      Almost all of the Polish population living in urban areas receives public water and sewerage
services. In many places, however, the quality and reliability of service is deficient and facilities are in
need of rehabilitation and improvement. Particularly pressing is the need to improve and expand
wastewater treatment to clean up Poland's heavily polluted water resources. At present Polish water and
wastewater enterprises are generally weak insdtutions with large potential for efficiency gains in
management and operation.
The Challenge Ahead
1.4      Over the foreseeable future, Poland's water and wastewater enterprises must mobilize large
financial resources to:
conserve the achievements of the past by rehabilitating and replacing aging water and
wastewater infrastructure;
expand and improve present service levels and the quality of the water offered to the
public;



- 2 -
* upgrade and expand wastewater treatment to clean up the country's water resources; and
modernize and improve the efficiency of utility management and operation.
1.5       Mobilizing resources to satisfy all investment needs in the sector will be a difficult task and
require a sustained effort for a long time to come. Optimizing resource mobilization and making the best
possible use of these resources requires efficient administration and operation of water and wastewater
enterprises; improved resource mobilization from all sources, particularly from service beneficiaries; and
prudent investment decisions to reserve scarce resources for least cost and high priority investments.
1.6       The Local Self Government Act of March 1990 transferred responsibility for water and
wastewater services to municipal (gmina) governments. With the transfer of assets and the freedom to
reorganize institutional structures, local governments and their water and wastewater enterprises also have
acquired the responsibility for improving and expanding services and, as traditional central government
subsidies have been eliminated, raising resources for funding capital investments as well as maintenance
and operating costs. The decentralization reforms are providing a unique opportunity to introduce new,
more efficient institutional structures and policies on the local level for the provision of water and
wastewater services. Many progressive local governments and enterprise managers have launched
important initiatives in the right direction-corporatization of water and wastewater enterprises and tariff
adjustments towards full cost recovery.
Main Areas of Reform Toward Sector Strengthening
1.7       The Bank's water and wastewater sector study proposes a comprehensive program of sector
reform. The following reform measures identified in the sector study are considered key to creating
strong water and wastewater institutions capable of providing good services at an affordable cost.
1.8       Transfer municipal water and wastewater enterprises into autonomous commercially rum
utilities under the regulatory control of local government. Following decentralization of municipal
services, a number of local governments such as the Bielsko-Biala municipality, have made significant
advances in giving their enterprises the status of limited liability or even joint stock companies; yet many
others still withhold the autonomous and commercial status their enterprises need to function effectively.
One important task to tackle by enterprise management and local government is to define more clearly
the local government-utility relationship in mutually agreed multi-year performance contracts and business
plans which formalize the obligations and responsibilities of both parties and provide utilities with the
freedom to act like commercial enterprises. One of the major goals of the proposed project is to enhance
utility autonomy.
1.9      Improve performance and effciency of municipal water and wastewater enterprises
through well focused technical assistance programs. Large changes in the attitude and knowledge of
management and staff will be necessary to convert present enterprises into effective utilities. These
changes, beginning with redefinition and clarification of the local government-utility relationship and
assumption of a utility business attitude requires determined and sustained efforts to strengthen utility
management, administration, operation and financial performance through: organizational restructuring;
adoption of modern utility management practices and systems; increased focus on maintenance and
operational efficiency, including demand management and leak reduction; adoption of corporate planning
principles based on multi-year business and investment plans; strengthening financial performance by
introducing appropriate tariff levels and structures; and increased consumer orientation and services. To
bring about utility reorganization and strengthening, assistance from qualified Western utilities and
consulting firms will be essential, at least initially. 'Twinning' arrangements on a commercial, success



- 3 -
dependent basis between Polish and foreign successful utilities might be a good vehicle for transfer of
know-how, management and operational systems. These foreign led assistance programs should eventually
lead to the development of a strong domestic technical assistance capacity.
1.10      Promote private sector participation (PSP).  Growing awareness of the often poor
performance of state-run utilities and the realization that public funds alone cannot meet the large
investment needs of the sector has led to great interest in involving the private sector in enterprise
management and investment financing. Over the last four years, PSP schemes have been pursued
vigorously by foreign and local interests. Several preliminary agreements have been concluded, but only
one, the joint venture SAUR-local government contract in Gdansk, has come to fruition. All others have
not materialized for a number of reasons, including the perception of being too expensive, mistrust on
both sides, and sole-source negotiations leading to suspicions of impropriety. After an initial push, the
climate for PSP in Poland's water and wastewater sector has cooled, as even the more entrepreneurial
utility managers and local governments are reluctant to enter into new deals. Despite this temporary lull,
Poland's water and wastewater sector offers favorable conditions for large-scale PSP in the future.
Conclusion of more PSP arrangements will depend, however, on an environment of trust developing
between private sector operators/investors, local governments and enterprises, with government
encouragement. Above all, local governments need to better understand and become more comfortable
with the many ways that private sector entry could accelerate improvement of services and bring
efficiency gains. Expert independent advice is needed to structure arrangements that are perceived as
being fair and advantageous to both parties. Competition in acquiring PSP and transparency of the
negotiating process may be a way to counteract negative public opinion. The spread of PSP would be
accelerated with the development of a local capacity to offer such services. The govermnent and the
international cooperation community can play an important role in encouraging private sector entry by
providing advice and encouragement to the sector community and should support specific PSP pilot
opportunities. The proposed project, and other "first batch" lending operations in the sector, are expected
to serve as demonstration projects that will help foster an enabling environment for future private sector
participation.
1.11      Create a suitable facility for financing utility investments. The speed with which Polish
water and wastewater utilities can begin to tackle the large investrnents needed depends on their capacity
to mobilize financial resources from their own cash flow, environmental grants, private equity and
borrowing. In countries with established financial markets, utilities without any initial debt like those in
Poland would be able to obtain long-term loans at competitive rates from commercial banks, or be able
to tap securities markets by issuing equity or bonds. In the short term, however, Poland's incipient
financial markets are not geared to respond to the sector's long term financing needs and other municipal
borrowing requirements and direct lending will be required. To overcome the lack of appropriate credit
facilities, the government with the support of the Bank and other bilateral cooperation institudons is
working on the creation of a Municipal Credit Program'. The purpose of the MCP will be to help utilides
and local governments access long-term finance and establish their credit record until the domestic
financial sector is capable of providing credit for municipal infrastructure. However, it will take several
years for the program to become fully operational and able to meet the needs of large cides.
1.12      Introduce appropriate cost recovery and pricing policies. Full recovery of costs, including
operation, maintenance, depreciadon, finance charges, and opportunity cost on invested equity from user
charges should become the norm. Over the past few years many Polish water and wastewater enterprises
have already instituted major tariff increases for water and wastewater, and thereby raised their financial
1/ See PID dated September 1994 on the proposed Poland Municipal Development Project.



- 4 -
capacity close to full cost recovery levels. The city of Bielsko-Biala and others are setting impressive
examples. Many Polish cities have the potential to reach full cost recovery rates through gradual and
sustained increases without surpassing people's willingness and capacity to pay.
1.13      Improve investment planning, evaluation and selection.   Investment planning and
implementation in the past has been dominated by technical imperatives, often without sufficient concern
for cost-effectiveness and economic considerations. Better investment selection and evaluation policies
and processes must be introduced to ensure that the resources available are spent in the most cost-effective
manner. Making better use of existing systems, setting priorities among investment choices, least-cost
staging and life cycle costing and affordability considerations must become the guiding principles in
selecting investments. Before contemplating investments in new capacity, utilities may derive savings by
considering instead investments in such areas as the reduction of system leakage and water consumption
combined with operational improvement programs aimed at reducing energy and other input costs. The
present practice of looking at single component investments such as wastewater treatment plants separate
from of a utility's other investment needs and overall financial considerations should be replaced with an
approach that takes a more comprehensive and longer term view of a utility's development objectives,
investment needs and financial capacity. Master plans and feasibility studies which combine technical,
financial, institutional and economic considerations should become the basis for defining least-cost and
affordable multi-year investment plans.
1.14      Introduce more cost-effective water management policies.  Present effluent quality
standards from municipal wastewater treatment plants are unnecessarily strict and, in many cases, exceed
EU standards. Polish standards for wastewater treatment require biological treatment today and plan to
introduce nutrient removal by the year 2000. For most Polish utilities, providing simple biological
treatment to all wastewater is technically and financially a difficult task. Adding nutrient removal by the
year 2000 is unaffordable for most utilities, as tariffs would have to increase to levels which utility
customers in all likelihood would be unable to pay. The costs associated with advanced treatment far
exceed the benefits from improved river water quality, especially when considering the opportunity cost
of other higher priority investments-improving the quality of water supply services, for example-that
may have to be curtailed.
1.15      A more rational solution to raising water quality and effluent standards would be to adopt EU
or similar standards and allow water and wastewater utilities to comply in a phased manner with
affordability and economic return as decision variables. This principle of phasing and setting clear
priorities would be in agreement with the recommendation of European governments taken at their
meeting in Luceme, Switzerland in 1993. Another consideration for optimizing the use of scarce
resources would be to base resource allocation decisions on a river basin view that identifies priority
investment opportunities to optimize resource use in terms of ambient water quality improvements. This
should be reflected in the resource allocation policies of national, regional and municipal environmental
funds which by providing significant amounts of concessional funds (over US$500 million in 1993 for all
environmental investments) are an important driving force for investments in wastewater treatnient.
1.16      In the original design of the country's Water Law, first proposed in 1992, but not yet passed,
regional water resources authorities modeled after the French Agence du Basin arrangement, were to
assume an important role in allocating resources in accordance with priority.  Recent political
developments appear to have stalled this initiative, as control over the allocation of resources has been
increasingly devolved to the country's 48 regional administrations (Voivodships) and municipalities. The
dilution of resource allocation authority may lead to investment decisions with insufficient consideration



of river basin strategy and priority. While this remains an unresolved issue, it does not affect any
investment decisions for the proposed project.
1.17      Strengthen utility business support. In the past, goods and services required by water and
wastewater utilities have been provided by state-owned engineering and design offices, equipment
manufacturers and civil works contractors. Not directly accountable to utilities, the performance of these
enterprises often was deficient in terms of product quality offered. To assist in the development of an
efficient utility support industry capable of providing quality services and goods at a competitive price,
many of these entities are in the process of privatization. This process can be sped up if water and
wastewater utilities procure goods and services on the basis of competition, require internationally
acceptable technical and performance specifications and conclude contracts that provide effective remedies
for poor performance.
Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy
.18      Assistance to Poland's municipal water and wastewater sector is part of the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. The proposed program for Bank involvement in the sector aims at supporting
reforms outlined above. It proposes four different specific activities planned for the next three years:
direct lending operations with the municipal water and wastewater utilities in Bielsko-
Biala, Wroclaw, Krakow and Bydgoszcz. This first batch of projects is aimed at
assisting local governments and water and wastewater enterprises in these cities to
introduce many of the reforms outlined above and to provide benchmark examples for the
sector in Poland.
a direct lending operation for water and wastewater in Warsaw. Consultants financed
under a US$1.5 million grant from EU (PHARE) have been engaged to prepare the
project and Board presentation in FY98 is possible. A key element of project preparation
is defining the Warsaw water and wastewater utility's future institutional status, with
private sector participation in the management of the company being an option
considered. Anticipating the large investment needs for Warsaw, cofinancing by private
investors and use of the Bank's guarantee instrument would be pursued.
smaller scale municipal water and wastewater projects included under the Municipal
Development Project which is under preparation; wastewater investments for the project
is under way.
operations in support of innovative private sector participation; contacts are being
established with several interested municipal govermnents.
1.19      These projects are designed to support, on the sector level, many of the elements of the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy: decentralization, public sector strengthening, fiscal responsibility,
environmental protection and private sector participation. The projects are expected to have an important
demonstration effect for the future development of the water and wastewater utilities in Poland and in
other countries of Central and Eastern Europe.



PART II. THE PROJECT
A. INTRODUCTION
2.1       The proposed project would provide support for the water and wastewater enterprise in
Bielsko-Biala (AQUA), a city of about 190,000 people in the south of the country. It is the first such
project proposed under the Bank's sector assistance strategy. The project addresses AQUA's key
development and investment needs: rehabilitating and upgrading the quality and efficiency of water and
wastewater services, expanding wastewater treatment and improving management and operational
efficiency. AQUA is a joint stock company, majority owned by the municipal government. A major
goal of the project is to define more clearly the relationship between AQUA and the municipal
government in order to enhance the autonomy of utility management. The company has adjusted tariffs
significantly over the past four years and thereby has acquired the financial capacity to support major
investments. The attached Project Information and Implementation Document (PIID) provides in Annex
A a detailed description of Bielsko-Biala's present water and wastewater services, investment needs, and
an institutional and financial analysis.
2.2       The project has been prepared by the prospective borrower with the assistance of international
consultants financed by a bilateral grant. It was identified in late 1992 with feasibility studies initiated
in late 1993 and completed in September 1994. The project was preappraised in September/October 1994
and appraised in March/April 1995.
B. OBJEcrlvEs
2.3       The overall objective of the project is to strengthen the management and operations of AQUA,
upgrade water supply and wastewater collection services to improve the living standard and protect the
health of the people of Bielsko-Biala and expand wastewater treatment to contribute to the clean up of the
regions's water resources. Specific objectives include:
Regarding water supply
* improve the safety, reliability and quality of water supply services to the people of
Bielsko-Biala by upgrading the functioning of water treatment plants and the water
transmission and distribution network;
* improve the efficiency of water production, transmission and distribution systems, thereby
lowering operating costs through programs of plant and facility rehabilitation and repair,
operational improvements, unaccounted-for water control (present unaccounted -for water
is an unacceptably high 37 percent) and reduction of leakage from pipe networks and
demand management;
Regarding wastewater coHlection and treatnent
* improve the safety, reliability and efficiency of the sewer system (pipe networks and
pumping stations) by initiating programs of system rehabilitation and replacement and
inflow/infiltration reduction;



* reduce pollution of local surface water by initiating a program of combined sewer
overflow reduction;
* reduce pollutant emissions into the Biala River by providing full biological treatment to
all wastewater generated in the AQUA service area
Regarding utility management and operation
*  assist AQUA to improve its management and operations and strengthen its fiancial
capacity and commnercial orientation through a program of technical assistance and
training
2.4       The project and its objectives are consistent with the proposed sector strategy (para. 1.18) and
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on October 21, 1994. A municipal
water and wastewater project was specifically mentioned in the CAS. The project would support the CAS
objectives of financing investments in economic infrastructure at the local level and bring the benefits of
Bank-financed investments closer to local communities. It also would meet the CAS objective of
environmental improvement as the project would be instrumental in achieving improved quality of water
supply provided to the people of Bielsko-Biala and would reduce the amount of pollutants introduced into
the rivers downstream of the city. The project would foster the CAS objective of enviromnental
collaboration across municipal boundaries via the involvement of the National Fund for Environmental
Protection and Water Management (NFEP) as cofmancier and the regional voivodship authority for
environmental protection, both of whom have participated in the formulation of the project.
C. DEsCREMON
2.5       The project components supported by the Loan constitute the least-cost 1996-2002 investment
program, as follows (Annex B of the PIID presents a detailed project description and Annex C outline
terms of reference for the technical assistance programs):
A. Water Supply
A. 1   Expand/improve service to Zlote Lany area
A.2   Upgrade existing Wapienica, Szczyrk and Sola water treatment plants
A.3   Undertake a program of rehabilitating and improving efficiency of transmission-
pumping-storage-distribution system including programs of leak detection and repair
and water main rehabilitation/replacement
B. Wastewater
B. 1   Expand Wapienica and Industrial wastewater collectors
B.2   Expand Komorowice capacity by 30,000 m3/day and complete Wapienica (8,000
m3/day capacity) wastewater treatnent plants to provide primary and secondary
treatment



- 8 -
B.3   Undertake a program of rehabilitating and improving the efficiency of sewer system,
including programs for: sewer rehabilitation/replacement, infiltration/inflow
reduction, pumping station refurbishment and energy savings and combined sewer
overflow reduction
C. Technical Assistance and Training
C. 1   Institutional strengthening program to introduce/improve organizational structure, cost
accounting system, management information and control systems, tariff setting and
management, demand management, commercial operations, personnel management,
business planning and asset management (see outline terms of reference in Annex C
of the PID)
D. Engineering Design and Construction Supervision
D. 1   Identification, design and implementation of cost effective programs for water and
wastewater system rehabilitation and operations improvement financed under project
component A.3 and B.3 (see outline terms of reference in Annex C of the PIID)
D.2   Preparation of studies, final designs, tender documents, tendering and supervision of
construction for all investment components
D. Cosr
2.6       The total estimated cost is US$35.4 million, including contingencies, taxes and duties (see
Table 2.1). Estimated total base cost is US$31.5 million, with physical contingencies of US$3.2 million
(10 percent of base cost) and price contingencies of US$0.8 million (about 3 percent of base cost). The
estimated foreign exchange component is US$11.2 million or about 32 percent of total project cost.
Estimated taxes and duties are US$5.2 million, about 15 percent of total project cost. More detailed cost
information, including a schedule of annual investments is presented in Annex D of the PID.
E. FINANCING
2.7       Flnandng Plan. The summary financing plan for the project is presented in Table 2.2. An
IBRD LIBOR-based single currency loan in two tranches, US$12 million and DEM 13.2 million, is
proposed (about US$21.1 million equivalent, or 60 percent of total financing required). The Borrower
would be AQUA with the sovereign guarantee of the Government of Poland. The loan would finance 100
percent of the foreign exchange component of the investmnents and about 52 percent of the local
component excluding taxes and duties. The National Fund for Enviromnental Protection and Water
Management (NFEP) would cofinance US$7.0 million equivalent in local currency. AQUA would
contribute US$7.3 million equivalent, about 21 percent of total project cost from its cash generation.
Components A. 1 and B. 1 of the project, US$4.5 million or 13 percent of total project cost, would not
be financed by the Bank, as AQUA prefers to execute them under reserved procurement.



- 9 -
Table 2.1: Summary of Project Cost
Old Zloty billion             USS million
% Foreign    % Total
Local  Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Base Costs
A. Water Supply
1. Transmission/Distrib.  20        6       26        0.82     0.23    1.05      22          3
2. Production             22        8       30         0.89    0.32    1.21      26           4
3. Rehab./Ops. Improv.   114       34      148         4.65     1.37    6.03     23          19
Subtotal           156      47      203         6.36     1.93    8.28     23          26
B. Wastewater
1. Collection             62       11      73         2.51     0.46    2.97      15          9
2. Treatment              196      97      293         8.01     3.94   11.95     33          38
3. Rehab./Ops. lmprov.    61       10       71         2.48    0.42    2.89      14           9
Subtotal           318     118      436        13.00     4.82   17.82     27          57
C. Technical Assistance & Training
1. Mgmt./Admin.            7       16      22         0.27     0.64    0.92      70           3
Subtotal            7       16       22         0.27     0.64    0.92     70           3
D. Engineering Services
1. Water/Wwtr Opertions    16      38       54        a.65      1.54    2.19     70          7
2. Design & Supervision   34       20       55         1.41     0.84    2.24     37           7
Subtotal            50      58      109         2.06     2.37    4.43     54          14
Total Baseline Costs        531      239      770       21.69      9.76   31.45     31         100
Physical Contingencies    53       24       77         2.17    0.98    3.15      31          10
Price Contingencies IV   201       87      288         0.34    0.45    0.79      57           3
Total Project Cosu          785      350    1.135       24.20    11.19   35.38      32        113
a - Domestic inflation is expected to escalate a the folowing rates: 1996 - 18%; 1997 - 12%; 1998 - 10%; 1999 - 8%;
2000-2002 - 6%.
Foreign inflation is expected to escalate at the rte of 2.4 per anrn 1996-2002.
Table 2.2: Suimary Umlnnng Plan
(US$ mion)
MBRD             AQUA              NFEP             TOWa        L-Oca
Amount   %       Amount   %        Amount   %       Aot             (E%.  Duties &
Taxes)   Taxes
A. Water Supply
1. Transmission/Distrib.    -   -        1.15  100.0       -      -         1.15    3.2    0.70     0.19
2. Production           1.06   79.5      0.27   20.5       -      -         1.33    3.8    0.80     0.16
3. Rehab./Ops. Improv.    5.62   79.8     1.43   20.2      -      -         7.05   19.9    4.19     1.22
Subtotal          6.68   70.1       2.85   39.9       -      -        9.53   26.9    5.69      1.57
B. Wastewater
1. Collection           *       *        3.31  100.0       -      -         3.31    9.4    2.34     0.45
2. Treatment            6.16   46.8      0.00    -         7.00  53.2      13.15   37.2    6.58     2.11
3. Rehab./Ops. Improv.    2.67   80.2    0.66   19.8       -      -         3.34    9.4    2.29     0.54
Subtotal          8.83   44.6       3.97   20.1      7.00  35.3      19.80   56.0   11.22      3.11
C. Technical Assistance and Training
1. Mgmt./Admin.         0.94   90.9      0.09    9.1       -      -         1.03    2.9    0.21     0.09
D. Engineering Services
1. Water/Wastewtr Ops.    2.26   91.3    0.21    8.7       -      -         2.47    7.0    0.51     0.21
2. Design & Supervision    2.38   93.5   0.17    6.5       -                2.55    7.2    1.42     0.17
Subtotal          4.64   92.4       0.38    7.6       .      -        5.02   14.2    1.93     0.38
Total Disbursement        21.09   59.6      7.30   20.6       7.00  19.8      35.33  100.0   19.04     5.16



- 10-
2.8       Cofinandng. The NFEP has agreed to provide US$7.0 million equivalent to cofinance
investments for the Komorowice and Wapienica wastewater treatment plants. The terms of the loans are:
17 years maturity, 5.5 years grace and 8 percent fixed interest. These funds will be disbursed pari passu
with Bank funds for the cofmanced wastewater treatment plants. Effectiveness of the AQUA-NFEP
agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan. Annex E presents information about
NFEP.
2.9       Single Currency Loan. AQUA meets the SCL eligibility criteria and the proposed loan falls
within the 50 percent volume guideline for Poland under the expanded SCL program. AQUA has
indicated it chose a two-tranche (DEM and US$) SCL to facilitate loan management and servicing. The
ability to readily determine loan balances during disbursement and repayment was cited by AQUA as an
advantage of the chosen SCL, and the borrower anticipates better cash flow planning and management
of the investment process as a result. AQUA expects the two currencies selected would decrease its
foreign exchange risk and that the DEM and USS will strongly influence the value of its Polish zloty
revenue. AQUA also believes easy access to DEM and USS in the local market would facilitate loan
repayment. AQUA selected a LIBOR-based interest rate to retain standard country terms (seventeen years
repayment with five years grace). To limit exposure to increases in LIBOR, AQUA is considering
obtaining an interest rate hedge.
PART m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. IMLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.1      The project would be implemented during the seven year span 1996-2002. As the Bank is
just beginning to finance water and wastewater projects in the Region, no comparators exist to judge
implementation periods. Although the proposed seven year implementation period is below the Bankwide
average of eight years for water and wastewater projects, the accelerated schedule is considered feasible
given the technical competence, commitment and financial soundness of the Borrower.
B. IMPLEMENTATION MANAGEMENT
3.2       Project Implementation Manager/Unit.  AQUA has appointed a full-time Project
Implementation Manager (PIM) with overall responsibility for all aspects of project implementation and
reporting directly to the General Manager. The PIM would lead a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
made up of individuals (engineers, accountants, support staff) drawn from the existing company structure.
The PIU would be assisted by expert consultants to carry out final designs and bidding documents and
supervise construction. One of the project objectives is the reorganization of the utility's institutional
structure. Placement of the PIU in AQUA's future organizational structure would be considered carefully
to ensure the effectiveness of this office, but also to integrate project management into the company's
routine operation and command stream. AQUA agreed that the PIU headed by a full time qualified
Project Implementation Manager (PIM) satisfactory to the Bank would be maintained throughout the
project.
3.3       Flnal Design, Procurement and Supervision of Construction. Designs exist for all project
components, but revisions are needed to reflect changes in planning parameters and bring technical
specifications to international quality standards. Bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank need to be



- I1 -
prepared. AQUA has agreed to adhere to appropriate international standards regarding the preparation
of final designs and bidding documents and supervision of construction and, assisted by qualified
consultants satisfactory to the Bank, will design project components other than the initial investments (see
para. 3.4), prepare bidding documents and supervise construction. AQUA has agreed that the consultants
would be appointed by June 30, 1996.
3.4       Preparation of Designs and Bidding Documents for Initial (1996) Investment
Components. Investments are to start in the second half of 1996. With the approval of the Bank,
consultants have been engaged to prepare final designs and bidding documents for initial project
components--the Komorowice and Wapienica wastewater treatment plants and the protection dam at the
Wapienica water treatment plant. This contract (about US$600,000) would be eligible for retroactive
Bank financing. Designs and bidding documents for the Komorowice and Wapienica wastewater
treatment plants and the protection dam at Wapienica are expected to be completed by mid-May 1996.
3.5       Operational Improvement and Technical Assistance Consultants. The project includes
consultancies for: (a) institutional reorganization and strengthening (Component C); and (b) the design
of a program for water and wastewater network rehabilitation and efficiency improvements (Component
D. 1). To ensure AQUA's ownership of and commitment to the recommendations developed by external
consultants, the terms of reference emphasize the need for close integration of the consultants with the
relevant departments and individuals of AQUA. The main task of the consultants will be providing
expertise currently not available in Poland and guiding and facilitating work carried out largely by AQUA
staff and the consultant team's Polish experts. An explicit objective of the consultant is to transfer know-
how to utility personnel through on-the-job training and participation in decision making. Outline terms
of reference for the technical assistance components are presented in Annex F of the PUD. AQUA has
agreed to engage qualified consultants satisfactory to the Bank for the operational improvement program
(Component D. 1) by July 31, 1996, and for the technical assistance program (Component C) by
December 31, 1996.
3.6       Budget based investments. Specific investments under the water and wastewater systems
rehabilitation and operations improvement programs (Components A.3 and B.3) would be determined and
designed during project execution with the assistance of consultants under Component D. 1 of the project.
Annually (by June 30 of each year) AQUA would present to the Bank a plan that includes: a description,
justification, estimated costs and procurement arrangements for investments to be undertaken in the next
year. AQUA has agreed to adhere to this requirement.
C. PERFoRMANcE AGREEmENT
3.7       While AQUA has a legally autonomous status as a joint stock company, ultimnate power is
held by local government by virtue of majority ownership. A key condition to the success of the project
is therefore full agreement between the borrower and the municipal government regarding project
objectives, investments, institutional reforms and financial matters, particularly the authorization of tariff
increases required to maintain the financial viability of the borrower and the project. AQUA and the
municipal government have concluded an agreement in which the municipal council authorizes AQUA
to proceed with the project. In addition to this agreement, AQUA and the municipal government have
entered into a performance agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, that includes for 1996-2000 annual targets
for AQUA's management, operations and financial performance. A key element of the performance
agreement is a tariff adjustment clause that reflects the tariff increases projected to be needed over the



- 12 -
duration of the project. A binding performance agreement , satisfactory to the Bank, between AQUA
and the municipal government has been concluded. (Annex F of the PIID).
D. PROCUREMENT
3.8       The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 3.1. A procurement plan is presented in Annex G of the PID. AQUA will finance the expansion
of the Zloty Lany water system and the completion of wastewater collectors - costing approximately
US$4.5 million, about 13 percent of total project cost - from its own sources. These works will be
procured by AQUA in accordance with applicable Polish procurement regulations. Procurement of the
remaining project components will be in accordance with Bank guidelines. To the extent practical, items
to be procured will be grouped into major packages to encourage competitive bidding and to ensure
standardization. Procurement will be undertaken in the manner described below:
Table 3.1: Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
ICB      NCB    Other b/  N.B.F.       Total
A. Supply/Install c       13.2                                     13.2
(6.3)                                    (6.3)
B. Civil Works                       3.0     1.7        2.5         7.2
(2.2)    (1.2)     (- )       (3.4)
C. Goods                  5.0                2.1        2.1         9.2
(4.3)             (1 .8)     (  )        (6.1l)
D. Consultants/Engineers d/   -      -       5.8         -          5.8
(5.3)                 (5.3)
Total           18.2       3.0     9.6        4.6        35.4
(10.8)     (2.1)    (8.2)     (- )       (21.1)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
a - Financed in total by AQUA.
b - International and National Shopping for Goods; Small Works Contracts.
c - Cofinanced with NFEP
d - Procured according to "Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World
Bank as Executing Agency' (Washington, DC, August 1981).
Supply/Install Contracts for the Komorowice and Wapienica Wastewater Treatment Plants
3.9       The Komorowice and Wapienica wastewater treatment plants - costing approximately US$13.2
million, (about 37 percent of project cost) - will be constructed under two separate supply and install
contracts procured under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995). Due to the
complexity and large cost there will be a prequalification for the Komorwice Plant. No prequalification
will be required for the Wapienica Plant. In the evaluation and comparison of bids for equipment
procured under the supply/installation contract, domestic manufacturers will be granted a 15 percent



- 13 -
margin of preference or the relevant duty - whichever is lower - in accordance with the industrial formula
of the Bank guidelines.
Rehabilitation/Operational Improvement Programs
3.10      Project components other than the wastewater treatment plants, technical assistance, and
engineering services - costing approximately US$11.8 million (roughly 33 percent of the total system
cost) - involve programs for the rehabilitation and operations improvements of the water and sewer
system. Specific investment interventions under these programs will be identified during project
implementation with the assistance of expert consultants. Equipment needs and associated works will
involve a multitude of smaller, diverse investments. This will include equipment for water and
wastewater treatment plants, water and wastewater pipes and related accessories, pumps and electrical
equipment, spare parts and tools, water meters and so on. These items will be procured on an as-needed
basis over several years. In general, procurement will be separate for goods and civil works, although
in some cases smaller supply/install contracts may be employed. To the extent practical these purchases
will be grouped into sizable bid packages, enhancing competition and encouraging economy of scale
savings. AQUA will propose to the Bank by September of each year an investment plan and various
procurement 'packages' and methods (para. 3.6) for approval prior to implementation. None of the
contracts under the rehabilitation and operational improvement program require prequalification.
3.11      Equipment and Materials - US$7.1 million total cost - will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement
Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (january 1995). In the evaluation and comparison of bids for
equipment and materials, domestic manufacturers will be granted a 15 percent margin of preference or
the relevant duty -whichever is lower - in accordance with Bank guidelines. The exceptions for ICB
procurement will be as follows:
*  International Shopping (IS): contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost less
than US$300,000 equivalent per package, not to exceed an aggregate amount of US$1.0
million equivalent, will be awarded under International Shopping procedures, based on
comparing price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers from at least
two different countries.
*  National Shopping (NS): sundry items in smnall quantities not exceeding US$50,000
equivalent per package up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million equivalent will be
procured through prudent local shopping according to procedures acceptable to the Bank
by comparing prices obtained from three different potential suppliers.
3.12      Civil Works - approximately US$4.7 mnillion total cost - will not attract international
contractors, because of the contracts' small size and the presence of a competitive domestic construction
industry. They will be procured as follows:
*  National Competitive Bidding (NCB): Contracts for the rehabilitation and improvement
of plants and pipelines, estimated to cost less than US$1 million, not to exceed an
aggregate amount of US$3 million equivalent, will be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of Bank Guidelines.
* Small Works (SW): Works estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or less per contract,
and not to exceed US$2.0 million in the aggregate would be procured under lump sum,



- 14 -
fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract.
Technical Assistance/Training/Engineering Services
3.13      The Project would include contracts for institutional strengthening and assistance in the
rehabilitation and operations improvement of the water and wastewater system. Qualified short-listed
firms would be invited to submit proposals for these consultant services in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants". Engineering services for final design and bidding documents
for initial investments have already been contracted and will be eligible for retroactive Bank financing
(see para. 3.4). Engineering services for final designs, procurement and construction supervision of
remaining project investments would be provided by consultants with qualifications, experience and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  These consultants would be contracted according to Bank
guidelines. Expenditures for external training (travel and per diem expenses, course fees, etc...) for
AQUA personnel would be financed after Bank approval of an application stating the nature, purpose and
beneficiary of such training.
Procurement Management
3.14      No problems are foreseen in AQUA's ability to implement Bank procurement procedures,
since international consultants experienced with Bank procurement would assist AQUA throughout the
procurement process and in the supervision of construction for all project components. AQUA would
use Bank standard bidding documents for all ICB procurement and supply and install contracts, and other
relevant documents.  The Government has issued public procurement regulations emphasizing a
requirement for competitive procedures. Currently the Bank is preparing a Country Procurement Review.
Procurement Review
3.15      Bank will conduct a prior review of procurement packages for: (a) each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more, (b) the first two contracts for works estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more, and (c) each contract for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$500,000 or more, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 of Bank
Guidelines. Regarding the employment of consultants, the Bank will conduct a prior review of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts for
contracts with consulting firms to cost more than US$100,000 and for individual consultants to cost more
than US$50,000. Terms of reference will be reviewed for all consulting assignments as well as
amendments to existing contracts exceeding US$100,000 for the employment of consulting firms and
US$50,000 for the employment of individual consultants.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
3.16      For goods, the Bank loan would finance 100 percent of foreign and local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally. For civil works, the
loan would finance 70 percent of expenditures under Components A.2, A.3 and B.3, and 30 percent of



- 15 -
expenditures under Component B.2. For eligible consulting/engineering services, the loan would finance
90 percent of expenditures. A loan disbursement and allocation schedule is presented in Annex H of the
PIID.
3.17     To facilitate timely project implementation, AQUA would establish, maintain and operate,
under conditions acceptable to the Bank, two Special Accounts, one denominated in US$, the other in
DEM. Initially the allocations would be limited to US$500,000 for the US$ Special Account and DEM
800,000 for the DEM Special Account. When aggregate disbursements under the Loan equal or exceed
US$5.0 million equivalent, the allocations may be increased to US$1.0 million for the US$ Special
Account and DEM 1.5 million for the DEM Special Account by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. Replenishment applications would be submitted at least every three months and include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
3.18      Reimbursement of expenditures for contracts below US$500,000 equivalent for civil works
and US$300,000 equivalent for goods, would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs).
The documentation to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIM. The documentation
would be audited by independent auditors and made available for review by the Bank upon request.
Applications for withdrawals against contracts valued at more than the above thresholds would be fully
documented.
3.19     The loan would provide retroactive financing, not to exceed US$1.0 million equivalent for
engineering services (preparation of designs and bidding documents for initial investments, para. 3.4)
and works for the strengthening of the flood protection dam for the Wapienica water treatment plant
(Component A.2 of the project), for eligible payments made after August 1, 1995.
3.20     The project is expected to disburse fully over six years. The expected completion date of the
project is December 31, 2002. The closing date of the project would be June 30, 2003.
3.21     AQUA has agreed to adhere to the above disbursement and document review arrangements.
Table 3.2: Summary of Disbursements
(By Semester)
Fiscal Year       1997   j   1998       1999                  2001   |2002
Amt. Disbursed    2.1  3.9  3.9  2.5  2.5  1.8  1.1  1.0  1.0  0.7  0.6
Cumulative     2.1  6.0  9.9  12.4  14.9  16.7  17.8  18.8  19.8  20.5  21.1
F. ENvEoNmENTAL IMPACr
3.22     The Project is classified in Environnental Screening Category "B" requiring sub-project
environmental analysis, consistent with the Bank's guideline OD4.01. The analysis reveals the project
would generate significant environmental benefits with no negative impacts anticipated. Because all
construction would proceed on sites already in use, there are no resettlement issues. The proposed
investments in wastewater treatment are based on a phased plan of implementation with secondary
biological treatment provided under the project and nutrient removal requiring advanced treatment in a
next phase to be initiated after completion of this project. The Voivodship Environmental Department



- 16 -
in charge of issuing permits for the proposed wastewater treatment investments and AQUA have signed
an agreement on the phased approach, committing the Environmental Department to issue operating
permits for the Komorowice and Wapienica wastewater treatment plants, once they are in operation.
Annex I presents a copy of the agreement. AQUA has not received and does not anticipate to receive
any adverse public reaction to the proposed investments.
3.23      Bielsko-Biala is located in southern Poland in the Biala river valley. The main objective of
the project is to rehabilitate, expand and improve the functioning of Bielsko-Biala's water and wastewater
systemns. The project would not have any harmful effect on downstream riparians; on the contrary it
would reduce water use and the pollution load discharged. The project is unaffected by any riparian's
water use. The project therefore presents no issue in terns of Bank guideline OP/BP7.50.
G. ACCOUNTS AND AuDnTs
3.24      Accounting and financial management practices in AQUA are evolving. Financial statements
are prepared according to national standards and independently audited. Financial reports prepared by
AQUA do not allow identification of itemized costs by activity and a system of cost accounting to
facilitate business management is required. Improved financial performance reporting and more effective
management of funds would be provided by investments planned under the institutional strengthening
component (Component C).
3.25      The utility would establish and maintain its accounting system in accordance with sound and
internationally recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to the Bank to provide interim
financial reports and annual financial statements that reflect the financial performance and position of the
project and the utility, from the commencement of project execution. The periodic financial reports
would include a comparison of actual and projected costs for the current period and for the total project
to date. An auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to the Bank on the annual financial statements
would be provided within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The auditor's report would include
a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls, the reliability
of statements of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, and compliance with financial covenants.
The foregoing accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements would provide adequate and
timely information to the Bank for supervision of the project. AQUA has agreed to adhere to the above
stipulations regarding accounting and auditing.
H. SUPERVISION AND MONrrORING
3.26      Intensive supervision by the Bank would be required initially. The supervision effort is
expected to reduce as the borrower gains experience. On average, about twelve staff-weeks would be
sufficient to supervise the project, but more would be required in the early years (Table 3.3).
Supervision economies would be sought by relying on the Bank Resident Mission in Warsaw for in-field
consultations.
Table 3.3: Supervision Requirement
Fiscal Year    96        97         98        99        2000      01         02
StaffWeeks     2         18         14        12        8         6          4



- 17 -
3.27       By March 31 and September 30 of each year, the borrower would submit to the Bank semi-
annual reports on implementation progress during the preceding semester, including a summary of
implementation status as measured against the project implementation schedule, pro-forma financial
statements for the utility, project and the special accounts, progress in the implementation of investment
and technical assistance components, status of compliance with loan conditions and technical, institutional
and financial monitoring indicators. Monitoring indicators, presented in Annex J of the PIID, are targets
reflected in the performance agreement between the borrower and local government. Progress would be
evaluated by the Bank during its regular project supervision. By December 31, 1998, the borrower and
the Bank jointly would undertake a formal mid-term review of implementation progress and compliance
with loan conditions. Within six months of the loan closing date, the borrower would submit an
implementation completion report that includes a plan for future operation of the project. AQUA has
agreed to adhere to these reporting and review requirements.
PART IV. FINANCIAL ASSESSMENT
4.1        AQUA's sound financial position reflects competent management, responsible tariff policies
pursued by its municipal regulator, and a debt-free initial balance sheet. In the absence of debt service
charges, AQUA is able to generate substantial net cash, but would need continued tariff adjustments to
buttress its investment and borrowing capacity, while keeping control of recurrent costs. A 10-year
financial projection (see Annex K of the PlID) shows that with such tariff adjustments, AQUA could build
upon its present financial position with the proposed project and loan.
4.2        Positive factors in AQUA's financial outlook are the scope for labor productivity gains (a 7.5
percent reduction of staff through attrition is projected for the period 1996-2001) and savings in water
losses and energy use pursued under the project. Factors expected to burden the utility's costs include
likely increases in electricity rates and the incremental costs of improving wastewater treatment and sludge
management.
4.3       In preparation for investments to be made under the project, AQUA has begun to raise tariffs
substantially. Average tariffs for 1991-1995 are:
Table 4.1: Average Yearly Water and Wastewater Tariffs
(rate per in3)
1991         19M2         1993         1994         1995
Old   USS   Old   US$   Old   USS   Old   USS   Old   USS
ZlotS equlv. Zlot. equlv. Zloty  equiv. Zlotys equlv. Zotys equiv.
Water
Residential        950   .09  1,450   .11   1,900   .10  2,400   .11  3,700   .10
Industrial       5,600   .53  7,300   .54   9,700   .54 12,100   .53 16,900   .46
Govemment        2,800   .26  3,300   .24   4,200   .23  5,200   .23  9.100   .25
Other (Wholesale)   2,800   .26  3,100   .23   3,900   .22  4,600   .20  5,700   .15
Wastewater
Residential        650   .06  1,050   .08   1,500   .08  2,000   .09  3,100   .08
Industrial       2,600   .25  4,150   .30   6,700   .37  9.100   .40 12,700   .34
Government       1,300   .12  1,700   .12   1,900   .10  2,600   .11  7,100   .19



- 18 -
In January 1995 average real water tariffs increased almost 13 percent, while average real wastewater
tariffs increased 20 percent, with real residential tariffs for water and wastewater increasing about 25
percent in real terms. Tariffs would continue to increase in real terms during the project at an average
annual rate of 6 percent, and at inflation thereafter.  Because industrial users have borne a
disproportionate share of costs, residential tariffs would rise more than the average, increasing 10 percent
annually in real terms throughout the implementation period. Despite these increases, residential tariffs
would pass affordability tests at 2 percent of household income through 2005. Tariffs for industrial users
would increase 5 percent annually during implementation, and thereafter decrease in real terms. The
decrease would grow from -3.9 percent in 2001 to -7.5 percent in 2005. With these changes, the
industrial:residential water tariff ratio would improve from 4.6 in 1995 (16,900/3700) to 1.7
(36,000/21,100) in 2005. Tariffs for government users would increase during project implementation,
with a 10 percent real increase in 1996 tapering to 6.5 percent in 2000. Thereafter government tariffs
would be kept at inflation. Tariffs for other customers (wholesale accounts) would be 5 percent above
inflation during implementation, and at inflation thereafter.
4.4        These adjustments would improve returns on assets (from 3.5 percent in 1995 to 7.2 percent
in 2000), send clearer price signals encouraging water conservation and help phase down cross-subsidies
from industrial users. AQUA would be able to finance its operations and maintenance cost and provide
timely debt service and counterpart funding throughout the period of the project, and after the project is
completed, generate sufficient net cash to self-finance a significant level of investment-or, more likely,
continue borrowing prudently and invest at a faster pace.
4.5       A sensitivity analysis performed to assess the potential impact of foreign exchange and interest
rate risks on AQUA shows that debt service coverage would remain viable in the event of a 30 percent
increase in these factors, with the debt service coverage ratio falling to 2.7 in 2002 (compared to a low
of 3.6 in the base case). AQUA also would remain solvent, though its investment capacity would be
substantially affected, in the event of revenues 15 percent lower than the base case projection.
4.6        To ensure that the parameters of this assessment hold true, AQUA has agreed that it would:
(a) would maintain working ratios not higher than 0.65 in any financial year throughout the
project and
(b) would obtain Bank consent before committing any major investmnent (US$5 million) other
than the project; and
(c) would refrain from any new borrowing that would bring its projected debt service
coverage ratio below 1.50 in any financial year.
PART V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFrrS
5.1       As a result of the project, consumers would receive more reliable, safer and better quality
water and wastewater services. The institutional strengthening, network rehabilitation and operational
improvements would result in higher system efficiency and improved productivity, thereby helping to
contain the cost to the consumer for services. Of equal, if not greater value, is the significant positive



- 19 -
environmental benefit that would be obtained. The project would support an investment program to
provide biological treatment for all wastewater generated in Bielsko-Biala and thereby reduce pollution
discharged into the Biala and Vistula rivers. The project would include other smaller, but still important
environmental improvements, such as the initiation of combined sewer overflow control programs to
reduce pollution discharges, the introduction of a more effective monitoring program for industrial
wastewater discharges to help reduce toxic emissions and the connection of several thousand people to
the sewer system. Another important positive impact is the demonstration effect in a number of areas
identified as crucial for the sector reform, including creation of an autonomous utility, introduction of
modern utility management and administration, adoption of full cost recovery principles, and multi-year
least cost business planning and investment program identification.
5.2       These economic benefits can be put into perspective by examining the situation in Bielsko-
Biala without the project. Without the project's rehabilitation work--a significant share of both water and
wastewater components-operations and maintenance costs for these systems would escalate. In an
extreme case, conditions could so severely deteriorate that water and wastewater service to residential and
industrial customers would be jeopardized, with serious consequences for public health and production
losses by industry. Failure to support project investments in wastewater treatment would result in
continued degradation of the immediate receiving waters.
B. NET PRESENT VALUE
5.3       The nature of project investments-rehabilitation and operational improvement of existing
systems-and related environmental benefits does not allow calculation of a complete economic rate of
return. Detailed information quantifying the environmental impact of existing pollution from wastewater,
and consequent benefits from improved wastewater treatment, are not available. As proxy the net present
value of the project's financial flows has been used to provide indication of minimum economic value.
With conservative assumptions and discounting at 10 percent, a base case analysis suggests a US$31.5
million net present value. In a more adverse enviromnent, with capital and operating and maintenance
costs up 20 percent throughout the projection period, net present value still would remain positive. With
an independent increase of these variables, positive net value would be preserved with capital costs
increasing 50 percent or operating and maintenance costs increasing 30 percent. These results, together
with a return on revalued fixed assets exceeding 6 percent, the solid financial performance projected for
the company and substantial non-quantified benefits all support the project's real economic worth.
Assumptions and calculations for the net present value analysis are shown in Annex L of the PID.
C. AFFoRDABILITY
5.4       Despite recent and projected increases in residential tariffs, water and wastewater services
would remain affordable in Bielsko-Biala. The 1995 water tariff for residential use is PLN 0.3700/m3
(US$0.16) and PLN 0.3100 (US$0.13) for wastewater service. The affordability of increased tariffs has
been assessed by categorizing households as either "working" (category I) or "retired" (category II). On
average Category I households have more persons, more workers and fewer pensioners than those in
Category II. Using national averages for the composition of category I and II households, average net
monthly salary and pension data specific to Bielsko-Biala, IBRD projections of real growth in average
incomes, and consumption and tariff projections for the project, the affordability analysis indicates the
combined charge for water and wastewater services as a percentage of household income would be:



- 20 -
Household Category    1996       2000       2005
I             0.9 %      1.2 %     1.6 %
II             1.0%       1.3%      1.7%
Throughout the period of projection, water and wastewater expenditure would not exceed 1.7 percent of
average net household income, for both working and retired households. By way of comparison, for the
average Polish household, 2.7 percent of expenditure is for alcohol and tobacco.'
5.5      In order to assess the impact of projected tariffs on lower income groups, the affordability
analysis was modified using minimum wage and minimum pension data. In this case the results are:
Household Category    1996       2000       2005
I             2.6 %      3.3 %     4.4 %
11            2.0 %      2.5 %      3.4 %
or very roughly about three times the average 'worker" household and twice the average 'pension'
household. Throughout the projection period water and wastewater expenditure for this low income group
would remain below 5 percent of net disposable income, a general Bank threshold affordability for the
sector.
5.6       Above calculations for average and low income households incorporate an average rate of
water consumption. It is likely, however, that low income households consume less water than average,
particularly if these households have fewer water-intensive appliances and facilities. If the consumption
of low income households for example is two-thirds that of an average household, then the affordability
profile becomnes:
Household Category    1996       2000      2005
i             1.7%       2.2%      2.9%
H             1.3 %       1.7 %     2.3 %
giving further evidence of the affordability of proposed tariff increases. Assumptions and calculations
underlying the affordability analysis are contained in Annex M of the PHD.
D. RIsKS
5.7       Overall the project has moderate risks. AQUA is fully committed to project institutional,
financial and physical objectives, and local government is similarly supportive. The company enjoys a
strong financial capacity, good management and staff who supported by consultants should be able to
carry out the project as planned. While there is always risk that local govermnent may compromise utility
autonomy for political gain, the good will of the municipality demonstrated by a performance agreement
between the AQUA and local government minimizes this risk. Because of borrower competence and
2/ Povert, and Sncial Transfers in Poland, G. Grootaert, World Bank, Policy Research Working Paper 1440.



- 21 -
commitment, other significant risks are not foreseeable, and close project monitoring is planned to detect
and address any problems early on.
PART VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1       AQUA and the Bank have agreed on the following:
(a) maintenance of a project implementation unit and employment of a implementation
manager (para. 3.2)
(b) hiring of consultants for institutional strengthening by December 31, 1996 (para. 3.5)
(c) hiring of engineering consultants for water and wastewater operations by June 30,
1996 (para. 3.5)
(d) hiring of engineering consultants for final designs, procurement, and supervision of
construction by July 31, 1996 (para. 3.3)
(e) Bank review of program investments (para. 3.6)
(f) procurement arrangements (paras. 3.8-3.15)
(g) disbursement arrangements (paras. 3.16-3.19)
(h) audit requirements (para. 3.25)
(i) reporting requirements (para. 3.27)
(j) financial covenants-working ratio, investment and debt limitation (para. 4.6)
6.2       Additional condition of effectiveness is the effectiveness of the NFEP cofinancing (para. 2.8).
Recommendations
6.3       With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$12 million and DEM 13.2 million to AQUA at the standard LIBOR-based interest rates for
a two tranche, US$ and DEM, single currency loan with a maturity of 17 years, including a five year
grace period.
m:\pol\muni\bielsko\sargrey.wp5
8:36pm  May 2, 1996






POLAND
BIELSKO-BIALA WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
PROJECT
INFORMATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
DOCUMENT






POLAND
BIELSKO-BIALA WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
CONTENTS
ANNEX A - ASSESSMENT OF PRESENT SITUATION, ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS,
NEED FOR ACTION ..........................................  25
ANNEX B - DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...........................  33
ANNEX C - OUTLINES OF TERMS OF REFERENCE INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING & WATER & SEWER SYSTEM REHABILITATION PROGRAM    35
ANNEX D - PROJECT COST & INVESTMENT SCHEDULE .................... 43
ANNEX E - POLISH NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND
WATER MANAGEMENT .......................................  49
ANNEX F - AGREEMENT BETWEEN AQUA and MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT ....... 51
ANNEX G - PROCUREMENT PLAN ....................................  59
ANNEX H - DISBURSEMENTS .......................................  61
ANNEX I - AGREEMENT BETWEEN AQUA and VOVOIDSHIP ENVIRONMENT
DEPARTMENT .............................................. 63
ANNEX J - MONITORING INDICATORS .................................  65
ANNEX K - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS & MODEL ASSUMPTIONS ....          .......... 67
ANNEX L - NET PRESENT VALUE .........         ...........................  73
ANNEX M - AFFORDABILITY  ..........        .............................  75






ANNEX A
ASSESSMENT OF PRESENT SITUATION,
ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS, NEED FOR ACTION
A. WATER SERVICES
1.   The City of Bielsko-Biala, situated in southern Poland and capital of the Bielsko-Biala voivodship,
has a present population of about 190,000. Bielsko-Biala's water and wastewater enterprise, AQUA, is
responsible for providing water supply and wastewater services in the area. AQUA would be the
borrower and executing agency for the project. This document reflects developments through project
negotiation (November 1995) and incorporates analyses and recommendations in feasibility studies
prepared by international consultants (available in the project files).
Service Coverage, Consumption, Metering, Losses
2.   AQUA provides water supply by house connection to nearly 100 percent of its service population,
approximately 95 percent of whom live within the city limits. The great majority of the population
receives uninterrupted supply save for some pockets where transmission and distribution is deficient (Zlote
Lany) area. AQUA also delivers water to industry and bulk supplies to some communities in the area;
Czechowice-Dziedzce with about 18,000 m3/day is the biggest. Although reliable production metering
is lacking and information on domestic consumption is inconsistent, a fairly accurate picture of
consumption and losses for 1994 is presented in Table Al.
Table Al: Water Production and Use
Use                                Consumption       % of Total
(m3/day)
Water Production                       155,200            100
Domestic                                33,700             21
Industry                                24,200             16
Government                               4,700              3
Bulk Sales                              23,400             15
Non-revenue Water a/                    11,800              8
Unaccounted-for-water                   57,400             37
a - Water for public use, measured but not billed.
3.     Water consumption has decreased in recent years and total production has fallen from about
164,000 m3/day in 1992, to 157,000 m3/day in 1993, to about 155,000 m3/day in 1994. Most of the
decrease is attributable to the decline and restructuring of industry and accompanying water use
reductions. According to AQUA, the high rate of unaccounted-for-water is caused mostly by leakage
from the pipe network, as all consumers, including municipal agencies responsible for park lawn irrigation



- 26 -
and street cleaning trucks, are equipped with water meters. Bringing down unaccounted-for-water is a
big challenge for AQUA in the future and therefore an important project objective. The project includes
the planning and implementation of an unaccounted-for-water control program. Part of this program will
be a more reliable analysis of water production, use and losses, which may lead to revision of the figures
presented in Table Al.
4.      AQUA reports over 21,000 consumption meters (1993), of which 18,600 are for domestic
supply. With about one meter per ten people, this coverage is remarkable for Eastern Europe. Data for
each water meter are stored in a computerized system. Meters are recertified every six years for domestic
and four years for industrial consumers. Annually about 800 meters are replaced and 4,000 repaired.
Demand Forecast
5.      Demographic studies forecast that the city's population will stay stable for the foreseeable future.
An annual growth rate of 0.7 percent per year is projected. Further industrial restructuring and
diversification induced by recent economic and political reforms is expected, but future industrial
development should not generate significantly more water demand, and industrial consumption is projected
to remain constant. Current domestic consumption rates of about 180 I/c/d approximate those in most
of Western Europe', but further declines are expected as increases in tariffs and demand management
measures take place. Sales to government and wholesale accounts are projected to increase in line with
the growth in general population. Programs for reducing unaccounted-for-water are expected to reduce
production requirements. A sunimary of projected production and demand is presented in Table A2.
Table A2: Sunmmary of Projected Water Consumption and Production
(m3/day)
Water Consumption
Population                                                          Unaccounted-
Year     Served                                                               for-Water   Production
(Thousands)  Domestic  Industry   Govt.   Wholesale  Other v   Total    (%)
1996        194       33,800    24,200   4,800     23,700   10,000   96,500     35         148,500
2000        200       33,200    24,200   4.900     24,400    5,000   91,700      27         110,500
2005        206       32,400    24,200   5,100     25,300    5,000   91,900      25          12,500
a - non-revenue water.
Water Production/Treatment
6.      Water Sources. AQUA receives about 85 percent of its water from the Sola River, and the rest
from other smaller rivers coming out of the mountainous areas south of Bielsko-Biala. In general the raw
water available to AQUA is of fairly good quality, although there is some concern about upstream
discharges creating bacteriological contamination of the Sola River and the watershed for the Czaniec
Reservoir, the water source for the entire Sola River water treatment complex. The river water is
moderately hard, turbid and colored, with large seasonal variations. It contains appreciable concentrations
of iron and manganese, but there is no contamination by organic compounds, solvents or metals. In
1/ Per Capita Daily Water Consumption in Selected European Countries in liters/capita/day in 1991: Austria, 215; Denmark, 175;
France, 161; Germany, 144; Netherlands, 173; United Kingdom, 161. Source: IWSA, 19th International IWSA Congress,
October 1993



- 27 -
summary, AQUA's raw water supply is acceptable in terms of both quantity and quality, but careful
monitoring must be continued to detect any problems early.
7.     Water Treatment Plants. AQUA operates three main water treatment plants, Kobiernice (also
known as "Sola"), Wapienica and Szczyrk. Together they have a nominal capacity of about 200,000
m3/day, with Kobiernice the largest at a capacity of about 130,000 m3/day. All plants use rapid sand
filtration with chlorination; part of the Kobiernice plant depends on pretreatment through infiltration
lagoons adjacent to the Sola River. All plants are manually operated with essentially no automation,
maintenance is deficient, and perhaps the most important drawback and source of inefficiency is the lack
of adequate process control.
Water Pumping/Transmission/Distribution System
8.     The principal trunk main network comprises approximately 180 km of pipe between 300 mm and
1,200 mm diameter, including unlined cast iron pipes laid between 1900 and 1993 (85 percent), unlined
steel pipes laid between 1900 and 1993 (12 percent) and asbestos cement pipes laid between 1945 and
1965 (3 percent). There are 1,070 km of distribution mains of generally less than 300 mm diameter,
predominately unlined cast iron pipes laid between 1900 and 1993 (90 percent). The pipe network is
reported to be in serviceable condition, particularly larger diameter mains, but a comprehensive physical
survey of the system is needed to obtain more reliable information on the state of the network. There are
indications that tuberculation and corrosion is widespread, particularly in the smaller pipes. Because
damage to the network is frequent and the present pipe setup makes zone isolation difficult, repairing
bursts on major mains requires sending water by alternate routes with rapid changes in flow velocity and
direction. As a result, consumers frequently experience "red water" problems, as products of internal
corrosion and the carry-over of matter from inefficient treatment processes contaminate water in the
system. AQUA receives some 700 complaints a year about discoloration of water and sediment.
Investment Priorities
9.     AQUA has identified the following priority investments needs:
Water Treatment: Existing plant capacity is sufficient for present and future demand;
capacity expansions are not needed. The main task ahead is to improve plant operations and
efficiency. The project will include financing for plant rehabilitation and operational
improvements.
Service Expansion: Resources need to be allocated to extend water service to areas currently
unconnected or poorly served, particularly the Zlote Lany district.
*Pumping/transmission/distribution system improvements: Investments are needed to make
water supply more secure, improve water quality, reduce leakage and increase the overall
hydraulic efficiency of the system. The project therefore would support the initiation of
sustained programs of pipe rehabilitation and replacement, leak detection and repair and
hydraulic network efficiency improvements to reduce pipe failures, water quality problems
and operating costs. To ensure cost effectiveness, investments would be selected on the basis
of a detailed system survey, energy audits at pumping stations and system evaluation and
optimization using computerized modeling.



- 28 -
B. WASTEWATER SERVICES
Service Area and Population Served
10.   Wastewater collection is provided to the most densely populated areas of Bielsko-Biala. Of the
total 187,000 people served with water (1994), about 157,000 have a sewer connection. Those not served
have on-site solutions or use local and individual small systems collecting water into holding tanks that
should be emptied regularly and brought to a wastewater treatment plant, but in practice often pollute
small local streams. Programs are under way to connect unserved households to the sewer system as main
collectors are extended.
Wastewater CoUection
11.    Bielsko-Biala is situated in the valley of the Biala River with the general slope of the area
converging to the river which bisects the town. All sewers flow by gravity to two main collectors, on
each side of the river. Eventually these collectors combine into one 1,200 mm collector which directs
the flow to the Komorowice wastewater treatment plant.
12.    Most of the sewers are constructed from concrete, cast iron and clay and are reported to be in
fair condition. Operations and maintenance consists of reactive measures and sewer cleaning. There are
about 330 km of sewers and collectors in the area served by AQUA. The central portion of the Bielsko-
Biala system is primarily composed of combined sewers, while outlying areas and all sewers constructed
since 1968 are separate systems. AQUA has responsibility for the combined and separate wastewater
sewers and, under contract with the municipality, also operates and maintains the separate storm sewers.
Combined sewer overflows reportedly are not a current concern, but will have to be reduced in the
medium and long term future. Low BOD concentration in the inflow to wastewater treatment plants,
large dry weather flows and other evidence suggests infiltration and inflow (I/I) is a major problem. I/I
is estimated to be on the order of 50 percent of the total dry weather flow. I/I reduction is an important
objective for AQUA, particularly to reduce capacity requirements and reduce operating costs for
wastewater treatment.
13.   Investment Priorities/Strategy. Investments for sewer system improvement and I/I reductions
clearly are priority investment needs. To ensure that these investments are made in a cost effective and
prioritized way, a better understanding of the physical state of the system and its hydraulic performance
are required. Toward this end, AQUA will carry out under the project:
a comprehensive physical survey of the sewer system
a program of flow measurement throughout the system and
development of a computerized hydraulic simulation model2 based on the sewer survey and
flow measurements.
14.   This information will be used to prepare and begin the implementation of a phased program of
sewer cleaning, repair and rehabilitation, and pumping station refurbishment to increase hydraulic
performance of the system, reduce infiltration and inflow and decrease combined sewer overflows.
7/ A calibrated computer model is an essential tool to understand the system's functioning and to determine additional cost
effective improvements.



- 29 -
Wastewater Treatment
15.   Komorowice, originally designed in 1964, is Bielsko-Biala's main wastewater treatment plant with
a nominal capacity of about 120,000 m3/day; however, due to hydraulic limitations, the biological
treatment capacity is 40,000 m3/day. Komorowice should meet current effluent standards of 30 mg/l
BOD, 30 mg/l total suspended solids and 5 mg/l phosphorous, but the plant, heavily overloaded with an
average dry weather flow of 105,000 m3/day, is not meeting these standards. The Ministry of
Environmental Protection has refused to provide a permit for the plant and AQUA is obliged to pay heavy
fines. Recently, AQUA has begun the construction of the first phase of a new treatment plant at
Wapienica to provide 8,000 m3/day of primary and biological treatment.
16.   Investment Priorities/Strategy. AQUA plans to bring full wastewater treatment to Bielsko-Biala
in three phases:
Phase 1 (by the year 2000):
double the biological treatment capacity of the Komorowice plant and complete the Wapienica
plant to provide primary treatment and biological treatment for about 80 percent of
wastewater generated in Bielsko-Biala
Phase 2 (by the year 2005):
provide primary and secondary biological treatment for all wastewater generated in Bielsko-
Biala
Phase 3 (by the year 2010):
provide primary and secondary treatment, and nutrient removal for all Bielsko-Biala's
wastewater
C. INSTiTUTIONAL ASSESSMENT
Corporate Governance
17.   AQUA is registered as a joint stock company. In this position it enjoys wide autonomy, although
local government, as owner of the company, retains ultimate power over important decisions relating to
tariff levels and major investments.  AQUA management and local government have a good
understanding, work together responsibly and respect each other's prerogatives. Yet more clearly spelled
out obligations and responsibilities of both parties would help preserve this harmony. Therefore the
project would require a performance agreement between the partners, including monitorable indicators
defining AQUA's commitment to improve management, administration, finances and operations.
Instiutonal Strengthening
18.   By Polish standards, AQUA is a well run and efficient company.  Nevertheless, many
improvements are possible. Based on an in-depth assessment of AQUA's management and administration,
consultants have proposed a number of actions designed to turn AQUA into a utility meeting management
and operations standards on par with the better Western European utilities. Actions recommended by
consultants entail:



- 30 -
a clearer mission statement with aims and targets for definition of company autonomy,
accountability, quality of service, pricing of service and cost recovery, efficiency of
operations (demand management, leak detection, least-cost planning and appropriate
technology) and customer satisfaction;
a more effective organizational structure with definition of responsibilities, job profiles and
descriptions, staffing and internal interaction among company units;
* improved leadership skills and competencies for all levels of management and staff to
introduce a "corporate culture" aimed at improving efficiency in the company's management
and operations;
* a public relations capability, including proactive strategy and plan to improve the public image
of the company;
* better human resources development, including contracts for directors, job descriptions,
performance standards, recruitment and training programs and processes;
* improved asset management, with asset titling, registration, valuation, maps/plans, and
insurance;
increased staff productivity by upgrading management and staff competence and gradually
reducing overstaffing through attrition; the present indicator of about 3.5 employees per 1000
people served is significantly higher than found at efficient utilities in the Western Europe;
multi-year comprehensive business planning to improve AQUA performance with short,
medium and long term monitorable management and operational targets;
upgraded computer-based management and administrative systems, including systems for
management information and control, budgeting, cost accounting, customer service and
commercial operations, stocks, implemented in accordance with an integrated computerization
study; and
a new tariff structure to assure sufficient revenue generation and promotion of water
conservation.
Human Resources/Staffing
19.    AQUA management is confident, energetic, highly motivated, enthusiastic and in control.
Managers are well aware of the institutional weaknesses of the company. Management desires to turn
AQUA into a modem utility with private sector involvement-a view shared by the political leadership
of the city. AQUA's staff is well trained in technical matters, but knowledge in many areas of modem
utility management and operation can be improved, particularly in financial control and management,
corporate planning, business skills and commercial practices. AQUA greatest asset is its people;
management eager to introduce a new commercial attitude and staff willing to follow, but requiring proper
instruction, and administrative and operational tools.
20.   At present AQUA employs about 650 people or about 3.5 people per 1000 population. Of the
total employees, about 110 work in AQUA's construction department which is run as a separate profitable
business. AQUA asserts that its construction department is today the most efficient and experienced
construction unit in the Bielsko-Biala area. AQUA would like to spin off its construction arm, but is



- 31 -
reluctant to do so because AQUA can avoid VAT taxes by doing construction in house. Subtracting the
construction department employees, the employees per 1000 population declines to about 2.8. This ratio
is still high compared to the more automated and efficient utilities in Westem Europe and North America.
AQUA management is aware of the fact that it is overstaffed and intends to bring down its number of
staff through attrition.
Direction for the Future
21.   AQUA management realizes that company performance can be substantially improved. It seeks,
therefore technical assistance by an experienced group of foreign utility practitioners to help the company
elaborate and implement identified institutional strengthening measures.
22.   In the long run, local government and AQUA are interested in bringing in private capital. The
proposed project would allow AQUA to demonstrate to the private sector that it can perform as a
successful business. Preparing the company for the private sector by strengthening corporate autonomy,
commercial discipline and asset improvement in a fast but controllable pace fits with a general strategy
supported by many in Poland to bring in gradually private management and financing of public services.






ANNEX B
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. WATER SUPPLY
A. 1   Transmrission/Distribution: Fxpand/lmprove Service to Zlote Lany area
add pumps
construction of transmission main (6 lum, D 300/400 mm)
A.2   Production: Upgrade Existing Water Treatment Plants
A.2.1  Wapienica Plant
* repair protection dam
* install flow meters
* install backwash recovery system
* improve corrosion control facilities
* add mechanical mixers to chemical tanlcs
* update laboratory equipment
* other as yet unidentified interventions
A.2.2  Szczyrk Plant
- improve corrosion control
* install flow meters
install gas chlorination equipment
-retrofit filters with GAC
install gas chlorination system
* update laboratory equipment
other as yet unidentified interventions
A.2.3      Sola Plant
* improve corrosion control system
* install flow meters
* update laboratory equipment
* other as yet unidentified interventions
A.3    Rehabilitate and Iprove Efficiency of Transmission_  Distribution, Punpin. Storge      .
includin programs for:'
leak detection and repair
* water main rehabilitation/replacement
* bottleneck reduction
* energy saving
1/ Specific investments and quantities to be detennined during project implementation.



- 34 -
B. WASTEWATER
B.1    Expand Wastewater Collection system
B. 1. I Expand Sewer Collectors
* Wapienica Collector
* Industrial collector
B.2    Upgrade and Expand Wastewater Treatment
B.2. 1 expand Komorowice Plant to provide secondary treatment for an additional 30,000 m3/day
B.2.2  complete Wapienica Plant to provide primary and secondary treatment to 8,000 m31day, including
pump station and force main
B.3    Rehabilitate and Improve Efficiency of Sewer System, including Programs for2
* sewer rehabilitation/replacement
*  infiltration/inflow reduction
* pumping station refurbishment and energy savings
* combined sewer overflow reduction
C. TECBNCAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINNG
Management and Administration Strengthening Program to introduce-
*  organizational improvements, cost accounting system, management information and control
systems, tariff setting and management, demand management, commercial operations,
personnel management, business planning, asset management, and other improvements
through provision of technical assistance, training and acquisition of equipment
D. ENGINEERING DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION
D. 1   Water and Wastewater System Rehabilitation and Operations Improvements Program to:
* identify, design and implement priority investments for leak detection and repair, demand
management, and operational improvements in the water system using surveys and
mathematical modelling, with budget for purchase of equipment and materials and installation
earmarked in Component A.3
* identify, design and implement priority investments for sewer rehabilitation and repair to
reduce infiltration/inflow and improve hydraulic efficiency using surveys of existing state of
sewer system (visual inspection, CCTV) and mathematical modelling, with budget for
purchase of equipment and materials and installation earmarked in Component B.3
D.2       Preparation of studies, final designs, tender documents, tendering and supervision of
construction for all investment components
2/ Specific investments and quantities to be determined during project implementation.



ANNEX C
OUTLINES OF TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION STRENGTHENING
Background
1.    The Water and Wastewater Company of Bielsko-Biala (AQUA) is undertaking a Bank supported
program of investments to improve and expand its water and wastewater services. An equally important
part of the project is an institutional strengthening component aimed at helping AQUA to improve its
management and administration. For this purpose, AQUA wishes to retain expert foreign assistance to
assist in the planning and imnplementation of a program of reorganization and institutional strengthening.
In support of this effort, the Bank loan includes funding for consulting services, the acquisition of
equipment and external training of management and staff.
2.    In preparation of the Bank project, other consultants have already undertaken an in-depth
assessment of AQUA's present institutional performance and have developed a number of specific
recommnendations which have been endorsed in principle by the company. This information should
therefore be taken as a starting point of this consulting program.
3.    In parallel, the company is undertaking, with the assistance of other consultants, programs for the
rehabilitation and operational improvement of its water and wastewater systems. As there are overlapping
interests between these efforts and the institutional strengthening program, consultants in charge of these
programs are to coordinate their efforts.
Scope of Work
4.    The main objective of this consulting assignment is thus to assist AQUA in the planning, design
and implementation of a comprehensive program for institutional restructuring, introducing more efficient
organization and management systems accompanied by training of AQUA management and staff. The
responsibility of the consultant is to assist AQUA management develop, design and implement:
a mission statement defining more clearly AQUA's corporate objectives;
a more effective organizational structure with definition of intra organizational relationships,
job profiles and descriptions, staff number and efficiency;
a program to enhance the skills and competencies and code of conduct for all levels of
management and staff to introduce a "corporate culture" with commercial outlook, efficiency
and customer service;
a public relations capability, including proactive public relations strategy and plan of action
to improve the public image of the company;



- 36 -
* effective customer service, including a customer charter and customer service providing a
functional link to consumers;
* programs and processes to ensure internal communication among all members of the company
facilitating effective downward, upward and lateral flow of information;
* human resource development, including programs for recruitment and training, advancement,
remuneration;
* asset management: titling, registration, valuation, maps/plans, insurance;
* appropriate computer based management and administrative systems, including management
information and control, budgeting, cost accounting, commercial, purchasing and stocks,
implemented in accordance with an integrated computerization strategy;
* new tariff structure based on customer ability and willingness to pay ained at providing
sufficient revenue generation for AQUA, promotion of water conservation and closing the gap
between industrial and domestic tariffs;
*  administrative programs and processes to ensure sustainable implementadon of water and
wastewater system rehabilitation and operational improvement efforts developed
simultaneously;
* programs to strengthen consumption metering, including metering policy for large apartment
buildings;
* integrated planning capacity to ensure that investments are cost effective, priority, affordable
and fit into AQUA's business plan.
5.    The above list of tasks is indicative of the nature of the work expected. Inclusion of additional
tasks not listed may be needed. Also many of the tasks are interrelated and therefore have to be taclded
in a strategic and coordinated fashion.
Implnetto
6.    To ensure that proposed solutions to a certain task/issue are supported by AQUA and where
applicable by stakeholders-unicipality, Voivodship, consumers, industry, for example-and can be
implemented, the work should proceed in a phased manner as outlined below:
* wide discussions with AQUA management and staff and stakeholders concerned leading to
strategic proposals agreed to by all; agreements should be documented in a strategy paper;
*  based on the agreed strategic solution, development of a specific plan of action which defmes
in detail how the envisioned goal would be achieved, including an imnplementation schedule,
assignation of responsibilities, procurement of any needed equipment (cost estimates,
specifications, acquisition), technical assistance and training needs;
* inplementation of the task in accordance with the plan of action;



- 37 -
certification of task completion, i.e. new systems or processes are fully internalized and
consulting assistance is no longer required.
7.    The phased structure of the consulting assignment has been designed to facilitate intensive
cooperation between the consultants, AQUA and stakeholders. Proceeding with a phased approach is
expected to avoid spending resources on initiatives that do not have full local ownership. This approach
should, however, be employed flexibly. It should not delay action on tasks where there is obvious
agreement on how to proceed.
8.    Consultants are expected to work closely with AQUA management and staff. Their role will be
one of providing know how, guidance and facilitation of the institutional development process. As much
as possible, the work should be done by AQUA staff.
9.    The Bank loan includes funds for acquiring equipment (computer software and hardware, for
example) which might be needed for the implementation of some tasks. This equipment will be acquired
by the consultant on behalf of AQUA in accordance with relevant Bank procurement guidelines as defined
in the loan agreement. Any equipment will stay with AQUA after the consultant has completed his
assignment.
10.   An essential element of the consultant's work is training of AQUA staff. While most of this
should be done on the job in direct daily contact with the consultants, the Bank loan includes funds for
specific training for key personnel outside of Poland. Defining training needs and arranging for training
opportunities will be a cooperative task between consultants and AQUA.
Time Frame
11.   The consulting assignment is to be completed within a period of two years after the mobilization
of the consultant.
B. ENGUNEFRG SRVCES FOR WATR AND
WASTEWATER SYSEM REHABLITATION AND OPERATIONAL IMPROVMENT
Introduction
1.    The Water and Wastewater Company of Bielsko-Biala (AQUA), the agency responsible for
providing water and wastewater services in the city of Bieliko-Biala, Poland has contracted a loan from
the World Bank to undertake the expansion, rehabilitation and operational improvement of its water and
wastewater facilities. As part of this project AQUA wishes to engage consulting services for:
preparation and implementation of a comprehensive program for rehabilitating and improving
the efficiency of AQUA's water system; and
preparation and implementation of a comprehensive program for rehabilitating and improving
the efficiency of AQUA's wastewater system.



- 38 -
Water Supply Network Rehabilitaton and Effidency Inprovement Progm
Objective
2.    The objective of this part of the consulting assignment is to assist AQUA design and initiate a
cost-effective, priority and sustainable program to:
* reduce physical water loss from the pipe network;
* reduce incidence of pipe failure and "red" water contamination;
* improve the hydraulic efficiency of the pipe/storage/pumping system to obtain energy savings;
* introduce appropriate methods and standards for the future maintenance and operation of
AQUA's water system.
3.    The project provides a budget of about US$1.5 million for the 1996-2002 period. The program
may receive additional support from AQUA's own funding.
Methodology and Approach
4.    To reach the above goals requires investing in pipe rehabilitation or replacement, improving the
efficiency of pumping stations and providing adequate treated water storage. The issue is to define
through appropriate analysis a strategic plan which can guide investments such that they yield the highest
possible benefits. This requires the definition of a prioritized sequence of investment so as to make the
best use of the resources available. The approach adopted to arrive at these investments should follow
the sequence of steps outlined below.
Step 1:   Assessment of Existng Situation
5.    As a basis for any decision making, a good understanding of the present condition of the pipe
network and the hydraulic behavior of the pipe, pumping and storage system are essential. Therefore the
program should begin with:
an examination of the existing system mapping records system and a check for their
completeness and accuracy;
an in depth physical inspection of the pipe system to obtain reliable information on its state
of repair; to that effect the consultant should assist AQUA in carrying out a comprehensive
survey (physical inspections, analysis of breakage pipe failure records) of the present status
of the pipe network and documenting it;
a detailed leak assessment and identification (flow balance, metering, night flow analysis,
physical detection) to understand the extent, causes and main location of leakage; and
the preparation and calibration of a mathematical simulation model which can accurately
represent flows and pressures throughout the water system.
6.    In carrying out these assessments, a thorough analysis of the information already available to
AQUA should be made. Further field investigation, and analysis, collation and presentation of the



- 39 -
information would be carried out in accordance with a plan of action agreed to by AQUA. This plan of
action would spell out clearly the level of effort proposed in terms of number and location of field
inspections, equipment needs, costs involved and assignment of manpower from AQUA and the
consultant. Regarding the hydraulic modelling of the system, a mathematical model appropriate for the
characteristics should be used.
Step 2:   Elaboration of a Prioritized Strategic Plan
7.    Information gained during the first step is used to identify and analyze investment interventions
needed to reach the objectives of the program. This will involve a combination of a number of actions,
including pipe rehabilitation or replacement, closing of bottlenecks, replacement of existing pumps with
more energy efficient ones and adjusting storage arrangements. Special emphasis should be given to the
identification of win-win solutions: for example, the rehabilitation/replacement of old heavily corroded
and tuberculated pipe may reduce water contamination, leakage and friction losses. The result of these
analyses would be a plan of specific investment proposals ranked in accordance with a definition of
priorities. Any proposed investments should be justified by cost-benefit analysis to the extent practical
and ranked in relation to the highest rate of retum.
Step 3:   Preparation of Detailed Annual Inveshnent Plans
8.    Based on the prioritized strategic investment plans identified in Step 2, specific annual investment
plans should be developed within the budget available from the Bank loan and AQUA funds.
Step 4:   Implementation Assistance
9.    The consultant should assist AQUA in the implementation of the annual investment plans
developed under Step 3. This involves specifically the preparation of bidding packages for the acquisition
of materials and civil works and assistance in contracting.
Step 5:   Preparation of Maintenance and Operation Plan
10.   The consultant should provide assistance to AQUA in organizing plans and a capacity to assure
sustained maintenance and operation of the water supply system.
Wastewater Network Rehabilitation/Efficiency Improvement Program
Objecdve
11.   The objective of this part of the consulting assignment is to assist AQUA design and initiate a cost
effective, priority and sustainable program to:
reduce infiltration/inflow into the pipe network and thereby reduce the hydraulic load on
wastewater treatment plants;
improve the efficiency of flow through the pipe/pumping system to obtain energy savings;
reduce the incidence of combined sewer overflows;
better control industrial wastewater discharges.



- 40 -
12.   The project provides a budget of about US$3.3 million for the 1996-2002 period. The program
may receive additional support from AQUA's own funding.
Approach
13.   Bielsko-Biala possesses a largely combined sewer system whose construction was begun in the
1800's. Replacing and rehabilitating its sewer system, and reducing infiltration and inflow are becoming
an ever more urgent necessity and AQUA will have to begin a systematic program of sewer renovation
and replacement. Although not of priority concern today, combined sewer overflows will have to be
reduced in the medium and long term future.
14.   The approach for the wastewater system improvement program would be similar to that adopted
for the dealing with the water network. Again, the issue is to define through appropriate analysis a
strategic plan which can guide investments such that they yield the highest possible benefits. This requires
the definition of a prioritized sequence of investment so as to make the best use of the resources available.
The approach adopted to arrive at these investments should follow the sequence of steps outlined below.
Step 1:   Assessment of Existing Situation
15.   As a basis for any decision making, a good understanding of the present condition of the pipe
network, pumping stations and composition of the wastewater are essential. Therefore the program should
begin with:
an in depth physical inspection of the pipe system to obtain reliable information on its state
of repair; to that effect the consultant should assist AQUA in carrying out a comprehensive
survey (physical inspections, CCTV, analysis of breakage pipe failure records) of the present
status of the pipe network and documenting it;
a detailed assessment and identification of main sources and magnitude of infiltration and
inflow, including water entering the sewer system as a result of water wastage by industrial
and domestic users;
a survey of all industrial polluters to obtain a better understanding of the industrial flow rates
and composition of their wastes, comparison of the commercial register with industrial
permits;
inventory and survey of combined sewer overflows, including magnitude and frequency of
overflows, water quality data and assessment of impact of combined sewer overflows on the
receiving water;
survey of the state of repair of wastewater pumping stations, including an energy audit; and
preparation and calibration of an appropriate mathematical simulation model (unsteady flow,
backwater and storage effects) for both dry weather and storm weather flow to better
understand the hydraulic performance of the sewer system.
16.   In carrying out these assessments, a thorough analysis of the information already available to
AQUA should be made. Further field investigation, and analysis, collation and presentation of
information would be carried out in accordance with a plan of action agreed to AQUA. This plan of
action would spell out clearly the level of effort proposed in terms of number and location of field



- 41 -
inspections, equipment needs, costs involved and assignment of manpower from AQUA and the
consultant.
Step 2:   Elaboration of a Prioritized Strategic Plan
17.   Information gained during the first step and the sewer simulation model are used to identify and
analyze investment interventions needed to reach the objectives of the program. This will involve a
combination of a number of actions, including pipe rehabilitation or replacement, measures to reduce
infiltration and inflow, replacement of existing pumps with more energy efficient ones, better opeating
procedures to reduce combined sewer overflows. Again special emphasis should be given to the
identification of win-win solutions: for example, the rehabilitation/replacement of old pipes may reduce
the need for repairs and would reduce infiltration. The result of these analyses would be a plan of
specific investment proposals, ranked in accordance with a definition of priorities. Any proposed
investments should be justified by cost-benefit analysis to the extent practical and ranked in relalion to the
highest rate of return.
Step 3:   Preparation of Detailed Annual Investment Plans
18.   Based on the prioritized strategic investment plans identified in Step 2, specific annual investment
plans should be developed within the budget available from the Bank loan and AQUA funds.
Step 4:   Implementation Assistance
19.   The consultants should assist AQUA in the implementation of the annual investment plans
developed under Step 3. This involves specifically the preparation of bidding packages for the acquisition
of materials and civil works and assistance in contracting.
Step 5:   Preparation of Maintenance and Operation Plan
20.   The consultant should provide assistance to AQUA in organizing plans and a capacity to assure
sustained maintenance and operation of the water supply system.
Role of Consultants
21.    The main role of the consultants will be to provide organization, know how, guidance and
general facilitation of the work. As much as possible, the work should be done by AQUA staff thereby
providing on the job training.
22.   The Bank loan includes funds for acquiring equipment and civil works needed to initiate
investments. Also funds are provided for equipment (TV equipment, flow meters, leak detection,
computer software and hardware, for example) which might be needed for the implementation of some
tasks. This equipment will be acquired by the consultant on behalf of AQUA in accordance with relevant
Bank procurement guidelines as defined in the loan agreement. Any equipment will stay with AQUA
after the consultant has completed his assignment.
23.   An most essential element of the consultant's work is training AQUA's staff. While most of this
should be done on the job in direct daily contact with the consultants, the Bank loan includes funds for
specific training for key personnel outside of Poland. Defining training needs and arranging for training
opportunities will be a cooperative task between the consultant and AQUA.



- 42 -
Time Frame
24.   The consulting assignment is to be completed within a period of three years after the mobilization
of the consultant.



ANNEX D
PROJECT COST & INVESTMENT SCHEULE
Table Dl: Annual Investment Implunentatlon Schedule
(Percentage of Total Cost)
'-l      -                       QuaantRiea
1WE       1W7           W       iWE         am       301       Zs      Total
A. Water Supply
1. Tranam lsasonUlstrlbution
. Zlotc Lany Pumping &
Transm lsion
OvIYorbk                                  20         80                                                           100
EIuJtrt S MsIb                            20          0                                                           100
2. Production
. Wapleonic, Szczyrk a
SolIa Mic. Innvst.
C IVorks                                             100                                                          100
Equipw.a  & MNbtm                                               100                                               100
b. WapenIcaWTP,
Popalr Dam
Civl Works                                30         40          30                                               100
Euirant&      *iM.rW                      30         40          30                                              1aO
3. RehabJOper. Improvement
a. Eficlency Investm ents
Civi Works                                           20          20        20        20        20                 100
EBlu nt & UMtsl                                      20          20        20        20        20                 100
IL Wastewater
1. CollectIon
a. Wapienlcs Collector
GYI Work                                  28         60          22                                               100
Equlprent&StMeiM                          27                     73                                               100
b. IndustrIal Collector
Improvement
CkId Y,bo                                                        26        78                                     1OD
EuWpndnt & Mrtlwi                                               100                                               100
2. Treatment
a. Komorowlc Prlmary S
Secondary Trestment
dvlWorks                                  10         as          28                                               100
Equip a  &Materol                         20         *0                                                           100
b. Waplenlca Treament &
Pump StaUon
O  Workiw                                 48          2                                                           100
Equuni & Materil                         100                                                                      1W
3. PahabJOper. Improvement
a. EfBiclncy Investmonto
CvlVork                                              28          25        28        28                           100
EquipimStle rloi                                     28        21.5      21.8        16        14                 100
C. lnstitutionalOperton Strngthening
1. ManagementlAdmInlstrtlon
Eqununt & MW _                                60         60                                                           100
Consuktatrecrnch     Asabtale                 30         e0          10                                               10o
Tr""hg                                        60          S0                                                          10
2. Watr System Operations
Eiulfwnt & MSteriale                          00         40                                                           100
EngkeeriNg Srvtc                             40         40          20                                               100
Trnhhg                                        80         80                                                           100
3. WatewaterOperatUone
E7upnient & M6t                               80          50                                                         1I0
Enginering Srvbss                             40         40          20                                               1t0
Trlh*ng                                       80          60                                                          00
0. Design & Supervision
1. Deign                                       tOD                                                                      100
2. Supervison                                    5          IS         38        30        IS                           100



- 44 -
Table D2: Summary of Total Project Cost
Old Zloty billion IV               US$ million
Local   Foreign    Total        Local   Foreign   Total   ExchF   e   Base Costa
A. Water Supply
1. Transmission/Distrib.     20         6       26          0.82      0.23     1.05      22            3
2. Production                22         8        30         0.89      0.32    1.21       26            4
3. Rehab./Ops. Improv.      114        34       148         4.65      1.37    6.03       23            19
Subtotal             156       47       203          6.36      1.93    8.28       23           26
B. Wastewater
1. Collection                62        11       73          2.51      0.46    2.97        15           9
2. Treatment                196        97      293          8.01      3.94   11.95        33          38
3. Rehab./Ops. Improv.       61        10       71          2.48      0.42    2.89        14           9
Subtotal            318       118       436         13.00     4.82   17.82        27           57
C. Technical Assistance & Training
1. Mgmt./Admin.               7        16       22          0.27      0.64    0.92       70            3
Subtotal               7        16       22          0.27     0.64    0.92        70            3
D. Engineering Services
1. Water/Wwtr Operations     16        38       54          0.65      1.54    2.19       70            7
2. Design & Supervision      34        20       55          1.41      0.84    2.24       37            7
Subtotal             50        58       109          2.06     2.37    4.43        54           14
Total Baseline Costs           531       239       770        21.69      9.76   31.45        31          100
Physical Contingencies       53        24       77          2.17      0.98    3.15       31           10
Price Contingencies /       201        87      288          0.34      0.45    0.79       57            3
Total Project Costs            785       350     1,135        24.20     11.19   35.38        32          113
a - New Polish Zloty equals 10,000 old zlotys
b  - Domestic inflation is expected to escalate at the following rates: 1996 - 18%; 1997 - 12%; 1998 - 10%; 1999 - 8%;
2000-2002 - 6%. Foreign inflation is expected to escalate at the rate of 2.4 per annum 1996-2002.
Table D3: Project Cost Summary by Expenditure Accounts
(Old Zloty Billion) #                  (USS Milion)
%    % Total                         %    % Tobl
Foreign  Base                        Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total Exchang  Coats  Local Foreign  Total Exchang  Coet
1. Invebtment Costs
A CMI Works                      230     50   280       18    3B   9.40   2.03  11.43        to      26
B. Equipment & Matenala         247    122   370        33     48  10.10   4.99  15.09       33     48
C. ConsultmntslTechnical Assistance  5   12    18       70      2   0.22   0.50   0.72       70      2
D. Engineering Servioes          48      51    99       52     13   1.95   2.09   4.04       52     13
E. Training                        1      3     4       81      1   0.03   0.14   0.17       81      I
Total BASEUNE COSTS                531    239   770       31    100  21.89   9.78  31.45       31    100
PhysIal Contlngenclzs            53      24    77       31     10   2.17   0.98   3.15       3t     t0
Price Contingencies              201     87   288       30     37   0.34   0.45   0.79       57      3
Total PROJECT COSTS                785    350  1,135      31    147  24.20  11.19  35.38       32    113
a - New Polih Zloty quals 10,000 old zlotys



- 45 -
Table D4: Annual Cost by Main Project Component
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingenis
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002   Total
A. Water Supply
1. Transmisslon/Distribution         0.23    0.92        -                               -    1.15
2. Production                         0.24    0.58    0.51       -       -       -        -    1.33
3. Rehabilltation/Oper. Improvement           1.33    1.37    1.41    1.45    1.49        -    7.05
Subtotal                                0.47    2.83    1.88    1.41    1.45    1.49        -    9.53
B. Wastewater
1. Collecbtion                        0.54    0.62    1.65    0.49               -        -    3.31
2. Treatment                          3.96    8.09    1.10       -       -       -        -   13.15
3. Rehabilitation/Oper. Improvement      -    0.85    0.75    0.77    0.66    0.30        -    3.34
Subtotal                                4.50    9.57    3.50    1.27    0.66    0.30        -   19.80
C. Technical Assistance and Training
1. Management/Administration         0.35    0.60    0.08        -       -       -       -    1.03
Subtotal                                0.35    0.60    0.08       -       -       -        -    1.03
D. Engineering Services
1. Water and Wastewater Operations    1.03    1.02    0.42               -       -        -    2.47
2. Design and Supervision             0.92    0.25    0.59    0.52    0,27       -        -    2.55
Subtotal                                1.95    1.27    1.01    0.52    0.27        -       -    5.02
Total PROJECT COSTS                     7.27   14.27    6.48    3.20    2.38    1.78        -   35.38



- 46 -
Table D5: Detailed Annual Project Cost by Component
(US$ million)
Breakdown of Totals IncL Cant
Local
Totals Including ContingencIes                    For.   (Excl. Duties &
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Z00z   Total   Bcch.  Taxes)  Taxes   Total
A. Water Supply
1. Transm isslon/Distrlbution
a. Zlote Lany Pumping &
Transmission
Civil Works                0.09   0.37                                         0.47    0.09    0.35      0.03    0.47
Equipment & Material       0.13   0.55                                         0.68    0.18    0.35      0.16    0.68
Subtotal                      0.23   0.92                                         1.15    0.27    0.70     0.19    1.t5
2. Production
a. Wapienica, Szczyrk &
Sola Misc. Invest.
Cavil Works                        0.25                                        0.25    0.05    0.19      0.02    0.25
Equiprent & Material                      0.25                                 0.25    0.15    0.05      0.06    0.25
Subtotal                             0.25   0.25                                 0.50    0.19    0.23      0.07    0.50
b. Wapienica WTP,
Repair Dam
Civil Works                 0.18   0.24   0.19                                  0.60    0.11    0.45     0.04    0.60
Equiprnnt & Material        0.06   0.09   0.07                                  0.22    0.06    0.11     0.05    0.22
Subtotal                      0.24   0.33   0.26                                  0.82    0.17    0.56     o.09    0.82
Subtotal                        0.24   0.58   0.51                                  1.33    0.36    0.W0     0.16    1.33
3. RehabJOper. Improvement
a. Efficiency Investments
Civil Works                        0.46   0.48   0.50   0.52   0.53             2.48    0.45    1.87     0.16    2.48
Equipnent & Material               0.87   0.89   0.91   0.94   0.96            4.57    1.19    2.32      1.05    4.57
Subtotal                             1.33   1.37   1.41   1.45   1.49             7.05    1.64    4.19     1.22    7.05
Total Water Supply                  0.47   2.53   1.88   1.41   1.45   1.49             9.53    2.27    s569     1.57    9.53
B. Wastewater
1. Collection
a. Wapienica Collector
Ovil Works                  0.34   0.62   0.29                                  1.26    0.23    0.94     0.08    1.28
Squiprrnt & Material        0.20          0.58                                  0.78    0.10    0.50     0.18    0.78
Subtotal                      0.54   0.62   0.86                                  2.03    0.33    1.44     0.28    Z03
b. Industrlal Collector
Improvement
Civil Works                               0.16   0.49                           0.65    0.12    0.49     0.04    0.65
Equipment & Material                      0.63                                 0.63    0.08    0.41      0.15    0.83
Subtotal                                    0.79   0.49                           1.28    0.20    0.90     0.19    1.25
Subtotal                        0.54   0.62   1.65   0.49                           3.31    0.53    2.34     0.45    3.31
2. Treatment
a. Komorowice Primary &
Secondary Treatment
CivilWorks                  0.41   2.72   1.10                                  4.23    0.79    3.17     0.28    4.23
Equipnent & Material       1.14   4.66                                         5.80    2.39    2.07      1.34    5.80
Subtotal                      1.55   7.38   1.10                                 10.03    3.18    5.24     1.bl   10.03
b. Wapienica Treatment &
Pum p Station
Ovil Works                  0.84   0.71                                         1.36    0.25    1.01     0.09    1.36
Equipnent & Material        1.77                                                1.77    1.03    0.33     0.41    1.77
Subtotal                      2.41   0.71                                         3.13    1.28    1.35     0.50    3.13
Subtotal                       3.96   8.09   1.10                                  13.15    4.46    6.58     2.11   13.15
3. RehabJOpar. Improvement
a. Efficency Investments
Civil Works                        0.31   0.33   0.34   0.35                    1.33    0.24    1.00     0.09    1.33
Equipnent & Material               0.54   0.42   0.43   0.31   0.30             2.00    0.25    1.29     0.46    2.00
Subtotal                             0.85   0.75   0.77   0.i6   0.30             3.34    0.49    2.29     0.55    3.34
Total Wastewater                    4.50   9.57   3.50   1.27   0.68   0.30            19.50    5.48   11.22     3.11   19.80



- 47 -
Table D5: Detailed Annual Project Cost by Component (continued)
Breakdown of Totals Ichl Cont
Local
Totals Including Contingencies                     For.  (EcL  DUtb.n a
135    iuwu    'IT"    u       zWII   ZW1    ZWZ --- ToUr- tch. Taxes)  Taxes   Total
C. Consulting
Equip.a.t & Mwarls                     o0.o    0.06       -       -                       -    0.16    0.11    0.02    0.04    0.16
ConsutantrTachniral Assblt ice           0.24    0.49    0.06      -       -       -       -    0.81    0.57    0.19    0.06    0.61
Trahhig                                  0.03    0.03      -       -       -       -       -    0.07    0.05    0.01    o.      0.07
Subtotal                                   0.35    U.6    o.oe           -       -           -    1.0    0.73    O.21     O W     1 w
D0 Enilneering Servkes
1. Water System Operations
Equuni l& Merltd                         0.09    0.08      -       -       -       -       -    0.16    0.11    0.02    0.04    0.16
ngineering ServFes                       0.48    0.49    0.25          -       -           -    1.21    0.86    0.28    006    1.21
Trahhg                                   003    0.03       -                                    0.07    0.05    001     000    0.07
Subtotal                                   .u    o.se    U.D         -       -       -       -    1.44    1.0Z    U.30    U.12    1.44
2. Wastewater Operations
Erulmsnnt& mterhl                        0.06    0.08      -       -       -       -       -    0.16    0.11    0.02    0.04    0.16
Enghwrhg Servts                          0.32    0.33    0.17          -           -       -    0.81    0.57    0.19    0.05    0.81
Trhinhg                                  0.03    0.03      -       -       -       -       -    0.07    0.05    0.01    0.00    0 07
Subtotal                                   0.43    D.44    D.11              -               -    1.03    U.71    U.21     .W    1.03
3. Ovslgn                                  084       -       -       -       -               -    0.84    0.42    0.38    0.05    0.64
4. Supervislon                             0.08    0.25    0.59    0.2    0.27       -       -    1.71    0.54    1.06    0.11    1.71
Total                                        2.30    1.7    1. W      .52    0.Z       -       -    6.05    3.44    Z.14     0.41    6.05
Grand Total                                  ,.Z1   14.21    5.46    3.20    Z.35    1.16    0(51   35.36   11.11   19.04    5.15   35.38






ANNEX E
POLISH NATIONAL FUND FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AND WATER MANAGEMENT
Background and Objectives
1.    The National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management (NFEP) is an
independent state institution with the mission of financing environmental protection projects. The National
Fund collects money from charges for the economic use of the environment as well as penalties for non-
compliance with environmental protection regulations.
2.    The National Fund was established through an amalgamation of two previously separate
institutions-the Environmental Protection Fund and the Water Management Fund and commenced
activities July 1989. The National Fund was later accompanied by the establishment of local and
provincial funds for environmental protection and water management. These local and provincial funds,
like the National Fund, receive revenues from various pollution charges and natural resource use fees.
In general, 10 percent of the charges go to the local funds, with 60 percent of the remaining money to
the provincial funds and 30 percent to the National Fund. The environmental funds all collect and
disburse money for projects involving environmental protection.
3.    Poland's environmental protection related expenditures rose from US$437 million in 1990 to
US$889 million in 1993. Total annual environmental expenditures and NFEP's share of those
expenditures are shown in Table El. Table E2 shows the sources used to fund environmental
expenditures in 1993.
Table El: Annual Overall Envirownental Expenditures In Poland
with corresponding cantibuton of the National Fund
(US$ Millions)
1990       1991        1992       1993
Overall enviromnental expenditures  437.0   757.0       878.0      889.0
NFEP environmental expenditures  89.7       105.3       210.0      198.5
(2.0%)     (13.9%)    (23.9%)    (22.3%)



- 50 -
Table E2: Overall Environmental Expenditures for 1993
(USS Millions)
Source                                  Amount
State budget subsidies             44.5      (5.0%)
Environmental Funds               515.5    (58.0%)
Private sector resources and loans  204.5    (23.0%)
Municipalities                     89.0      (10.0%)
Foreign assistance                 35.5      (4.0%)
Total                $889.0      100%
Source of Revenue
4.    Revenues of the National Fund have systematically increased. During 1990-1993 revenues rose
from US$12.9 million to US$284.0 million. The National Fund's revenue comes primarily from air
emission charges, wastewater charges, water use charges, waste disposal charges and various fees for non-
compliance with environmental protection regulations.
Disbueent Mechanims
5.    The National Fund provides its financial assistance in the form of:
soft loans
grants and subsidies
interest subsidies to loans originated by the Environmental Protection Bank and
partial forgiveness of loan repayment
and recently has initiated guarantees against loans extended for environmental protection projects.
6.    Soft loans are the dominant form of financing extended by the National Fund and may be used
to cover 50 percent of a project's cost. Award of a loan is conditional upon presentation of full financial
coverage (inclusive of financing from NFEP) of the investment project. The National Fund also requires
submission of an economic analysis of the project based on its business plan and financial projections.
For projects where the amount requested for financing by the National Fund exceeds about US$225,000,
project suppliers and contractors must be selected through competitive tendering.
7.    Interest subsidies against loans originated by the Environmental Protection Bank are provided on
the same terms as the soft loans offered by the National Fund-equivalent to the difference between the
conmercial interest rate applied by the Environmental Protection Bank and the preferential rate applied
by the National Fund.
8.    Loan forgiveness is provided to investors who fulfill their contractual commitments vis a vis the
National Fund and meet particular criteria. Not more that 50 percent of loan principal may be written
off in this manner. Loan forgiveness is awarded to borrowers who meet National Fund requirements in
terms of environmental benefits and loan repayment. Forgiveness decisions are issued with a clause
requiring the beneficiary to apply the funds thus saved towards fuirther environmental protection.



ANNEX F
AGREEMENT BETWEEN AQUA and MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT
AGREEMENT
Concluded in Bielsko-Biala on 30 January 1995
between:
THE MUNICIPALITY OF BIELSKO-BIALA
represented by:
MAYOR OF THE CITY OF Bielsko-Biala, Graduate Engineer Zbigniew MICHNIOWSKI
DEPUTY MAYOR OF THE CITY OF Bielsko-Biala, Graduate Engineer Zbigniew LERACZYK
and
"AQUA" CORPORATION Public Utilities Enterprise
represented by:
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGING BOARD, Graduate Engineer Bogdan TRACZYK
concerning mutual cooperation of the PARTIES to the Agreement in connection with execution of
investment projects conducted by the "AQUA" Corporation Public Utilities Enterprise and financed in part
with credit to be extended to this enterprise by the World Bank under an appropriate credit agreement,
over the commitment period of this credit agreement.
1
The "AQUA" Corporation Public Utilities Enterprise in Bielsko-Biala agrees:
1.    to coordinate the structure and policies of investment projects covered by this agreement with the
Municipality of Bielsko-Biala before signing a credit agreement with the World Bank,
2.     not to modify the subject agreement with the World Bank without consulting the Municipality of
Bielsko-Biala.
2
The MUNICIPALITY OF BIELSKO-BIALA agrees not to undertake actions having the aim of impeding
fulfillment of the obligations of "AQUA' Corporation Public Utilities Enterprise deriving from the credit
agreement referred to in  1, and in particular, to ensure that the MANAGEMENT of the 'AQUA"
Corporation will be subject over the period of implementation of the credit agreement in question, but no
longer than the period of possession by the Municipality of the controlling block of shared in the "AQUA'
Corporation, only to the restrictions provided in the Commercial Code and in the version of the
STATUTE in effect on the date of signing of this AGREEMENT.



- 52 -
 3
The PARTIES agree to continue for the period of comnmitinent of this AGREEMENT the procedure
heretofore in effect for establishing the level of charges exacted for use of the water supply and sewerage
facilities in the area of the MUNICIPALITY of Bielsko-Biala which are the property of the 'AQUA'
Corporation Public Utilities Enterprise, the procedure being that decisions in this matter are made by the
"AQUA" Corporation after solicitation of the opinions of the CITY COUNCIL of Bielsko-Biala and of
the BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the "AQUA" Corporation, a pertinent resolution of the CITY
COUNCIL constituting guidelines for the representatives of the MUNICIPALITY on the BOARD OF
DIRECTORS of the 'AQUA" Corporation, except as otherwise provided by prevailing law.
4
Any activities, legal and effective, inconsistent with the provisions of this AGREEMENT, undertaken by
one of the PARTIES, are considered to be null and void.
5
In the event of violation of the provisions of this AGREEMENT, the party violating the AGREEMENT
agrees to indemnification for any damages resulting from such violation.
 6
This AGREEMENT has been executed in four copies of like tenor, two for each of the PARTIES.
[Stamps]:
MUNICIPAL OFFICE                                        "AQUA" CORPORATION
[Illegible]                                   PUBLIC UTILITIES ENTERPRISE
43-300 BIELSKO-BIALA                                 ul. 1 Maja 23, Phone: 240 11 to 15
43-300 BIELSKO-BIALA
MAYOR
Zbigniew Michniowski                                   Chairman, Managing Board
[Signature illegible]                                        DIRECTOR
[Signature illegible]
Graduate Engineer Bogdan Traczyk
DEPUTY MAYOR
Zbigniew Leraczyk
[Signature illegible]



- 53 -
PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN AQUA' AND THE MUNICIPALITY OF BIESKO-BLALA
(Annex to the Agreement of 30 January 1995)
 1. The Municipal Company AQUA Spolka Akcyjna of Bielsko-Biala (AQUA) has negotiated
a loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) in support of
programs to: (a) rehabilitate, improve and expand water and wastewater services in Bielsko-Biala; and
(b) strengthen the management, administration and operation of AQUA.2
 2. The agreement concluded on January 30, 1995 between AQUA and the municipality of
Bielsko-Biala establishes general terms of the mutual obligations of the parties regarding the
implementation of the World Bank supported project.
 3. Further to the January 30, 1995 agreement, this Performance Agreement sets forth specific
management, operational and financial performance objectives which AQUA intends to achieve during
the next five years and commitments by the municipality of Bielsko-Biala represented by the municipal
authorities to support AQUA in reaching them.
 4. The duration of this agreement will be five years, beginning January 1, 1996.
Service Plans, Targets and Quality
 5. AQUA commits itself to the rehabilitation, improvement and modernization of its facilities
to provide first rate water and wastewater services to its customers, specifically:
(i)   with respect to water supply services: to provide by no later than December 31, 1998
water which consistently meets the applicable Polish water quality standards on a 24-hour
basis at a minimum pressure of 10 m, i.e., 0.1 MPa, measured by a water meter installed
at the highest point,
(ii)   with respect to wastewater collection: (a) provide by 2000 satisfactory service to 90 % of
the population served by water supply; and (b) support programs to control the incidence
of environmental contamination from on-site sanitary installations in areas not served by
AQUA sewerage system;
(iii) with respect to combined sewer overflows: reduce by December 31, 1999 the incidence of
overflows to the amount acceptable by Polish standards; i.e., 5 per year;
(iv)  with respect to wastewater treatment: provide primary and secondary biological treatment3
for all wastewater generated by AQUA's customers after the completion of the Wapienica
and Komorowice wastewater treatment plant projects supported under the World Bank loan.
1/ The water and wastewater enterprise of Bielsko-Biala.
2/ In accordance with the project description contained in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement betwee AQUA and the World Bank.
3/ Maximum permissible levels: Biological Oxygen Demand - 30 mg/I; Chemical Oxygen Demand - 150 mg/[; and Total
Suspended Solids - 50 mg/I.



- 54 -
(v)   with respect to industrial effluent entering AQUA's sewer system: ensure that industrial
wastewater entering AQUA's sewerage system complies with established effluent standards
by tightening monitoring and control processes. The Municipality will assist AQUA in this
endeavor by enforcing applicable norms regarding the pre-treatment on industrial
wastewater effluent.
Customer Service and Attention
 6. AQUA commits itself to provide at all times courteous, timely attention to customers
including prompt and effective response to reasonable questions, information needs, service requests or
complaints customers may present. By no later than December 31, 1997, AQUA will develop and
implement a customer information and service system with the following characteristics:
(i)    Standards of Service and Customer Regulations document which sets forth the mutual rights
and obligations of AQUA and its customers, including standards/maximum response times
for providing customer services;4
(ii)   Computerized, integrated billings and customer management information system which
would provide AQUA's customer personnel immediate access to account information, e.g.,
history of consumption and payments, technical data of connection and meter file;
(iii) Computerized system, including a telephone "water customer hotline", capable of recording
customer requests for service, queries or complaints and the response by AQUA and
assembling statistics of these records (e.g., number of complaints, average time to process,
percentage solved to the customer's satisfaction), and use of these statistics to define and
monitor internal performance objectives and staff/manager evaluation criteria.
(iv)  the organization of public hearings prior to major decisions such as undertaking major
investment or adjusting tariffs during open meetings of the Economic Policy Committee of
Bielsko-Biala City Council attended by the heads of residential councils.
Service/System Reliability
1 7. AQUA intends to carry out replacement, repair and modernization investments as well as
timely preventative and routine maintenance, inspection and monitoring programs on its water and sewer
service networks, pumping and storage facilities to ensure a continuous supply of water at adequate
pressures and collection of wastewater. It will also improve the layout and condition of valves and other
fittings on the water network ensuring that a pipe failure does not require extended service interruptions
for a large number of customers. Indicators of achievement of this objective are as follows:
(i)   reduction of water pipe breaks (pipe failure) per 100 km/year from 70 currently to 45
breaks per 100 km by 2000;
(ii)   reduction of sewer breaks (sewer failure) per 100 kn/year from 25 currenly to 10 breaks
per 100 km by 2000;
41 Predicted maximum times of execution: New water/wastewater connection, understood as making of an incision ordered to be
performed by AQUA: 2 weeks; processing of an administrative change regarding an existing connection (e.g., new customer):
S days; investigation of a high-consumption report/complaint: 7 days; repair of a leak reported by a customer: 2 days.



- 55 -
(iii)  rehabilitation/replacement of deficient and construction of new water mains per year:
6 km in 1996,
6 km in 1997,
6 km in 1998,
6 km in 1999,
6 km in 2000;
(iv)  rehabilitation/replacement of deficient and construction of new sewer lines per year:
5 kmn in 1996,
5 km in 1997,
5 km in 1998, and
5 km in 1999;
(v)   reduction of water supply service failures (interruption of water service by more than 4
hours) from present 300 customer incidents in 1994 to 260 customer incidents in 1996, 240
customer incidents in 1997, 220 customer incidents in 1998, 200 customer incidents in
1999, 180 customer incidents in 2000;
(vi)  reduction of low pressure incidents (less than 10 m) from present ca. 300 incidents in 1994
to 250 incidents in 1996, 200 incidents in 1997, 150 incidents in 1998, 100 incidents in
1999, 50 incidents in 2000.
Demand Management
 8. AQUA commits itself to continue the use of individual household water meters in all new
buildings, individual metering of all industrial and large commercial consumers, gradual introduction of
individual household meters where compatible with existing building structures,. meter testing and
replacement programs, education and/or supervision of plumbing contractors, advice to industrial users
on opportunities for water-saving process changes or water recycling, etc. in order to encourage resource
conservation and bring down average water use to an efficient level in line with European comparators.
Specific targets are:
(i)   100 % of large-customer (1000 m3/mth) meters tested every 4 years according to Polish
standards;
(ii)   8 % of domestic meters changed per year;
(iii)  10 % of domestic meters tested per year.
Internal Efflciency and Productivity Improvemnts
 9. AQUA will undertake comprehensive programs to raise the efficiency and productivity of its
operations, in order to alleviate the upward trend of costs and service prices. Specifics of this program
are to be defined, with the assistance of consultants to be engaged under the World Bank funded project,
following studies to be completed by December 31, 1997. The following targets are prelimninary and will
be updated as a result of the studies:
(i)   reduction of annual ratio of non-revenue water (water produced minus water billed, divided
by water produced), from the current 45 % level to 35 % in 2000;



- 56 -
(ii)  reduction of energy consumption for water production and distribution from a present 0.65
KWh used per m3 of water produced to 0.64 KWh in 1997, 0.63 KWh in 1998 and 0.60
KWh in 2000;
(iii)  reduction of energy consumption of wastewater collection and treatment from a present 0.15
KWh used per m3 of wastewater collected and treated to 0.14 KWh in 1997, 0.14 KWh in
1998 and 0.12 KWh in 2000.
 10. AQUA will continue to improve the productivity of its staff through training programs and
performance incentives accompanied by programs of staff efficiency gains which will reduce the number
of employees per thousand population served divided by the length in kilometers of the water and
wastewater network served by one employee from a present 0.97 to 0.87 in 2000.
 11. AQUA will continue to manage its construction department in a self financing manner, i.e.,
charging prices at or below prevailing construction costs in the regional market. If the construction can
no longer match price levels offered by private contractors, the department may find it necessary to reduce
the size of or, if necessary dissolve the department.
Finandal Performance
 12. To maintain its financial viability and be able to carry the envisioned investments, AQUA
commits itself to maintaining a satisfactory financial position at all times. Attachments 1 (Balance Sheet)
and 2 (Income Statement) present financial projections for the 1996-2000 period which would allow that.
The table shown below presents annual financial performance indicators which AQUA must attain to
maintain a satisfactory financial position. AQUA commits itself to ensuring the maintenance of these
indicators through a combination of revenue increases and expenditure decreases. Annually, AQUA will
update financial projections with a special view if any tariff or other adjustments are necessary to maintain
compliance with the financial indicators listed below (define according to the 'Handbook for Financial
Projections and Analysis for Corporation Utilities in Water Supply" - UNDP/World Bank, RAS/86/160,
December 1992):
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
Working Ratio (no more than)                0.64   0.63    0.62   0.61       0.60
Debt Service Coverage Ratio (no less than)  8.5    8.0      4.0    4.0       3.5
Current Ratio (no less than)                3.0    3.0      3.0    3.0        3.0
Debt: Equity Ratio (no more than)           0.17    0.17    0.17   0.17      0.17
Tariff Settng and Collection
 13. To be able to achieve the financial performance indicators shown above AQUA will need
increased tariff income which in turn will require tariff increases in real terms. AQUA and the
municipality of Bielsko-Biala agree to annual tariff increases for the core services connected with water
supply and wastewater collection in the area of the Municipality in accordance with the following indexing
formula which distinguishes between increases in real terms and those necessitated by inflationary cost
increases:



- 57 -
k = T4X [0.4w  +0.2Et+O.4C' ]x(1+k,)U
where:
T,, is the tariff for a cubic meter of water or wastewater/rainwater or a monthly rate for
maintenance of a water meter as of January 1 of year t for customer category/water-meter
type i; and Ti,O the tariff as of 1 February 1995 for the same customer category/water-meter
type, where in case of cancelling separate payments for entering of rainwater into the sewer
system, Ti,, is a tariff for wastewater as on 1 February 1995 increased by an amount equal
to a quotient of income from payments for getting rainwater into the sewer system planned
in 1995 and the volume of wastewater planned for entering the sewer system in 1995 (in
cubic meters);
W, and W. are the latest published indexes of average wages and their forecasts in a sector
of companies, respectively on 1 January of year t and 1 February 1995 (on the basis of an
announcement of the President of the Main Office of Statistics as published in "Monitor
Polski" regarding average monthly wages in the sector of companies and forecasted as an
average from the last three months);
Et, E.; C,/C.; similarly defined indexes representative of applicable energy costs and index
of construction prices (acc. to Biuletyn Statystyczny/Statistical Bulletin of the Main Office
of Statistics monthly indexes of growth of the following, respectively: "prices of sold
output in the sphere of energy, gas, steam and hot water supply' and also 'prices of
construction and assembly production" which are forecasted as an average from the last
three months);
for each category of customer/water-meter type i, k;1 is a real-term adjustment factor and
reflects (a) the need to gradually raise tariffs in real terms to meet the incremental cost of
new quality/environmental requirements, net of the effect of expected efficiency gains; (b)
the need to rebalance the tariff structure in order to reduce existing cross-subsidization
between classes of users over given time5
n = t - is the subsequent year number after 1995 (from 1 to 5)
./  The fnancial projections postulate that the following K factors need to be applied to ensure AQUA's satisfactory financial
performance and gradually reduce the gap between domestic and industrial tariffs:
Water                                  Wastewuer
Year                      1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    1996    1997    1991   1999    2000
Domusic:                +0.1630 +0.1252 +0.1105 +0.1015 +0.0952 +0.1154 +0.0631 +0.0713 +0.0649 +0.0607
Industial: economic acdvity,  +0.0270  -0.0030  -0.0131  -0.0185  -0.0219 +0.0392  -0.0092  -0.0008  -0.0058  -0.0089
Including ihtriasI
Public: odier (wholsalers    +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +006   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06
excl., adminitaion incd.)
Avage:                   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06   +0.06
water meers
All wpes                 +0.06  1+0.06  1+0.06  1+0.06  1o+006



- 58 -
 14. The tariffs for water and wastewater/rainwater and water meters will be adjusted once a
year in time for the January billings in accordance with the above formula. AQUA's Management Board
shall have full authority to make these adjustments as long as required tariff adjustments do not exceed
the level resulting from formula specified in  13. Only when AQUA considers necessary price increases
exceeding the level provided by the formula, as mentioned in  2,  3 of the Agreement mentioned in 
2 is applicable.
 15. The Municipality confinns its full support for effective collection of tariffs by AQUA. In
particular, it will uphold AQUa's right to discontinue service after appropriate notice in accordance with
the Civil Code provisions for delinquent customers. In the event that for social reasons the Municipality
requests that AQUA continue service delivery for a customer or group of customers in arrears, the
Municipality will reimburse AQUA for the sums due by these customers before the normal date of the
service cut.
 16. Likewise, any request by the Municipality to AQUA to provide free or discounted services
to any persons, associations or enterprises for social or other reasons will be acted upon by AQUA only
after it receives from the Municipality full financial compensation for the lost revenues arising from this
request.
 17. In order to enable AQUA to meet its service and financial targets, the Municipality of
Bielsko-Biala agrees that for the period of this Agreement AQUA shall not pay dividends to shareholders,
but retain its eamnings for reinvestment in its core water and wastewater business and the structure if this
reinvestment will be agreed by AQUA and the Municipality of Bielsko-Biala.
Signed on: 29 December 1995
for AQUA                                                               for Municipality
(stamp)                                                               (stamp)
President of the                                                       MAYOR of the CITY
Managment Board                                                        Zbigniew Leraczyk
DIRECTOR                                                               (illegible signature)
Bogdan Traczyk, Msc
(illegiblk signature)                                                 DEPUTY MAYOR of
the CITY
Marian Antonik
(illegible signature)
(rectangular stamp)
MUNICIPAL COMPANY
AQUA
Joint Stock Company
23, 1 Maja Street, phone: 240-11 to 15
43-300 BIELSKO-BIALA
(bottom rigbt, stamp)
HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
Jan Krzeminsli, Msc
(ilkgible signatre)
(flegible signature)



ANNEX G
PROCUREMENT PLAN
Table Gl: Procurement Plan
Time Table
Total       Procurement
Comp                  Description              coat          Method            Docs               Subm.    Contr.      Work
Compltd.    of      Prop.   Signature  Initiated
Docs.
WATER SUPPLYk'
A. 1. 1. Zlote Lany Pump/Transm..           1.2     reserved by AQUA           first bidding to be initiated: 10/96
A.2.1  Treatment Plants Rehab.                      to be determined
civil works                       0.3    several NCB, IS, NS            first bidding initiated: 6/97 i
equipment/materials               0.3          contmcts
A.2.2   Waplenica WTP Rehab                          to be determined
civil works                       0.6    several NCB, IS, NS             first bidding initiated: 3/97
equipment/materials               0.2          contracts
A.3.   Water System Rehab Program                   to be determined.
civil works                       2.5    several NCB and NS              first bidding initiated: 1/97
equipment/materials               4.6          contracts
WASTEWATER
B. 1    Completion Wastewater CoDectors     3.3    reserved by AQUA               first bidding initiated: 6/96
B.2.1   Komorowice Wastewater Plant b/
civil works                       4.2      ICB supply/install      5/96      7/96     9/96      11/96       2/97
equipment/materials                5.8
B.2.2 Wapienica Wastewater Plant
civil works                        1.4     ICB supply/install      5/96      7/96     9/96      11/96       2/97
equipment/materials                1.8
B.3.   Wastewater System Rehab. Program              to be determined,
civil works                        1.3    several NCB and NS                   first bid initiated: 9/97
equipment/mlterials                2.0         contracts
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE and TRAINING
C      Institutional Strengthening          1.0     I contract - short list  5/96     6/96     9/96      12/96       1/97
ENGINEERING SERVICES
D.l    Water and wastewater system
rehabilitation and improvement      2.5     1 contract - short list  2/96     3/96     5/96       6/96       8/96
D.2    Final Designs                       0.6    1 contract - sole soure
Supervision of Construction                    continuation         3/96      4/96     6/96       7/96       9/96
1.9    I contrtct - short list
a - except for contract for Wapienicaprotection dam which has already been signed and qualifies for retroactive financing
b - prequalification to be completed before call for tenders.



- 60 -



ANNEX H
DISBURSEMENTS
Table Hl: Loan Allocation Schedule
Category                             Amount of    Amount of  Expenditure to be
Loan         Loan          Financed
(US$)        (DM)
100 % of foreign
expenditures,
100 % of local
(1) Goods                            4,200,000     4,400,000   expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85 % of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2) Works under Parts A.2, A.3 and
B.3 of the Project              2,800,000     3,200,000        70 %
(3) Works under Part B.2 of the
Project                          1,100,000    1,200,000        30 %
(4) Consultants' Services and
training under Part C of the     400,000       600,000         90 %
Porject
(5) Engineering Services under Part
D of the Project                 1,800,000    2,000,000        90 %
(6) Unallocated                      1,700,000     1,800,000
Total                 12,000,000    13,200,000



- 62 -



ANNEX I
AGREEMENT BETWEEN AQUA and VOVOIDSHIP ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT
AGREEMENT
Concluded on May 10, 1995 in Bielsko-Biala
between:
The VOIVODSHIP AUTHORITY OF BIELSKO-BIALA
represented by: mgr ini. Jan Zaluski
and
The Communal Enterprise "AQUA" S.A.
represented by:
mgr ini Bogdan Traczyk
on the implementation of a strategic program to improve the water and wastewater systems of
Bielsko-Biala (1995-2004)
1
The Communal Enterprise 'AQUA" S.A. is comrnmitting itself to an investment program for water and
wastewater:
1)  water supply for:
- monitoring the quality of water resources,
- bringing water quality up to international standards,
- water distribution, limiting water waste as much as possible, application of modem monitoring
equipment
2)  waste water:
- expansion and construction of the sewer systems, infiltration and inflow reduction and of the
rehabilitation of the existing collection system for Kmorowice and Wapienica,
- completion of the construction of the sewage treatment plant in Wapienica,
- a staged expansion of the sewage treatment plant in Wapienica to a capacity that would enable
total sewage treatment for Bielsko-Biala.
The above program is going to be implemented in accordance with a time-table agreed with the World
Bank, mostly from its credits and the resources of "AQUA" S.A., under the supervision of the World
Bank.



- 64 -
2
THE VOIVODSHIP AUTHORITY
1)  will show understanding and a will to cooperate in the implementation of the program, and
particularly in evaluating the project drafts, in coordinating and issuing legal permits, showing an
understanding toward the implementation of the investment project as presented by the World Bank,
the lender.
2) will agree to issue a legal permit for the construction of facilities and conveyance of sewage for the
stages of expansion of the sewage treatment plant at Komorowice, for which technical projects are
going to be worked out consistent with the expansion program presented in the enclosed study.
3)  in case the Communal Enterprise "AQUA" S.A. acquires a group of fishery ponds, the Voivodship
Authority will not object against issuing a legal permit for agricultural utilization of sewage to prop
up those ponds, provided that the treated sewage conforms to the standards set out in the Ruling of
the Ministry of Environmental Protection regarding agricultural utilization of sewage (MP. NR
23/1986, item 170).
[seals]:
THE VOIVODSHIP AUTHORITY                      COMMUNAL ENTERPRISE
"AQUA S.A.
signed by                                   signed by
Director and
mgr inz. Jan Zaluski                       Chairman of the Board
mgr ink. Bogdan Traczyk
[Polish original on file]



ANNEX J
MONITORING INDICATORS
Table JI: Monitoring Indicators
1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2001   2002
Population (000)                       194      195     197      198     199    201    202
Percentage of Population Served:
Water                             98%     98%      98%     98%      98%    98%    98%
Wastewater                        83%     84%      84%     85%      86%    86%    89%
Unaccounted for Water                 35%      34%     33%      30%     27%    25%    25%
Wastewater Treatment Capacity Rate a    38%    38%     38%    100%    100%   100%   100%
Employees/000 Population Served        2.9      2.8     2.7      2.7     2.6    2.5    2.5
Average Tariffs (in 1996 PLN)
Water
Residential                      .4800   .5300   .5800   .6300   .6900  .7600  .8400
Industrial                      2.0900  2.2000  2.3100  2.4200  2.5400 2.4400 2.3300
Wastewater
Residential                      .4000   .4400   .4800   .5300   .5600  .6400  .7100
Industrial                      1.5700  1.6500  1.7400  1.8300   1.9100  1.8400 1.7500
Working Ratio                         0.57    0.53    0.50    0.47    0.39   0.39   0.39
a - to prevailing Polish effluent standards: BOD5 = 30 mg/I, COD = 150 mg/I, TSS = 50 mg/l



- 66 -



ANNEX K
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS & MODEL ASSUMPTIONS
BALANCE SHEET
(billion Pzl)                   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999    2000   2001   2002   2003   2004    2005
ASSETS
CLRRENT ASSETS
U.nrestricted Cash                30.1   111.3  205.6  250.0  289.4  489.1  742.2 1,054.0 1,357.2 1,667.8 1,858.4 2,068.3  2,303.8
Restricted Cash                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
Accounts Receivable               24.0   49.7   70.1   87.3  103.3  120.0  136.9  153.3  162.6  172.4  182.6  193.2   204.3
FrovIsion for DubtfulAccounts     0.0   (2.5)   (3.5)   (4.4)   (5.2)   (8.0)   (8.8)   (7.7)   (8.1)   (8.8)   (9.1)   (9.7)  (10.2)
hventory                          12.8   16.0   14.3   14.4   13.5   11.8   12.8   11.3   12.0   12.7   13.4   14.3    15.1
Other CurrentAssets                7.4    9.6   11.9   14.0   15.7   17.3   18.7   19.8   21.0   22.2   23.8   25.0    28.5
TOTAL CURRENTASSETS               74.3  184.2  298.4  3e1.5  418.7  632.2  003.7 1,230.7 1,544.7 1,88a.5 2.06e.9 2291.1  2,539.5
F>ed Assets                     1,921.3 2557.1  3,220.8 3,880.5 4,577.0 5,533.9 6,253.7 6,805.4 7,383.2 7,995.3 8,595.0 9,385.1 10,19e.6
(Accumiulated Depreciation)      427.3  502.3  596.7  709.9  844.1  1,006.4  1,189.8 1,389.3 1,e05.8 1,840.2 2,092.2 2,368.8  2,685.8
Net DepreciableAssets           1,494.0 2,054.8  2,624.0 3,150.8 3,732.8 4,527.5 5,083.9 5,418.1  5,777.4 6,155.0 8,502.7 6,998.2  7,530.8
Work in Progress                  61.9   52.5   62.5  255.7  501.7  279.5  179.0  172.0  171.5  122.5  256.9  272.2   288.3
Other Long TermAssets              1.5    2.0    2.4    2.9    3.2    3.8    3.8    4.1    4.3    4.6    4.8    5.1             5.4
TOTAL ASSETS                    1,631.7 2.293.5 2,987.4 3,770.6 4,654.5 5,442.8 6,150.5 6,822.9 7,498.0 8,148.8 8,831.4 9,56a.6 10,384.1
LIABILITIES AND ECUTY
CLRRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                   3.7    4.7   19.8   23.8   26.4   28.8   30.8   28.8   27.9   29.4   30.9   32.5    34.5
Long Term Debt, Current            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   43.3   U8.9   91.4   93.9   98.6    98.8
Other OCrrent LiabWties            9.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
TOTAL CLRRENT LIABILITIES         13.4    4.7   19.8   23.8   2e.4   28.8   30.8   69.8  116.8  120.8  124.9  129.1   131.1
LongTermDebt                       0.0    0.0    0.0  115.6  440.5  671.9  806.8  868.5  889.3  832.8  784.9  692.7   618.7
Special Funds and Deposits         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
Reserves                           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                 13.4    4.7   19.8  139.4  488.9  700.7  837.6  938.4  986.1  953.6  889.8  821.8   749.8
Equity Fund Account
Contrbuted EuRy                 1,294.8  1,294.6 1,294.8  1,294.6  1,294.6  1,294.6 1,294.8  1,294.6  1,294.6 1,294.6  1,294.6 1,294.6  1,294.6
Retained hncorre                   7.7  101.8  166.9  250.8  343.9  440.7  588.8  765.2  984.2  1,224.4 1,491.3 1,778.7  2,086.4
Surpkus on FDced Assets Ftevaluatlon    316.0  892.4 1,506.1 2,085.9 2,549.1  3,006.8 3,449.5 3,824.8 4,233.1 4,676.1 5,155.8 5,871.5  6,233.4
TOTAL LIALITIES ANDOCUTY    1*,831.7 2,293.5 2,987.4  3,770.7 4,64.5 5,442.9 86,150.5 6,822.9 7,498.0 8,148.7 8,831.4 9,586.7 10,34.2



- 68 -
INCOMESTATEABT
(billion Pzl)                     1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999    2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Revenue
Water                              151.7  184.6  259.9  325.9  387.4  452.2  518.3  582.9  817.5  654.0  891.8  731.3   772.2
Wastewater                          57.9   84.3  126.0  158.1   188.6  221.0  254.4  287.1   305.3  324.2  344.5  364.8  388.5
Other                               30.8   40.0   49.8   58.5   65.8   72.1   77.9   82.8   87.5   92.8   98.3  104.2  110.5
Total Operating Revenue            240.4  308.9  435.5  542.5  641.6  745.4  850.6  952.8  1,010.3 1,070.9 1,134.4 1,200.3  1,269.2
Operating Expenses
Personnel                           84.0   79.7   99.8  117.4  131.1   143.7  154.8   163.5  172.8  185.0  198.1  212.1  227.0
Bectricity                          27.0   32.1   42.6   53.5   58.2   82.1   64.8   68.4   68.6   70.8   73.2   75.8   80.4
Materials                           33.2   38.2   47.3   55.9   62.6   68.8   74.3   78.8   83.5   88.5   93.8   99.5  105.4
Repairs                             13.0   10.1    12.5   14.7    16.5   18.2   19.8   20.8   22.1    23.4   24.8   26.3   27.8
Other                               28.9   45.2   56.1   66.2   74.1   81.5   88.1    46.7   49.5   52.4   55.6   58.9   62.5
Total Operating Expenses           184.1  205.3  258.3  307.7  342.5  374.4  401.8  378.2  396.4  420.2  445.5  472.5  503.1
Losses on Receivables                0.0    2.5    1.0    0.9    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.8
Income Before Depreciation          76.2  101.1   176.2  234.0  298.4  370.1  448.2  575.8   613.4  650.2  688.3  727.3  785.5
Depreciation                        73.9   75.0   94.4  113.2  134.2  162.3  183.4  199.5  218.5  234.4  252.0  274.8  299.0
Net Operating Income                 2.3   26.2   81.7  120.8  164.2  207.9  284.8  378.0  397.0  415.8  436.3  452.7  486.5
Interest Expense                     0.0    0.0    0.0   18.0   24.8   44.5   58.9   64.8   69.3   69.4   85.6   60.8   55.3
FX Losses/(Gains) on Long Term Debt  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.1   30.9   33.8   28.5   25.9   27.5   26.0   24.4   22.8
Other Non-operating Expense          0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Interest on Investrrents            25.7   43.8   26.7   37.0   30.0   28.9   39.1    44.5   63.2    81.4  100.1  111.4  124.1
Other Non-operating hIcorre         33.6   57.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Income Before Taxes                 81.8  127.5   108.5  139.8  155.2  181.4  213.4  327.4  365.0  400.3  444.8  479.1  518Z
Taxes                               60.1    33.4   43.4   55.9   62.1   64.5   85.4  131.0  140.0   160.1   177.9   191.8  205.1
Net Income                           1.6   94.1   85.1    83.9   93.1    96.8  128.1   198.4  219.0  240.2  266.9  287.5  307.7
SOLRCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNS
(billion Pzl)                         1993   1994   1996   1996   1997   1998   1999    2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
Net Income                               1.6   94.1   65.1   83.9   93.1   96.8  128.1  198.4  219.0  240.2  266.9  287.5   307.7
Add:
Depreciation                           73.9   75.0   94.4  113.2  134.2  182.3  183.4  199.5  216.5  234.4  25Zo   274.6   299.0
Reserve Contribution                    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.         o 0.0    0.0    0.o    0.0    0.0
Special Fund Contribution               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Foreign Exchange Losses on Long Term Debt    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.1   30.9   33.6   28.5   25.9   27.5   26.0   24.4    22.6
Less:
Workhig Capital Requirennts            17.0   37.4    4.7   14.7   13.3   13.4   18.4   19.5    9.3    9.8   10.3   10.7    10.9
Debt Repaymnnt (Rincipal)               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   43.3   88.9   91.4   93.9   96.6
Internal Funds Available for Investment  58.5  131.7  154.8  182.4  228.2  276.6  328.6  405.0  408.8  403.5  443.3  481.8   521.7
Capital Expenditure                     59.4   50.0   60.0  253.2  499.2  277.0  178.5  169.5  169.0  120.0  254.4  269.7  285.8
Purchase(sale)ofother orngtermassets     1.5    0.5    0.5    0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.3          0.3
Required Financing                       2.4  -81.3  -94.3   71.2  271.4    0.8  -151.8  -235.3  -239.5  -283.2  -188.8  -211.9  -235.5
Loans
NFOS                                    0.0    0.0    0.0   58.2  133.7   19.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0
IBRD                                    0.0    0.0    0.0   57.4  177.0  180.8  101.3   76.5   63.6   27.4    0.0    0.0    0.0
Contributions
Muncipality                             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Other                                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Financing                          0.0    0.0    0.0  115.6  310.7  200.5  101.3   76.5   63.8   27.4    0.0    0.0    0.0
Change In Cash                          -2.4   81.3   94.3   44.4   39.3  199.7  253.1  311.8  303.3  310.6  188.6   211.9   235.5



- 69 -
SELECTED INCOMEAND CASH FLOW DATA
(billion Pzl unless Indicated otherwise)  1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002   2003   2004   2006
Total Operating Revenue                   240.4  308.9  435.5  542.5  641.6  745.4  850.6  952.6 1,010.3  1,070.9  1,134.4  1,200.3  1,269.2
Total Operating Expenses                  164.1  205.3  258.3  307.7  342.5  374.4  401.6  376.2  396.4  420.2  445.5  472.5  503.1
Depreciation                               73.9   75.0   94.4  113.2  134.2  162.3  183.4  199.5  216.5  234.4  252.0  274.6  299.0
Net Operating Incone                        2.3   26.2   81.7  120.8  164.2  207.9  264.8  376.0  397.0  415.8  436.3  452.7  466.5
Total Operating Revenue per M3 sold (Zloty)  7,563  9,837  13,798  17,176  20,302  23,570  26,882  30,089  31.897  33,794  35,780  37,843  39,999
Cost(O&Mplus Deprc.) per n 3sold (Zloty)  7,490  8,925 11,176  13,325  15,082  16,970  18,486  18,186  19,350  20,657  22,001  23,554  25,279
Return on Assets                          0.3%    1.5%   3.5%   4.2%    4.8%    5.0%    5.5%    7.2%    7.1%    7.0%    6.9%    6.7%    6.4%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                      12.0   10.7    7.5    7.1    7.6    4.7    3.6    3.9    4.2    4.5
Current Ratio                               5.5   39.6   15.1   15.2   15.8   21.9   29.3   17.6   13.2   15.5   16.6   17.7    19.4
DebtEquity Ratio                           0.00   0.00   0.00   0.03    0.11    0.14    0.15    0.15    0.13    0.12    0.10    0.08    0.06
Contribution to hIvestment                 98%   263%   258%    72%    46%   100%   186%   239%   242%   336%   174%   179%   183%
vWorWing Ratio                             68%    66%    59%    57%    53%    50%    47%    39%    39%    39%    39%    39%    40%
Capital Expenditure                        59.4   50.0   60.0  253.2  499.2  277.0  176.5   169.5  169.0  120.0  254.4  269.7  285.8
Borrowings                                  0.0    0.0    0.0  115.6  310.7  200.5   101.3   76.S   63.8   27.4    0.0    0.0    0.0
Tar11 Icreases (reaD - Hi                        -2.8%  24.3%   9.9%    9.7%    9.4%    9.5%   10.1%    9.7%   10.1%    9.9%   10.2%   10.0%
- Industry and cornrrcial     -4.0%   12.6%   4.8%    5.1%    5.0%    5.0%    4.9%   -3.8%   -4.6%   -5.4%   -6.4%   -7.5%



- 70 -
1993    1994    1995    1995    1997    1998    1999         2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    205
POPLLATION
Actual                                                            189,S85
Forecastchnigenpopubtaon                                                   0.70%   0.70%    0.70%    070%    0.70%    070%    0)70%    070%    0.70%    0.70%    0.70%    0.70%
Fbpubtrtn                                                         189.885  191,214  192,552 193.900  195.258 198,824 198,001  199,387 200.782 202.1898  203.903 205,028  20.49t4
RESIDENTIAL CLJSTOMtS
Water Service
%of popultionwlwaterservic      a            .       .    .................... Ac1u       i                                                         _ 9S.0%
Forecastc chage h percentage served                                          0.0%    00%      00%     0 0%     0.0%    0.0%    0.0%      0.0%    0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0%
Canwtedp,cere    ofespopupttnw/waetersrvice                      95.0%   98.0%   88.0%    98.0%    98.0%    98.0%    98.0%    98.0%   9S.0%    98.0%    98.0%    98.0%    9S.0%
Residenba watwr custrnurs                                         18S.087  187,390  188,701  190,022  191.352  192,692  194.041  195,399  195,797  198,144  199.531  200.929  202.334
Wastewater Service
% of custfrs wlwastewater servce-- Actuai 83.3
Forwsastchangei percesrtage servd                                           0.8%     0.9%    1.2%     1.2%     1.2%    1.2%     1.2%    0.8%     0.9%     0.9%    0.8%    0.9%
Coffwerd percentage ao  reskhtswiwatercustors wlwastewater aervce   83.3%    84.0%    54.9%   85.7%    8S.7%    57.8%    88.9%    90.0%    90.7%    91.4%    92.1%    92.9%   93.6%
Residwnbatwastewat sr cutonurs                                    155,000 157,334  159,702  182.799  18I.955  169,172  172,451  175,794  179,441  151,128  1S3S95  188,923  18a,433
WATER SALES
rreated Water                                                     1953    1994    195    1999    1997    199e         n99s     2000    2000    2002    2003    2004    20f5
Residential sales
Dailw wter consurrptios per capta (Vcld) -- Actual                   1S5      10               17S     178      17 4   S1                        166     164       12      1
Forecast chane in cnsiptin|                                                          0.0% 
Cafrputed daly water consunpiosn per capita (V/rd)                   185      190     190      178     176      174      172     170    18       1S6      164      162     190
Rasidwntl sales(000rrO)                                            12.533   12,311   12.398  12,346   12,292   12,238   12.192   12.125  12,050   12.003   11,944   11,81   11,916d
Rasideofb sales (m/lday)                                           34,337   33,730  33,996   33,824   33,978  33,528  33,375  33,218  33,057  32,892   32,723  32,550C  32,374
Industrial sates
Actual (000 m3)                                                     9,0oi    8.929
Forecast change nhisales                                                             0.0%    0.0%     0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0%     0.0%
hIdustrlai sats (OD rn3)                                            9,016   9,829   8.829  89829    8,929    8,829             8,829   9,829    9,829   8,929              8,89 9,929    9,929
hkdusati sales (irrday)                                           24,702   24,189  24,189  24.189  24.189  24,189  24,189  24.189  24.189  24.189  24,189  24,189   24,189
Government and commercisl sates
Actual (000 m3)                                                     1.744   1,720
Forecast chaVgie sales                                                               0.7%    0.7%    0.7%      0.7%    0.7%    0.7%     0.7%     0.7%    07%      0.7%    0.7%
Goowernrnt and comniurcrl sales (0D005r)                            1,744    1,720    1,732    1,744    1.758    1,769   1.781    1.793    1,908    1,819    1,831    1,844    1,857
Govmenit end cofrnurckei sales (r5/day)                            4,779    4,712    4,745    4,779    4,812    4,9e    4,879   4.914    4.94t    4,983   58018    5.053    5,088
Other sates
Actual (000 55)                                                    8.487   8,548      _
Forecast chEa in shes                                                                0.7%    0.7%     0.7%     0.7%    0.7%     0.7%    0.7%    0.7%     0.7%     0.7%     0.7%
Othw saets (000 m3)                                                8.487    8,546    8,808  -8,96    8,727    8,788    8,850   8.912   8,974   9,037    9,100    9.184    9.228
O8wv sales (ri3day)                                               23.252  23,415   23,579  23,744   23,910   24.077  24,246  24,416  24,587  24,759  24.932   25,108  25,282
TOTALTlATEDWWATEFtSALES(O0D0m3)                                   31,791   31,407  31,595   31.585   31,905   31,624   31,842   31,8559  31,675  31,690   31,704   31,718   31,730
TOTAL T5EATMWATERSALES(m3fday)                                    87,070  89,048   88.479  8e,535   88,589  88,640  88,889  89,736   8t,780  86,922   898,82   8t.898  86,933
Chrange i tot treatedw aer shes                                            -1.2%     0.5%    0.1%    0.1%      0.1%    0.1%     0.1%    0.1%     00%     0.0%    0.0%      0.0%
Pa w wtts
Actual (000 rn3)
Forecast chage hI saes,
TOTALRAWWATt SALES(000m3)                                              0        0       0        0 0     0        0                         0       0        0       0        0



- 71 -
WATEFTAaFFS
Treated Water
Residential tariff
Actual average tarff (Pzltn,)                      1,900   2,400   3,700
Forecastchangeintarff(inrealterrr)                                          100%    100%    100%   100%    100%    100%    10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   100%
Resdential tardf (PZVrTL3)                         1,900   2,400   3,700   4,800   5,900   7,100   8,400   9.800  11,400  13,300   15,500  18.100  21,100
Conpuledchangeintarff(nreallerrns)                         -2.8%   24.3%   10.0%   1000%    100%    100%    10.0%   10-0%   10.0%   10.0h  100%    10.0%
Industrial tariff
Actual average tariff (PzVn,3)                     9,700  12,100   16,900
Forecast chanrge i tarfff (m real laras)                                    5.0%    5.0%    5 0%     50%    5.0%   -3 9%   -4 6%   -5.5%   -6.5%   -7 5%
Industral tarff (PzVrr3)                           9,700  12,100  16,900  20,900  24,600  28,400  32,200  35,800  36,500  36,900  37,000  36,700  36,000
Conrputed change itarif (n real terms)                      4.0%    12.6%    5.0%    5.0%    50%     5.0%    5.0%   -3.96   -4.6%    -5.5%   -65%    -7.5%
RatdofhdustrbiresidenliaIltarNfs                     5.1     5.0      46      4.4     42       40      3.8     37       32      28      24      20      1.7
Government and commercial tariff
Actual average lariff (PzVrnr3)                    4.200   5,200   9,100
Forecast change in lairf (n real terrrs)                                    10.0%    90%    80%    7 0%    6.5%    00%    0 0%    0.0%    0.0%A    0.0%
Governrrent ard conrercial tarif (PzVrri3)         4,200   5,200   9,100  11,800  14,400  17,100  19,800  22,400  23,700  25,100  26.600  28,200  29,900
Ccrrp,uedchangeintariff(inrealterrri)                      A48%    41.1%   10.0%    90%      8.0%    7.0%    6.5%   -0.2%   -01%      0.0%    O,0%     .0%
Other tariff
Actual average tariff (PzUmr3)                     3,900   4,600   5,700
Forecastchangentarf l(inrealterrrs)                                         50%      5.0%    50%     50%     50%      0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    00%
Other larff (PzVri3)                               3,900   4,600   5,700   7,100   8,300   9,600  10,900  12,100  12,800  13,600  14,400  15300  16,200
CoriuledchangearitrNff(nrealterrns)                        -9.3%   -0.1%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0%    5.0%    50%    -0.2%    0.2%   -0.1%    0.2%   -0.1%
AVERAGETRFtATEDwATERTAtFF(PzIlin3)                 4,773   5,879   8,234  10,318  12,259  14.301  16,382  18.412  19.494  20,638  21,813  23,056  24,338
Changeinaveragetreatedwaterlardt(nreallersm)               -53%    12.9%    62%    6.1%    6.1%    6.1%    60%    -0.1%    -0.1%    43S    0.3%    4.4%
AVERAGETREATEDWATERTARtFF(US/m3)                   0.26    0.26    035    0.37    0.39    042        0.46    0.49    050    051       0.53    054    0SS
Raw wets
Actual average tariff (PzVrn3)
Forecast change n tarff (In real lerms)
Raw waler tarff (PzVmn3)                               0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0       0       0        0       0
WATER REVENUE (billion Pzl)
Treated Water
Residenial                                          238    295       45.9    593    725    869    1023    1188    137.5   159.7   185.1   215.0   2493
hdusarial                                           875    1068    1492    184.5   2172   2507    2843    316.1   322.3   325.8   326.7   324.0   317.8
Governrrent and conrercial                           73      8.9    15.8    20.6    25.3    302       353    40.2    42.8    456    48.7    52.0   65.5
Other                                               33.1    39.3    49.1    615    724        84.4    96.5   107.8   114.9   1229    131.0   140.2   149.5
Total                                              1517    1846    2599   3259    3874   452.2   5183    5829   617.5   6540   691.6   731.3   772.2
Rawwater                                             00      00       00      00      0.0      00      00      0.0     00       0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
TOTAL WATERREVENUE                                 151.7   184.6   2599   325.9   387.4   4522    518.3   582.9   6175   654.0   891.6   731.3   772.2
ChaQengtotalwaterrevernue(nrealterrre)                      -6%      14%      6%      6%      6%       6%      6%      0%       0%      0%      0%      0%



- 72 -
WASTBNATERUthLLED                                    1993   1il4    1995    1S99    1997    199t   199         20O0    2001    2002    2003    204    2005
baldentlal
Actual (000 rn3)                                      8,923
Fncmatwasteweter bd apercentageofwatersold                     78%      78%     78%6    78%    78%      78%     78%     78%     78%      78%     78%     78%
Rlasihitm   w atew staer biled (000 rr)               8.923   9,622   9,689   9,649   9,607   9,565   9,521    9.476   9,430   9,383   9,335   9,286   9,23S
CarpAted w  iwater bled as a percertage of w Mar sold  71%     78%      78%     78%     78%     78%      78%     78%     78%     78%      78%     78%     78%
Industriat
Actual (000 mnO)                                    _ 6,266
Fcrastewastew earbiedaaparcerngeofwaersold                      76%     76%     76%     76%     76%      76%     76%     76%      76%     76%     76%     76%
iebusweitwastw str biled (000 n)                      6.266   6.735   6,735   6,735   6,735   6,735   6,735   6,735   6.735   6.735   6,735   6,735   6,735
Government and commordt
Actua (000 rn)                                         1,3
Frecat weastew ater bed s a percrt-adg of water sold           84%      65%     06%     am%    87%       88%     88%     89%      90%     90%     91%     92%
Governmrit wd ccmnrarcilwstewater blled (ODD rr3)      1.329   1,449   1,471   1,493   1,516   1,538   1,561    1,585   1,609   1,633   1,657   1,682   1,707
TOTAL WASTiWATE 3LLED 4000 m3)                        16,518  17,86  17,896  17,877  17,858  17,838  17,817  17,795  17,774  17.751   17,727  17,703  17,677
Caengentotdwa.lswaterbltd                                      7.8%    0.5%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%   -0.1%    -0.1%    41%    -0.1%   -0.1%   40.1%   -01%
WASTEvNATER TAFtFFS
bsedentld tariff
Actual venrage tarft (PzVr3)                       i1,sO0 2,000   3,1DO
Forecast change ntar?f (in real tarn)                                          100%    10.0%   10.0%   10.0%   10,0%   10.0%   100%    10.0%   10.0%    100%
Rbesiential tacit (Pizm3)                              1,500   2,000   3,10    4,000   4,900   5,900   7,000   8,200   9,600   11,20   13,100  15,3W   1t7,80
Industrial tariff
Actualaveragetrht(PzVrn3)                             6,00   9.100  12,700
Forecast change n tariff (i red tarrre)                                         5.0%    5.%    5.0%    50%     5.0%   -39%   -4.6%   -5.5%   -6.5%   -7.5%
idjIriltirnt (Print3)                                 6,700   9,10   1Z70D  15,70D   18,519  21,40O  24,30D  27,0   27,500  27,800  27,900  27,6W   27,10
Government and commerdcl tariff
Actua average tiart (Pzt3)                             1.00   2        ,600   7,100O
Fcrecat change initwif (in re term)                                            10.0%    9.0%    8.0%    7.0%    6.5%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
Goernmenrt and cmmwercd trif (Pzlkri3)                 1,900   2,6W    7,100   9,200  11,20D  13,30D  15,40   17,400   18,40D  19,50D  20,700  21,900   23,2o0
AV GOEWASTBWATER TANPFF(PzUm3)                        3,505   4,734   7,042   8,842  10,564  1Z390  14,276  16,134  17,179  18,262  19,433  20,60?  21,895
Cwige hi avrega w astew afar twif (hi rel tarm)                3.9%   20.0%    6.4%    6.7%    6.6%    6.7%    6.6%    0.4%    0.3%    0.4%    0.0%    01%
AVEPAGEWASTEWATERTARW(ISStm3)                           019    0.21    030    032    0.34    0.37    0.40    0.43    0.44    0.48    0.47    0.48    Q49
WASTHNATER REVENE(bIlilon PzI)
Ftseritte                                              13.4    19.2    300    386    47.1    56.4    68.6    77.7    90.5   105.1   122.3   142.1   164.4
'4jetriet                                              420    61.3    85.5   105.7   124.6   144.1   163.7   181.8   185.2   187.2   187.9   185.9   182.5
Goverrnat arnd cormmrcia                                2.5      3.8    10.4    13 7    17.0    20.5    24.0    27.6    29.6    31.8    34.3    36.8    39.6
Cangeinwastewstar revenua(hiredtlermrr)                       120 'A             3%     6      6i4,    6.64                              0         %
TOTAL WATEFtANDWASTfBNATiERFV lE(bilIlon Pzl)         209.6   268.9   365.9   464.0   578.1   673.3   772.7   870.0   922.8   978.2  1,036.1  1,098.1  1,15&7
Qiangentotitwatwrandwastewawarrvanue(hrealten.)               -1.3%   15.7%    6.3%    6.3%    6.2%    6.3%    6.2%    0.1%    0.0%    41.%    4.2%    4.3%
AVERAGEWATERANCWASTDNATitTAWFF(PzUm3)                 4,335   5,460   7,796   9,776  11,637   13,600  15,610  17,577  18,646  19,768  20,941   2Z1S9  23,431
Ch       iversp w  terwand wetw tar twifs(inre ttrrm)         -3.1%   15.1%    6.3%    6.3%    6.2%    6.3%    6.2%    0.1%    0.0%    4.1%    4.2%    4.2%
1993    1994    1t9S    19"    1997    1996    19m        2000    2001    20D2    2003    2004    200
OTiEfft REVNEH
Actual (btli Pit)                                      30.8
Faecat change h Whm revenue(n reel tarm)                       0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
Other reverJe (bib, Prz 
TOTALOPERATINGF R ViAE(billonPzl)                    240.4   308.9   435.5   542.5   641.6   745.4   850.8   952.6  1,010.3  1,070.9  1,134.4  1,200.3  1,269.2
INT1EST ON INTME NTS
Actua (blnPEW                                           25P7    43.i8
taat earned onure tricted cash (h real teon)                           0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    00%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%
intereetn,hivestmtsn (bton Pro                                                                                                                      ,
OTIF NCN-OPmATING INCOME
Actual (bilchn PLO   t                                  33.6    57 t6 
Forebn Pchipt)h                                        33rev.m6(i5.real6trms  -100.0%    0.0%    00%  O.D%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    00%    0.0%
Otihr rever,j (biionPz Fz4      ,



ANNEX L
NET PRESENT VALUE
1.    Revenues and costs with and without the project calculated over an assumed 30 year life yield a
US$31.5 million net present value at a ten percent discount rate (equivalent to a 23 percent internal rate
of return). Revenue and cost streams are calculated with the following assumptions, and shown on the
subsequent page.
Revenue
2.    "with project" is total operating revenue as projected in the financial model for 1996-2005 in 1996
prices, and constant thereafter.
3.    "without project" is 1996 total operating revenue, held constant throughout the period.
Capital cost
4.    "with project" is total capital expenditure as projected in the financial model for 1996-2005 less
the portion due to taxes, both in 1996 prices, and constant thereafter.
5.    "without project" is non-project capital expenditure as projected in the financial model for 1996-
2005 in 1996 prices, and constant thereafter.
Operating and maintenance cost
6.    "with project" is total operating expense, as projected in the financial model for 1996-2005 in
1996 prices, and constant thereafter.
7.    "without project" is 1996 total operating expense projected to increase at one percent annually



- 74 -
Net Present Value
Filvenue                Capital Cost                O&M CostN
Without    With       Net Without    With       Net Without    With        Net
1996    542.5   542.5       0.0    52.2   223.8   171.6    310.7   307.7    -3.1   -168.5
1997    542.5   572.9    30.4    50.1   388.1   338.0    313.9   305.8    -8.1   -299.5
1998    542.5   605.0    62.5    47.8   200.5   152.6    317.0   303.9   -13.1    -77.0
1999    542.5   639.3    96.8    46.5   121.0    74.5   320.2   301.8   -18.4             40.6
2000    542.5   675.4   132.9       57.0   110.6    53.6   323.4   266.7   -56.6    136.0
2001    542.5   675.8   133.3    66.9   104.7    37.8   326.6   265.2   -61.4    157.0
2002    542.5   675.8   133.3    75.7    75.7         0.0   329.9   265.2   -64.7    198.0
2003    542.5   675.3   132.8   151.4   151.4         0.0   333.2   265.2   -67.9    200.7
2004    542.5   674.1   131.6   151.4   151.4         0.0    336.5   265.4   -71.1    202.7
2005    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0    339.9   266.6   -73.3    203.2
2006    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   343.3   266.6   -76.7    206.6
2007    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   346.7   266.6   -80.1    210.1
2008    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   350.2   266.6   -83.6    213.5
2009    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   353.7   266.6   -87.1    217.0
2010    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   357.2   266.6   -90.6    220.6
2011    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   360.8   266.6   -94.2    224.1
2012    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   364.4   266.6   -97.8    227.7
2013    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   368.0   266.6  -101.5    231.4
20`14    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4        0.0   371.7   266.6  -105.1    235.1
2015    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   375.4   266.6  -108.8    238.8
2016    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   379.2   266.6  -112.6    242.5
2017    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   383.0   266.6  -116.4    246.3
2018    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   386.8   266.6  -120.2    250.2
2019    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   390.7   266.6  -124.1    254.0
2020    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   394.6   266.6  -128.0    257.9
2021    542.5   672.4    1 29.9   151.4   151.4       0.0   398.5   266.6  -131.9    261.9
2022    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   402.5   266.6  -135.9    265.9
2023    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0   406.5   266.6  -140.0    269.9
2024    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0    410.6   266.6  -144.0    274.0
2025    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0    414.7   266.6  -148.1    278.1
2026    542.5   672.4   129.9   151.4   151.4         0.0    418.8   266.6  -152.3    282.2
Net present value                        Internal rate of return
NP'
IJscount rate   billion Pzl rrillion US$     23%
10%              871.7    31.5



ANNEX M
AFFORDABILITY
Table MI: Affordability (average income households)
1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1999     1999       2000     2001      2002     2003     2D04      200t
Avara-e net monthly salarv
Actual (000 Po0                                                                   4
Fo,e..st charge  -On l reaMe)                                                                       3.7%      2.1%     3 0%     2 5%      2 5%     2 5%     2 5%      2 5%     2 5%     2 5%      2 5%i
C.oauted (000Pho                                                                  4.403    5,724    7,350    8.867   10.230   11.534   12.768   13.872   15,072   16.376   17,793   19,332   21.004
Avera=e net monthly pension
Actual (000 Pzl                                                                   2,380
Forecast change (in real ter")                                                                      3 7%      2.1%     3 0%h    2 5%      2.5%     2 5%     2 5%      2 5%     2 5%     2 5%      2 5%
Co=zuted (0002lho                                                                 2.380    3,094    3.979    4.793    5,529    6.234    6,902    7,490    a,147   80852    9,010   10,450   11,253
Category I hoosehold (workIng)
Average number ot persons                                                          3 38     3 3B    03 3       3 38      3       3 38      3 38     3 38     3 38      3 38     3 3        38 3    33 30
Working                                                                           1 51     1 51      151      151      1.51     151       151      1 51     1 51      151      151      1 51      151
Retired                                                                          0 40      0 40     0 40     0 40      0 40     0 40     0.40      0 40     0 40     0 40      0.40     0 40     0 40
Average household ncome                                                          7,601    9,88t   12.705   15,307   17,658   10910t  22.040   23,947   26.018   28.269   30,714   33.371   36.257
Cateoory 11 household tretlredl
Average nunber of persons                                                          1.5      185       1.85     185      1     85       t     e  1     15      185      185    185        1 es     1
Worhing                                                                           0.10     0 10     0 10     0.10      0 10     0 10     0.10      0 10     0 10     0 10      0 10     0 10     510
Retred                                                                            1.45     1.40     146       1.45     1.40     146       1.40     I 46     1.46      1.40 1    46      1 46      140
Average household  come                                                           3,915    5,090    6.545    7.885    9,096   10,256   11,353   12,339   13.402   14,561   10,821   17,189   18.67
Water and wastewater expenditure parameters
Oity watr, consumplion per capta (Ve/d)                                     j      185      t80                                                                        166        6 =  _
Waslewater bleias- a percentage ofwater sold                                    (1Y         7BX      /1%    78%         (0%      (0X      78%       76%      10%      (0%       (B%      (0%       78X
Water and wastewster xpe ndfture per Category I household (working)
Water
Consunplon (rt3olnDnth)                                                             19        19       19       18        18       18       10        17       17       17        17       17       10
Residental tarOt (Pz2m3)                                                         1,900    2,400    3.700    4,800    5,900    7,100    0.400    9,500   11,400   13,300   10,500   18,100   21,100
WMnthly expendOure (000 PzVmonth)                                                   36       44        88       88       107      127      149       171      197      227      281       301      347
Wastew-ter
Biled (trfml(nth)                                                                   14        14       14       14        14       14       14        14       13       13        13       13       13
Resodential tarft (P50Vn)                                                         1.500    2,000    3,I00    4,000    4,900    5,900    7,000    8.200    9,600   11.200   13,100   15,300   17,800
Monthly epeoddure (0 ZOPnvnth)                                                      20        29       45       57        69       82       97       112      130      149       173      199      229
Monthly=water.andwastewater).endlture 1000 P.11monthl                               56        73      113      145       170      209      245      283       326      376      434       501      576
Percentag  of averae household Ineome                                             07%      07%      09%       09%      1.0h%    1.1%      1.1%     12%       1.3%     1.3%     1.4%      1.5%    19.%
Water and wastewater expenditure per Cate gory 11 household (retired)
Watter
Consurrpton (rymonvth)                                                              tO        l0       10       10        10       10       tO        10        9        9         9        9        9
Reasdenbal lardf (PtVm;3)                                                        1,900    2,400    3,700    4,800      5.900    7.100    9,400    9,000   11.400   13,300   15,500   t8,100   21.100
ttnthly sopenddure (000 PzVonth)                                                    20       24        37       48        58       70       81        94      108      124      143       165      190
Vastwabtr
Sbd (rr4ronth)                                                                       7         8        8        8         8        a        8         7        7        7         7        7        7
bsodential laril (Puztnrr)                                                       1,500    2.000    3,100    4.000    4,900    5.900    7,000    8,200    9.600   11,200   13,100   15,300   17,9oO
tnthIy expenddure (000 PzVmonth)                                                    I1        16       25       31        38       45       53       61        71       82       94       109      125
Monthlywaterandwaslewaterooendfture 1000 PzUlmonth)                                 31       40        62       79       96       115      134       155      179      200      238       274      315
Percentase of average household Income                                            08%      0.B%     0.9%      10%      I1%       1.1%     12%      13%       13%      14%      1.5%      16%      1.7%
a idential tartffs (L9Slm3)
Water                                                                             0.10      011      010       0.17     019      021       023      026      0.29      033      0.37     0.42     047
Wastewater                                                                         008      009      013       014       t16     0a1       020      022      025       028      0.32     030       0.40
Total                                                                             O          MID     0.20      03.2     035      0.39      04Y      048       .54    0U.1      069 0107           UBI1



- 76 -
Table M2: Affordability (low income households)
1912   1it4 1"      5    1it"     1097    1008    155         00 2001t am     20102    2003    2004    3
AnsI (000 ,D_ 1 ,500
For casthang (Ih real tebn)                                                                 3.7%     2.1%    3.0%     2.5%    2 S%     2 5%    2.5%     2.5%     2.5%    2.5%     2.5%
CnpuWtd (OD0 Po                                                            1,500    1.50    2,501    3.021    B485    3,929   4,350    4,725    5.135   5,57m   8.052    .588    1,130
Aemrse not monthly sonsfon
Actul (ODD PZQ                                                         _    .231
Forect change (hireal termns                                                                3.7%     2.1%    3.0%     2.5%    2.5%     2.5%    2.5%     2.5%     2.5%    2.5%     2.5%
CoNuwed (000 Pz0                                                           1.231    1,800    2.058    2.479   2.000   32.25    3.570    3,878    4,214    4.28    49.74    5,400    5.572
Cat lory I household tworkinol
Avra  nunarr of ponsn                                                       3.38    3.38     338     3.38    3.35    3 38      3.3a     3.      3.3a     3.3a    3.38     J.38  -T ,
V#$rin                                                                     1.51    1.51     1.51     1.51    1.51     1.51    1.51     1.51    1.51     1.51    1.51     1.51     1.51
tred                                                                       0.40    0 40     0.40    0 40    0.40    0.40    0.40      0.40     0.40     0.40    0.40     0.40    0.4
Avera  hosehold icw                                                        2,-51    3,85   41,009   5.553   5.406    7,223   7.9005   8,88     9,43v   10.258   11t143   12,107   1.154
Caosory N housthold fretired)
Averepe nurtr of persons                                                    I                Lab    1.85      1.85    t.85     1.85     185     1.85    t.8     5     1.85    1. 8
:arhh                                                                       10        0.10   0.10            0.10    010 0110         0.10     0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10    010
;t14 1.                                                                             48      1.46    1.48     146      140      140     1.46     1.46     1.46    1.48    14      1.4
Average household hcornr                                                   1.947   2,531    3.255    3.922    4,524   5,101    5,647   64135    6,685    7,242    7,809   a,550    .28
Waler and wstewater espenditure parameters
Dely w & onewptonp- -pl4        d                                           lwt er           lO       W5      Ito      IM      lid      1 0          loo uI per a
v*te owsbledads a percentage of wastr sold                                  1%      /0%      (0      1a%      /0%     (0%      1       10%      #0%      15%     10%      #5%     #5
Wlaer and wastewater sopnditura par Category I household (working)
Cosur'pUkoI(n Anfh)                                                          19       t9      19      s1        18      is       15      17       17      17       17      17       to
Ilolkebi t  rif(P0zVrra)                                                   1,900    2,400    3,700    4,800    5,900    7.100   8.400    9,a00   11,400   13.3  5$01550   I1S   21.100
"hl   expendrw (000 Pzrcnth)                                                 36       44       8a     8a      107      127     149      171      107     227      201     301      347
NWad (nOhmn)                                                                 14       14      14       14      14       14      14       14       13      13       13      13       13
esidenil tariff (PilYnf)                                                   1.500   2,000    3,100    4,000    4,900   5,900    7.000   01200    5.600   11,200  13,100  15,300   t7.500
Monthlyependture(OOO FVmwnt)                                                 20       29      45       57      69       82      97      112      130     149      173    1tW       229
Monthlvwater and weatawatar aooendlture 1000 PzmonthI                        56       73     113      145     176      20     245      283      326     376      434     S1       gm
PerCenaon   of averaae household Income                                    2.0%     2.0%    2.5%    268%     2.7%     2.9%    3.1%    3.3%     3.5%     3.7%    3.%      4.1%    4.4%
Water and wastawater expendture per Category H household (retired)
hlt
Conuauptbn (rinonlh)                                                         15       10      10       10      10       10       10      10        9       0        9       8        5
hosbtri tariff (PzOrrO)                                                    1.900    2,400    3,700    4,800    5,e00    7,100   8.400    5,800   11,400   13,300  15,500  1t,100   21,100
tn4 eoxpendlun (000 Pofnrnth)                                                20       24      37       48      58       70      00       94      108     124      143     iae    teo
Bard (nO/month)                                                               7        a       0        a       a        5       a        7        7       7        7       7        7
Fbadante taritf (PzrnGr)                                                   1,500   2,000    3.100    4.000    4,900   5,900    7,000    8,200    9.o6   11200   13,100  15,300   17.800
tbnihiy *xpandture OOO PzVfonth)                                             11       16      25       31      38       45      53      e6       71       82       04     109      125
M onthlvwaterandwas twatreroendiure 000Pztm onthl                            31      40       62       79      go      115     134      155      170     206      238     274      315
Pefrents. eofaveroe  household Incom                                       1.8%     18      1.0%    2.0%     2.1%    2.2%    2.4%      2.5%    2.7%     2.8%    3.0%     3.2%    24%
Rreside ntal lar4s (ULSWm3)
vWter                                                                      0.10     0.11     0.16    0.17     0.15    0.21     0.22    0.26     0.25     0.33    gS7      0.42     a47
VYW4taw af                                                                  0.o0    0.09     0.13    0.14     0.16    0.18    0.20     0.22     0.25     0.26    0.32     0.56    0.40
Total                                                                      U.19    u.Zu    0.0       U.32     U.5    U0.4     0.43    0.40    U0.4      0.51     0.59    0.10    0.5r



- 77 -
Table M3: AffordabiLty (low income households with reduced consumption)
1ins     1994     1995    1996      1997    1999    1999        2000    2001    2002    3O03    2004    2005
Averace not monthly salary
Aclual (000 PzO                                                              1,500
Fwocsct change (nr rest twrn)                                                                   37%      21%    310%       25%      25%      25%     25%      2.5%     2.5%     25%      25%
Conputed d(OOOF20                                                            1.5f    1.950    2.507    3.021    3.405    3.929    4.350    4.72t    5.135    5,579    5.052    6.5tt    7.156
Average nt mnonthlyhneneon
Actual (000 NzO P                                                            1,231
Forecast change (an rea ltnna)                                                                  3.7%     2.1%     3 0%     2 5%     2 5%    2 5%     2.5%     2 5%     2.5%     2 5%     2 5%
ConPultnd (00Nhl                                                             12231    1,500    2.056    2,419    2,80    2.225    3.570    2,978    4.214    4.575    4.974    5.405    5.572
Categaory I hoocehold tworkinsl)
Average nunbtr of parsons                                                     3 36     3.38     3        33 3        30   3   35    3 3S     3.38     3.35     3.3a     3.38     3 30     3 31
Va*rbgn                                                                       1.51     1 51     1.51     1.51     1 Si     1.51     1.51     1.51    1 51     1.51     1.51      51      1 51
Relsoed                                                                      0.40     0.40     0.40     0.40     040      040    0S40        40      040      040      040      040      040
Average household connu                                                      2,757    3.5tlS    4.,09    5,553    6,405    7.223    7.996   81.B86   9.439   10.256   11.143   12.107   13.154
Category 11 houaehotd treltredi
Average nuntar of personas                                                               .5      i.8      1.95     19       1.85     i8                        1.8      I.          8 
yvuortg                                                                     00.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     010      0 10     0 10     0.10     010      0.10    00
RaIned                                                                       1.48      1.4$    1.4e     1 46     1.46      1.46    1 46     140      140      146        46     146      1.46
Averag householdino,e                                                         1,947    2.21    3,255    3,922    4.524    5,101    5.647    6.135    a.666    7.242    7.659    9.550    9.289
Vater and nustewater espenditura parametara
tDly water conourpt.onr per cropt (Vc/d)                                       Iz0      1U        12      t1       111               11b               II "J             I "'     luN       TM
Wetiewatar brd as a prcerntage of water sold                                  -t        -i      /5       /%       law      /9%      /6%      70% JOVe    -5%            10%      /0%t    /1
VMan Tand   s1otwster copendttnuepe rCategoryI ousehold to ikIng)
Consunp08n (nWmnth)                                                             13       12       12       12       12       12       12       12       12       11      11        II       11
Rasidenbal wrif (PzVrsO)                                                     1,900    2,400    3,700    4,900    5.900    7,100    8,400    9,o00  11.400   13,300   15,500   18.100   21.1W0
Monthy epaniura (000 Nrnsnth)                                                   24       30       46       59       71       e5       9W      114      131      151      174     201      231
Wallowater
Bad (nOtunnth)                                                                   9       10       10       10            9        9        9   6             9                      9 
FRntmtleostwit (PiVrt)                                                       1.500    2,000    3.100    4.000    4.900    5.900    7.000    6,200    9.5W    11,200   13.100   15.300   17.110
Vonthly asp*ndunr (OO00imnust)                                                  14       19       30       38       40       55       U4       75      96      100      115       133     153
Aonthly water and waslewater aneendllure  1OO0 PzUmenllth                      38       49       76       97      117      140      164     1t9      216      251      299      224      384
Percentaog ofasrale household Income                                          1.4%     1.4%     16%      1.7%     1.1%     19%      20%     22%      2.3%     2.4%     26%      2.6%    2.9%
sttar and waslewater xpandllure per Calegory l household (retired)
Consunrlptin (RO/nth)                                                            7        7        7        7        7        7        6        a        6        5       6        6        6
Pesidential trdf (PovnO3)                                                    1.900    2,400    3,700    4.600   5.900    7.100    6.400    9.e00   11.400   12,300   10 500   19,100   21.100
tonlhlye.pondturel000POnoneh)                                                 13       16       25       32       39       46       54      62       72       t3       95      ISO      127
W otowalar
Bibd (nOnmonth)                                                                  5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5       5        5
Reoidsntiaaf (Pzitn)                                                         1500    2,000    3,100    4.000    4.900    5,900    7.000    8.200    9.500   11.200   13,100   15.300   17.900
bn1th1y ep.ndtero(000PizrnDnI)                                                   7       11       16       21       25       30       35       41       47       55      63        73      84
Monthv waterandwaetwmeatrexsendture (OOOPPiSnonthI                              21       27       41       53       64       76       90      103      119      137      15     163      210
Pargentagae of averase houaehaid income                                       1.1%     1.1%     1.3%     1.3%     1A%      15%      1 6%     1.7%    1.9%     1.9%     20%     2.1%     2.3%
lasidential tarIffs (U9tSst3)
Vftker                                                                        0.10     0.11     0.16     0.17      0.19    0.21     0.23     0.28     0.29     0.33     0 37     0 42     0.47
VbsIewater                                                                    0.08      0.00    0.13     0.14      0.16    0.18     020      0.22     5.25     0.28     0.32     036      0.40
Totl                                                                          9.W      0.29    U9.Z    U032    U0.5        0.  U     .44     0.4    U9.4         1               UIQ      Uor






IBRD 27829
16 lb                     1R                        2O0                       22'                     -   24
RUSSIAN
<1'-'            -aNc   Ser--,   -    *    ;   ~:    -  FEDERATION  j                                      i
i         I            Ody dnk                 -.                                      roo                                                      POLAND
_    -    4,. *     }  StUPSK   I  GOANSK            - Elblog     
54To0.- -011                                                                                                                 *D
7; Ptowd Y      -        )       (          L         ,<                   >        v_                                  ALK                          \*                               rROJECT CITY
) : - n _^r t _ > K X  /  /          f4BLAG                   /       \ OLSZJYN  -L  -1..-                                       EXPRESSWAYS
t  b +   ,f KOSZALIN    r - .   t   _   . };   \\_   )  .   I3OI%ZIYX   ) -   .  ~   /  i   rO Vsir,                                    OTHER MAIN ROADS
Tro ro,s  - M   SoCZEC8Lf J  , 5~ <   ,-           {- r         <  yg                                                                                                             .  RAIIROADS
LOMZA                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~+ AIRPORTS
r                                     -- ---- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                        MAJOR PORTS
_  <                                 \                                 -"  \-,t,, .......        Q      8    }       ...........    BelARUS        {:    ^/0'^0' j  BELARU
BIALYSTOK'                             ~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
_   i-   & SORZOVVa NoPE r,PILA    ) r   E        >             * CIECHAtWq  OSTRPLEKA  <               /     BIALYSTOK .                                    (j    PROVINCE IWOJEWODZTWO) CAPITALS
Z                                                                                                                                                                                 > ;; 2 -7; _t WLOCuWfKZ ' \ \s ,, r 7t ( /! _ MAJOR URMAN AREAS
ZNAN  r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.RIVERS
7            13L                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CANALS
W.-                                                                                      PROVINCE IWOJEWODZTWO) ROUNDARIES
.52-                                                                                                        SIED-CE S_1&,~,                                                         INTERNATIONAL BlWsi   s\-   sP   jX   s  riochown  - ITRA ONL OUNDARfES
_ 50                50       ISO        500 KILOMETERS
'R      ,I                                                               0      25       ST      75      IS.O  MILES
r  o i    te,_ >il                x               CHLM         To tRoEpK i.-oo1
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ we
-x                           CZESrQC   WA                                                                 C'CIL-
Z                               Ni                     NORWAY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!~~S TON IAA
SWEDEN -               ~~~~~RUSSIAN
PFEDRERATION
LATVIA
T. P'.h.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ -DENMEARK                            ~        *j
A LITHUANIA 
~~  ~-oKRA  O~W                       R 'P570 W 'P EYL/              '  0                                              ISO
To RIIso            KA                             TA;, 0 W                                                      50--'-
iIJOO{   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         -.                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELARUS
REPUBLIC                                                       seikH                          ~
"'  Blab ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U KR A INE                                       I     EMAYE              POLAND
R E P U B L I C~ ~ ~~~~~  IT                               ~            4ovSot ci   N 
SIALAtV    NO10Wy 5AC             KROSNO --CZECH.--.1    UKRAINE
/  ~~~~~~~ .                                                          0            ,. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ REP   so!;
REP-"'--.     -
It  AJSTO,A'S  IA                   IA I                          20 ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~SLOVAK  R E P U B L'         2              -  SISZOt.AUSTI'A F  HUNGARY /            ROMANIA
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0*,IT









IMAGING
Report No:      14613 POL
Type: SAR



