pID 1J6q
Project Name:        Kosovo, SAM. - Economic Assistance Grant IV
Region:              Europe and Central Asia
Sectors:             Public    Expenditure    Management,     Private
Sector Development
Project ID:          P078380
Recipient:           United     Nations    Interim    Administration
Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK)
Implementing
Agency:              Ministry of Economy and Finance, Provisional
Institutions    of   Self-Government     (PISG),
Kosovo
Environment
Category:            U
Date this PID
prepared:            November 11, 2002
Appraisal Date:      April 14-18, 2003
Projected Board
Date:                June 12, 2003
Background
The Kosovo conflict in 1999 severely disrupted economic activity
and    caused    substantial    physical     damage    to    Kosovo's
infrastructure.      In  particular,   more   than   50  percent   of
agriculture   assets  were  reportedly -damaged   or  lost,  and  key
parts of the telecommunications system were destroyed during the
conflict. In addition, equipment of all types and personal
property were looted extensively.     Besides the conflict related
damage, the previous decade of under investment had severely
degraded economic infrastructure. Human capital was also eroded,
especially among the younger generation, which had not had
proper access to secondary and higher education.
Kosovo's reconstruction and recovery has proceeded well, due to
the efforts of the people of Kosovo, the efforts of UNMIK and
those working in the public administration, and the strong
support of the donor community.       By November 1999,    the World



Bank and European Commission had prepared a reconstruction and
recovery program for Kosovo which had an estimated total cost of
$2.3 billion over the years 1999-2003.      The program provided a
framework    for   donors    to   help   finance    post   conflict
reconstruction and rehabilitation on a gradually diminishing
basis, while putting Kosovo on a path to self sustaining
economic growth.   The strategy had three main objectives:    (i) to
develop a thriving, open and transparent market economy; (ii) to
support the public administration and to establish transparent,
effective and sustainable institutions; and (iii) to mitigate
the irnpact of the conflict and to start addressing the legacy of
the 1990s.
Kosovo has been gradually progressing towards self-government.
Following the adoption of the Constitutional Framework in May
2001   and   the   Kosovo-wide    elections   in   November    2001,
responsibility for administering the territory is now shared
between   UNMIK   and   a  Kosovar    self-Government.   While   the
Provisional   Institutions    of   Self  Government    (PISG)   have
significant responsibility in governing Kosovo, the Special
Representative of the UN Secretary General (SRSG) retains the
power to ensure security (in coordination with KFOR), exercise a
number   of   specific   reserve  powers,   and   set   the   "broad
parameters" of fiscal policy, including the overall budget.
Along with the transfer of power from UNMIK to the PISG, a
transfer of public sector resources is also taking place. The
2002 budget marks an important stage in the transfer of power,
with more than two-thirds of general budget resources under the
authority of the PISG and the municipalities; in 2001, virtually
all general budget resources were under the authority of UNMIK.
This presents a very significant opportunity and challenge for
laying the institutional basis for sound fiscal management in
Kosovo.
The Government in Kosovo and its new budgetary authority come at
a  time  when   it  is    critical  to   address  some  fundamental
questions on how to support the long-term development of Kosovo.
To reach beyond recovery to longer term sustainable growth,
Kosovo will need to make further progress in fundamentally
reforming its economy and its public finances. Achieving the new
Government's objectives of a rapidly growing economy with
increased private sector employment and an overall improvement
in living standards will require decisive implementation of a
broad--ranging structural reform agenda.
Objectives of the proposed Operation



The  main   objective  of   the  proposed   fourth  budget   support
operation is to assist Kosovo in the implementation of a
structural reform agenda aimed at enhancing medium-term macro-
fiscal   sustainability,   sustaining   adequate   public   service
delivery in the face of declining donor support, and promoting
private-sector driven growth. The reform program to be supported
by the proposed Operation works to achieve these objectives
through specific reforms in the areas of budget management and
the business environment. In the area of budget management, the
proposed Operation would support concrete measures towards
improving the transparency and accountability of public spending
and the allocation of resources in line with medium-term
priorities. In the area of private sector development, the
operation would help to improve the business environment by
making further progress on designing and implementing the
private sector regulatory framework, and taking first steps to
improve the efficiency of publicly-owned enterprises.
Rationale for IDA involvement
Following the conflict, a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)
was presented to the IDA Board of Executive Directors on October
7, 1999 (R99-178).    The TSS proposed an assistance strategy to
support post-conflict reconstruction and economic recovery as
part of a broader international effort, as well as the
establishment of the Trust Fund for Kosovo, with two allocations
totaling US$60 million from IBRD's net income. The TSS Progress
Report of June 27, 2000 (R2000-130) took stock of the initial
implementation of this strategy and set out an assistance
program for the October 2000-September 2001 period, making the
case for the second tranche of the net income allocation. A
second TSS for Kosovo was considered by the IDA Board on July 2,
2002, which outlined a program of targeted adjustment and
investment operations in Kosovo funded by IDA grants.      This TSS
program is designed to focus the Bank's involvement in Kosovo in
particular on building the capacity of the developing local
government    institutions,    building   on    the   broad    based
reconstruction   support  provided  under   the  first  TSS.     The
Proposed Operation was envisaged to be financed within the IDA
grant envelope presented in the second TSS, under the category
of   post-conflict   grants.   Kosovo   remains   a   post-conflict
territory, within a member country, and under UN administration
on an interim basis.
As was the case of the previous economic assistance grants, the
proposed fourth EAG IV facilitates World Bank engagement in the
policy dialogue with UNMIK, the PISG and other donors, building
on progress made under the first three budget support



Operations. The first two grants supported the establishment of
a fiscal system and helped to provide basic services in a post-
conflict setting. Most notably, they supported the creation of a
fully functional and effective budget management system, with
modern    standards   of   public    expenditure   management    and
transparent fiscal operations. The first two grants have also
played a decisive role in assisting the authorities in the
design and implementation of a functioning tax and tariff system
minimizing distortions. The main objective of the third grant
was to support Kosovo's private sector development program by
supporting the enactment of four key commercial regulations, on
(i) business organizations; (ii) the contract for sale of goods;
(iii) pledges; and (iv) foreign investment.
Description of the proposed Operation
The conduct of fiscal policy will remain critical to ensuring
macroeconomic stability, a conducive investment climate, and
equitable growth in Kosovo over the medium term. While the
adoption of a hard currency has played a critical role in
bringing about macroeconomic stability, it is also putting a
larger burden on fiscal policy. Given the political and legal
uncertainties surrounding borrowing, and without a monetary
policy   instrument,   the   fiscal  policy   stance   will   depend
critically on a strong domestic revenue effort, a careful
calibration of expenditures to support both public investment
and critical social expenditures, and importantly, continuing
donor support to the budget, albeit at a lower level.In this
context, and in an environment of declining donors' support,
Kosovo's main challenge will be to implement        policy measures
that are critical to achieving a fiscally sustainable reform
program fostering private sector-led growth.
The proposed operation will support measures towards maintaining
fiscal discipline and the allocation of resources in line with
medium-term   priorities.     The  first   three  years  of   budget
management in post-conflict Kosovo have seen the establishment
of a commendable framework for public expenditure management.
However, budget development in Kosovo has until recently been
more compliance focused and aimed at fiscal discipline rather
than at mechanisms to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness
of public spending. While sticking to the previous record of
fiscal discipline, it is now time to start looking for
mechanisms that will systematically encourage more effective
efficient spending allocation.
The proposed operation would also seek to support measures that
would improve the efficiency of existing public spending. Vital



extra spending on operations and maintenance, and capital
investment, can only be financed if cost savings are implemented
elsewhere. Subsidies to public enterprises are currently high
and crowding out other spending. With public wage spending in
excess of 6% of GDP, the public sector wage bill needs to be
kept constant as a share of GDP.
The transparency and accountability of public spending also
needs to be improved in Kosovo, and the EAG IV will support
measures to this end.     While many transparency milestones have
been established over the past three years, key gaps in
achieving a truly transparent and accountable public expenditure
system include the lack of framework financial management
legislation, delays in the establishment of the Auditor
General's Office, and weak internal auditing functions.
The promotion of private sector activity will be vital to
Kosovo's economy, and the proposed operation will also seek to
support reforms to improve the environment for business. Over
the past three years, the Authorities have made substantial
progress in putting in place a legal and institutional framework
to promote and support private sector activity. UNMIK passed
regulations on Business Organizations (a quasi-company law),
Foreign Investment, Profit Taxes, a Board for Establishment of
Accounting Standards, and Pledges (for movable property) . The
regulation on Pledges is supported by a pledge registry which
became operational in February 2002.
However, despite this progress, Kosovo has yet to establish an
adequate business environment to protect and enforce property
rights and contracts, facilitate stable entry and exit of firms,
and promote financial intermediation. This environment increases
risks for private investment, encourages firms to remain in the
informal economy, and constrains financing for firms to the
extent that property rights and transactions are not yet fully
secure. Access to finance is a crucial constraint on firms, and
for many SMEs real estate is their most significant asset,
although they have no means to leverage these assets given the
lack of secure property rights and a reliable framework for
commercial banks to secure collateral. Without access to finance
and secure property rights, firms have few incentives to become
legally recognized,   formal entities.    This in turn constrains
the ability of the Government to expand its revenue base through
the collection of profit and wage taxes.



The operation will be an IDA grant coordinated by the Ministry
of Economy and Finance, one of the Provisional Institutions of
Self Governance, and UNMIK.
Environmental Category
The proposed operation is not expected to result in any negative
impact on the environment. For the purposes of Operational
Directive 4.01, it has been placed in Category U, which does not
require an environmental assessment.
Poverty Category
The proposed operation will have positive impacts on poverty.
Through improving the allocation of resources in line with
medium term priorities and ensuring adequate and sustainable
service   delivery,   public  spending   should   progressively   be
targeted towards improving access to and the quality of services
to the poor. Improvements in the accountability and transparency
of spending will also reduce the potential for waste and
misappropriation of public resources. Improved delivery of basic,
services such as health and education will complement measures
to promote private sector activity and provide employment and
income, which will be particularly important as donor assistance
ramps down.
Benefits and Risks
The proposed EAG IV will provide a range of potential benefits,
in addition to the positive impacts on poverty described above.
First, it will assist the authorities in articulating a
coordinated economic policy reform agenda backed by a consistent
macroeconomic framework. Second, it will support reforms aimed
to improve transparency in public finances and better target
public expenditures. Third, policy measures to promote private
sector development and thus drive productivity and growth will
be a key component of the overall reform package.
The proposed EAG IV also entails external, political and
implementation   risks.  The   operation  would   tackle  difficult
political reforms in a complicated institutional setting. There
are risks associated with the implementation of the economic
reform effort itself that largely are linked to weak local
capacity. There are also various risks of policy implementation.
Budgetary systems and mechanisms, including tax administration
and collection, are still at a formative stage. Strong pressures
also are being felt to raise wages, maintain over-manning in
public services and utilities and increase overall spending to
amounts that would not be sustainable in the medium term. There
is also considerable uncertainty about growth prospects and the



macroeconomic scenario is associated with substantial risks.
Finally, the EAG IV tackles issues which have proved difficult
in other economies in transition.
Contact Points:
Ms. Marina Wes
Sr. Economist
The World Bank
1818 H Street , NW
Washington, D.C, 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 1390
Fax (202) 522 2754
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not be included in the final project. This PID
was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 2nd.



