Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H047 KOS 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Economic Assistance Grant IV) 
 
between 
 
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 22, 2003 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H047 KOS 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 2003, between UNITED NATIONS 
INTERIM ADMINISTRATION MISSION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Recipient a letter dated           
May 14, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the economy of Kosovo (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Recipient’s  commitment to the execution of the Program, as well as 
confirming the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government’s endorsement of same, for 
the benefit of Kosovo, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
 
(B) 
the Recipient and the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government have 
carried out the measures and taken the actions described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
to the satisfaction of the Association; and 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient, for the benefit of 
Kosovo, by making the Grant as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 
1.01.  (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 
(as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) 
of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) Article 
II; 
 
(iii) 
Sections 3.01 and 3.04 (c); 
 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.05 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
 
(ix) 
Article X;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and  
 
(xi) Article 
XII. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Credit”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Grant;  
 
(iii) 
the term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where 
used in Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, 
the term “credit” shall continue to read “credit”;  
 
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account;  
 
(v) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement; 
 
(vi) 
paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“11. “External debt” means any debt which is or may become 
payable other than in the currency of Kosovo.”; 
 
(vii) 
paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“12. “Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
this Development Grant Agreement, in support of which the 
Grant is made.”; 
 
(viii) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read as follows:  
 
Page  4
-
3
-
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Grant Agreement.”; 
 
(ix) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Commitment Charge is 
Payable. 
 
(a)   
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the 
Grant in the currency specified in the Development Grant 
Agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(x) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are 
modified to read “commitment charge”.
 
(xi) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows:
 
“Section 4.03.
 
Amount of the Grant 
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be 
the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or 
respective dates of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(xii) 
Section 4.06 (b) shall be modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b)  
The principal of the Grant shall be paid without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by the Recipient or in Kosovo.” 
 
(xiii) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Grant from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions 
of the Development Grant Agreement and of these General 
Conditions.” 
 
(xiv) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
 
(xv) 
Section 5.08 is modified to read as follows: 
Page  5
-
4
-
“It is the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Grant 
shall be withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied 
by the Recipient or in Kosovo on goods or services, or on the 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To that 
end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any 
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, 
increase or decrease the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the Development Grant 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Association.” 
 
(xvi) 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in  
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development 
grant agreement or any development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement”. 
 
(b) 
The  phrase  “any  development  credit  agreement”  in           
Section 6.02 (c) (i) is modified to read: “any development grant 
agreement, development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
 
(c) 
Paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 is deleted. 
 
(xvii) 
Section 8.01 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“(a)  
The commitment charges on the Grant shall be paid 
without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by the 
Recipient or in Kosovo. 
 
(b)  
The Development Grant Agreement, and any other 
agreement to which these General Conditions apply, shall be free 
from any taxes levied by the Recipient or in Kosovo on or in 
connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.” 
 
(xviii)  Paragraph (b) of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b)  
The Recipient shall afford all reasonable opportunity for 
representatives of the Association to visit any part of Kosovo for 
purposes related to the Grant.” 
Page  6
-
5
-
(xix) 
Section 9.02 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“The Recipient shall furnish to the Association all such 
information as the Association shall reasonably request with 
respect to financial and economic conditions in Kosovo 
including its balance of payments and its external debt as well as 
that of its political or administrative subdivisions and any entity 
owned or controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of 
Kosovo or any such subdivision, and any institution performing 
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or 
similar functions, for Kosovo.” 
 
(xx) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient 
and the Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Grant 
Agreement, the performance by the Recipient and the 
Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant.”
 
(xxi) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified 
above), 9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
(xxii) 
Section 12.05 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.  Termination of Development Grant Agreement 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of 
the Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.02. 
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(a) 
“Assembly” means the Assembly within the PISG (as hereinafter 
defined), or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(b) 
“Constitutional Framework” means the Constitutional Framework for 
Provisional  Self-Government  in  Kosovo,  established  pursuant  to  the  Recipient’s           
Regulation No. 2001/9 of May 15, 2001 on a Constitutional Framework for Provisional 
Self-Government in Kosovo as amended and promulgated by the Special Representative 
of the Secretary-General of the United Nations pursuant to the authority given to him 
under United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) of June 10, 1999 
(UNSCR 1244 (1999)). 
 
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
“EFC” means the Economic and Fiscal Council contemplated by the 
Constitutional Framework, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(e) 
“Euro” means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union. 
 
(f) 
“Government” means the Government within the PISG, or any successor 
or successors thereto. 
 
(g) 
“KEK” means Korporata Energjetike e Kosovës, The Power Corporation 
of Kosovo, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(h) 
“MFE” means the Ministry of Finance and Economy within the PISG, or 
any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(i) 
“PA” means Pristina Airport, or any successor or successors thereto.  
 
(j) 
“PISG” means the Provisional Institutions of Self-Government 
established pursuant to the Constitutional Framework. 
 
(k) 
“PTK” means Posta dhe Telekomi i Kosoves, The Post and 
Telecommunications Corporation of Kosovo, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
(l) 
“SRSG” means the Special Representative of the Secretary-General, 
acting pursuant to the authority given to him under United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 1244 (1999) of June 10, 1999 (UNSCR 1244 (1999)). 
 
(m) 
“UR” means UNMIK Railways, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(n) 
“Water and Waste POEs”
 
means, collectively, the following 15 publicly 
owned water and waste companies operating in the territory of Kosovo, namely, Batlava 
Pristina, NPK Hidroteknika Gjilan, NPK Ujesjellesi Peya, NPK Cvileni, OKP Ujesjellesi 
Mitrovica, NP Higjiena Teknika Pristina, NPK Higjiena Gjilan, NPK Higjiena Publike 
Peya, NPK Cabrati Gjakova, NPK Higjiena Prizren, NPK Uniteti Mitrovica, Iber 
Lepence Pristina, NPK Hidro-Higjiena Ferizaj, NPKP Rahovec, and Hidrosistemi 
Radoniqi Gjakova, or any successor or successors to any one thereto. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Development Grant Agreement, a 
grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The Recipient through the MFE shall open, prior to 
furnishing to the Association the first request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and 
thereafter maintain in a commercial bank a deposit account in Euros on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from the Grant Account shall 
be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(b)  
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) of this Section, the Recipient 
shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account and 
deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03.  
(a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent    (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant account or cancelled; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) at the rate set as of   June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate 
set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by the 
Recipient; and (iii) in Euros or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.04. 
Commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 
15th and December 15th in each year.  
 
Section 2.05. 
The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
Page  10
-
9
-
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01.  
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. 
The Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of 
the United Nations for Kosovo, Head of UNMIK Pillar IV, is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo 
One Mother Theresa Street 
Pristina, Kosovo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(212) 963-8442-5642, or 
Page  11
-
10 -
(381-38-504) 604-5642 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Pristina, Kosovo, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM ADMINISTRATION  
 
MISSION IN KOSOVO 
 
By /s/ Nikolaus Lambsdorff 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of Kosovo or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of Kosovo; provided, however, that if the currency of Kosovo is also that of 
a
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such 
currency for such goods or services shall not be excluded; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the Bank 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another grant, credit, or loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Recipient: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
Tobacco, 
unmanufactured, 
 
tobacco refuse 
 
122 
- 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not containing 
 
tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious stones,  
 
unworked or worked 
Page  14
-
13 -
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and parts  
 
thereof; fuel elements  
 
(cartridges), non-irradiated,   
 
for nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or  
 
platinum group metals (except 
 
watches and watch cases) and  
 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’  
 
wares (including set gems) 
 
971 
- 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding  
 
gold ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party);  
 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Recipient or of a 
beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  15
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of 
the Preamble to this Agreement 
 
1. 
The Kosovo Consolidated Budget for calendar year 2003, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been approved by the SRSG, acting on the advice of the EFC.  
 
2. 
The 2004-06 macro and revenue forecasts for the medium-term budget 
framework and the budget calendar have been produced by the MFE and, upon the advice 
given by the EFC, agreed by the SRSG as indicative ceilings to start the 2004 budget 
process; and the 2004 draft budget circular has been issued by the MFE. 
 
3. 
The SRSG has promulgated a regulation establishing the office of the Auditor 
General and the Audit Office, satisfactory to the Association, and the Audit Office has 
been established. 
 
4. 
The Assembly has adopted and the SRSG has promulgated a law on mortgages 
and a law on bankruptcy, both satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5. 
The Assembly has adopted and the SRSG has promulgated a law on the 
establishment of an immovable property rights register, and supplementary legislation 
necessary to render such law effective has been submitted by the Government to the 
Assembly, both satisfactory to the Association. 
 
6. 
Audits, conducted pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, 
have been completed, by independent auditors of recognized standing, acceptable to the 
Association, of the four principal publicly owned enterprises operating within Kosovo 
(KEK, PTK, PA and UR), as well as of each of the Water and Waste POEs. 
 
Page  16
-
15 -
M:\BACKUP\Kosovo\Conformed\H047-KOS.doc 
8/21/2003 10:56 AM 
 
M:\BACKUP\Kosovo\Conformed\H047-KOS.doc 
6/20/2003 9:04 AM
 
