ISDS
THE VKORLD BANK GROUP                                          AWorldFr       OUeoll'ovarty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/08/2002                              24143
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ARGENTINA                              Project ID: P078143
Project: Enabling activity for Second National  Task Team Leader: Juan Lopez-Silva
Communication of Argentine Goverment to the
Convention on Climate Change
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 16, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: February 6, 2003                 IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSEN                            Sector: VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: ENVIRONMENT
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The primary objective of this project is to support enabling activities for
the preparation of the Second National Communication of the Government
of Argentina to the Conference of the Parties to UNFCCC. The
Government of Argentina already submitted its First National
Communication in 1997 and a revised version in 1999. This project will
enable the Government of Argentina (GOA) to duly satisfy requirements
under Art.12.1 of the UNFCCC, in accordance with decisions 10/CP.2,
1 /CP.2 and 8/CP.5.
This project will complement ongoing activities undertaken by the
Government of Argentina to implement the UNFCC requirements and
will: a) Update and improve GHG National Inventories; b) Strengthen
local capacities to integrate climate change issues into the planning
process and develop public awareness; c) Assist in the preparation of
national mitigation policies and measures, including identification of
mitigation opportunities in transport and electric energy demand side
management (DSM); and d) Assess vulnerability and adaptation options
for key ecosystems and agricultural regions.
I.A.3. Project Description:



2
ISDS
Project components are entirely directed to produce the Second National
Communication to the FCCC. The communication will be structured
according to the categories set out in the GEF Operational Guidelines for
Expedited Funding of Second National Communications from Non-Annex
I Parties.
Components:
a. Updating of National GHG Inventories and Development of Emission Factors:
b. Vulnerability Assessment and Institutional Strengthening for adaptation
c. Formulation of National Mitigation Plan
d. Promotion of Public Awareness
e. Elaboration of Second National Communication to the UNFCCC
f. Project Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                      Yes 0 No      TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       ,Yes * No    2TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 Yes * No      TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   Yes 0 No      TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     Yes * No      TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         Yes 0 No      TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  Yes * No      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                  Yes * No    . TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*             Yes * No      TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)           Yes 0 No      TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.



3
ISDS
II.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of altematives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N.A.
N.A.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
*      One of the project objectives is to integrate climate change issues
into national planning. The project will be coordinated by INGEIS which
will act to ensure participation by all stakeholders.
*      The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will monitor the implementation
of the project.
*      Public awareness activities will provide opportunity for various
members of the public to participate. Activities will also feature tailored
messages targeted at identified audiences such as students, professionals,
clubs and civil organizations, media personnel, community leaders and so
on through seminars, workshops, educational material and web-based
discussion groups.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. -No safeguard issues
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)



4
ISDS
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                           Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:               Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                        Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                  Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Juan Lopez-Silva                             May 6 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan David Quintero                       May 6 2002
Sector Manager/Director:      John Redwood                                 May 6 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FFFOflACK      UTI MAP        sHn.VrASE



