Report No. PID11207
Project Name             ARGENTINA-Enabling Activity for 2nd...
National Communication of
Argentine Goverment to the Convention
on Climate Change (GEF)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Solid waste management (100%)
Project ID               P078143
Borrower(s)              GOVERMENT OF ARGENTINA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
Address: Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Contact Person: Raul Alfredo Estrada Oyuela
Email: eoy@mrecic.gov.ar
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        January 14, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date      December 10, 2002
Bank Approval Date       February 25, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Climate Change, sources and impact
The projected impacts of climate change, or in more specific terms of
global warming, include increasing temperatures, sea level rise, and
changing precipitation patterns. Although there is a significant level of
uncertainty concerning the causes of climate change, it has been
recognized that global climatic patterns have changed considerably during
the last century. It is also well known that the impacts of severe
climatic events have become increasingly damaging to natural resources and
infrastructure, as well as threatening to human life.
The concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has been
increasing steadily for the past century. It is nowadays widely accepted
that GHG are, at least to some extent, responsible for the global warming
trend. A reversal of this trend is therefore related to the management
and the abatement of greenhouse gas pollution, both of which depend on the
type of source of the emissions. Increasing emissions of GHG mainly
result from: 1) combustion of fossil fuels (i.e. oil, coal) that occur,
among others, during power generation and industrial and transportation
activities; 2) reduction of carbon sinks through, for example,
deforestation activities; and 3) methane emissions originating from
organic matter decomposition related to human activities.
Studies have shown that the capacity to adapt to relatively short-term
climatic change is not distributed evenly amongst different societies and
that in fact, the impacts of climatic change are more severely felt in
developing countries, amongst the poorest fractions of the population.
Furthermore, the ability to manage and to control GHG emissions and
pollution, and therefore the ability to reduce the impact of climate
change, requires an institutional, technological and financial framework



that may not exist in these countries.
GHG emissions in Argentina
The 1997 inventory of GHG emissions revealed that between 1990-1994 and
1994-1997, GHG emissions increased by 13.7? and 6.2? respectively, a
cumulative increase of 20.7%. (Figures do not include emissions from
changes in crop management or from silviculture). The economic context
during 1990-97 can be used to justify trends of emission production.
Indeed, in 1990 the economy was undergoing a deep recession. A period of
rapid recovery started in 1992, manifested by increasing economic activity
and consequently rising GHG emissions. 1997 marked the peak of economic
activity for the decade, but the decreasing trend of emissions was already
evident. A combination of factors contributed to this decreasing trend of
emissions, of which the most influential were: i) increased power
generation from clean energy sources; ii) replacement of public
transportation fleet with cleaner vehicles; and iii) reduction of total
heads of cattle with a resulting decrease in enteric emissions.
GHG emissions in Argentina mainly originate from: 1) combustion of fossil
fuels, consistently releasing approximately 90% of the C02 emissions and
around 42t of the total GHG emissions of the country    in 1997 (power
generation (30%) and transport (33%) account for most of the
energy-related GHG emissions); 2) enteric fermentation, releasing 62% of
methane emissions and 19% of total GHG emissions in 1997 (mainly cattle);
and 3) management of agricultural land, releasing 95% of total nitrous
oxide emissions and 21% of total GHG emissions in 1997.    Annex 13 contains
a detailed breakdown of GHG emissions.
National circumstances and impacts of climate change
A series of physical characteristics and of cultural traits make Argentina
particularly vulnerable to climate change. The following sections provide
brief descriptions of national priority issues that need to be addressed
in order to reduce potential impacts of climate change.
Water resources
The wide range of climatic conditions in Argentina result in complex water
resource management issues. Argentina is repeatedly subjected to periods
of extreme drought in the dry regions and to inundations in the more humid
zones. It is to be expected that the various regions have considerably
different water resource issues concerning their surface water bodies,
groundwater supplies, and irrigation practices.
Land resources
The lack of effective land management policies in Argentina is a
contributing factor to the severity of the impacts from climate
change-related events. Unsustainable land use (e.g. substitution of
pastures for crops), soil degradation (e.g. salinization) and
deforestation contribute to the degradation of the natural vegetation
cover, a factor that ultimately leads to erosion. Erosion of extensive
productive areas is not only a devastating economic event, but in the
context of this study, it increases the vulnerability of a region to the
damaging effects of extreme climatic incidents
Human settlements
Inadequate zoning regulations in urban areas of Argentina and the
incomplete access to water and sanitation services are partly to blame for
the expansion of the cities towards flood-prone areas. Settlements grow
-2 -



along the banks of major waterways, without consideration to the risks of
flooding. The infrastructure is, in many cases, precarious, aggravating
the extent of the damages and the number of people affected during
flooding events.
Integration of climate change into national planning
Despite the heightened level of attention given to climate change issues
in international circles, linkages between the facts regarding climate
change and preventive decision-making in Argentina remain weak at
national, provincial, district, and private levels. Contributing factors
include the prevalent dichotomy between policy and science, a weak
institutional capacity, and the lack of collaboration between public and
private institutions on climate change issues. Efforts have been made by
government agencies to sponsor interactions between private and public
sectors on issues related to climate change, such as promotional
activities, workshops and studies sponsored by the SecretarUa de Ambiente
y Desarrollo Sustentable (SayDS). However, the severity of the impacts of
climatic events of the past two decades have emphasized the need to
strengthen linkages between climate change issues and national planning.
The contribution to the development of a National Mitigation Program, the
design of a national pilot plan to promote public awareness to adaptation
and mitigation strategies, and the development of an institutional
framework to carry out public awareness activities are critical to
encouraging the formulation of priority plans for mitigation and
adaptation to climate change.
Government Strategy
First National Communication to the UNFCCC
The Government of Argentina submitted its First National Communication to
the UNFCCC in 1997. The project was led by the SecretarUa de Ciencia,
TecnologUa, e Innovaci6n Productiva (SECyT) and the executing agency was
the Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD).
The areas covered by the study and the main findings are summarized as
follows:
1. An inventory of GHG was compiled, following IPCC procedures
2. The overall vulnerability of water resources to climate change was
investigated. It was concluded that:
i.   A decrease in the amount of precipitation in the Southern Cone would
reduce the available volumes of water used for irrigation in the arid and
semi-arid regions of the country
ii.   Higher precipitations would in turn increase the risks of flooding
and inundations in the humid regions of the country.
3. The vulnerability to climate change of two specific ecosystems was
evaluated:
i.   Oases between 29 S and 36 S - These Oases are located at the
foothills of the arid provinces of La Rioja, San Juan and Mendoza, the
water resources of which depend on snow melt from Andean mountain tops.
Increasing temperatures resulting from climatic changes would decrease
minimum levels of snow cover and would therefore have impacts on summer
melting conditions.
ii.   Ocean levels along the Argentine coastline - Two areas were found to
be at risk from flooding due to increasing ocean levels: a) BahUa of
Samboromb6n, in northern Buenos Aires province, where economic losses
would be significant; and b) BahUa Blanca and the RUo Colorado delta in
- 3 -



the south of Buenos Aires province.
4. The vulnerability to climate change of the following two economic
sectors was considered:
i.   Agriculture - It was found that crops would be more affected than
livestock activities. The net impact on crops and pastures was found to
be negative.
ii.   Energy - A reduction in the volumes of water from snow melt was
found to have significant repercussions for the electricity sector.
Indeed, many hydroelectric facilities in the north-eastern region of the
country operate using water from local rivers, the flow of which is
dependent of snow melt.
5. Finally, the impact of climate change on public health was
investigated, and results showed that higher temperatures could lead to
increases in the number of the vectors of certain diseases (e.g. dengue,
malaria, etc.)
GHG inventories were updated in 1999, and a revised version of the First
Communication was submitted to the UNFCCC.
Mitigation strategies
Several projects have been implemented that have contributed to mitigating
air pollution by the Argentine energy sector, which have placed the
country in the forefront of clean energy production. These include: 1)
the construction and operation of several hydropower plants and two
nuclear power plants; 2) the replacement of coal and petroleum derivatives
by natural gas for thermoelectric plants; 3) the promotion of compressed
natural gas (CNG) as motor vehicle fuel; 4) the adoption of specific
regulations to abate gas-flaring; and 5) the reduction of natural gas
flaring at its source.
There have been pilot or sporadic measures implemented such as: (1)
initiatives of co-generation of electricity and heat in industry; (2)
programs for energy-efficient drying of seeds and crops; (3) programs of
efficient street lighting; (4) energy saving initiatives in public and
commercial buildings; and (5) energy-saving residential heating systems.
In spite of the fact that these measures present large saving potentials,
they were not supported by policy initiatives and other measures aimed to
overcome existing market barriers and, consequently, were not adopted by
either energy suppliers or consumers.
In addition, GOA has recently adopted a new set of policies aimed at
reducing future GHG emissions, which include: 1) the promotion of wind and
solar energy through programs of temporary subsidies that have been
recently enacted as national law; 2) the promotion of co-generation
projects and Rational Use of Energy (RUE) programs; 3) the implementation
of the Efficient Lighting Initiative (ELI), an IFC-GEF project developed
through ENDESA-ENDESUR (Argentina) and ELECNOR (Peru), which promotes the
sale of efficient lamps to residential users around the country; and 4)
the implementation of the Renewable Energies in the Rural Market project
(PERMER), supported by the World Bank and GEF, aimed to supply modern
energy based on renewable sources to dispersed rural populations.
Efforts have also been made to reduce emissions from deforestation.
Several afforestation and reforestation programs are developing increasing
interest, particularly within the framework of the Joint Implementation
- 4 -



(JI) and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). Technical cooperation
programs, from Germany and France for instance, have evaluated the
participation of NGOs and other institutions in projects that would
improve carbon-sink capabilities in Argentina. The SAyDS is actively
participating in CDM initiatives and has established the Oficina Argentina
del Mecanismo para un Desarrollo Limpio (OAMDL), with the purpose of
promoting projects that can be implemented within the context of the
CDM.   The OAMDL was amongst the first non-Annex I CDM offices to
formulate detailed guidelines for project preparation and is conducting a
series of workshops to advance in the formulation of LULUCF-CDM projects.
In 1999, with the support of the Government of Canada and of the World
Bank, the GOA published its first National Strategy Study (NSS). These
types of studies promote market-based instruments for GHG reduc-tions
within the framework of the CDM. The results of the first NSS helped
Argentina define its position in global climate change negotiations. A
second NSS is currently being conducted, funded by the Bank, with the main
purpose of identifying a portfolio of GHG mitigation projects that can be
implemented through the CDM. This activity is tightly related to the
development of the National Mitigation Program under the present project
Initiatives currently existing for the achievement of the Convention
Monitoring systems
The occurrence of flooding events related to climate change led to the
establishment of Inter-Province Boards, which are responsible for the
implementation of coordinated measures to address adverse effects of heavy
precipitation and flood events. Other mechanisms have been instituted at
the national level to coordinate responses to emergency situations. The
Sistema de Alerta Hidrol6gico del RUo Parana, for example, is managed from
the Instituto Nacional del Agua (INA), and is charged with the monitoring
and prediction of impacts from extreme climatic events
Programs related to public awareness
Outreach activities to promote public awareness of climate change issues
within Argentina are routinely conducted by both public and private sector
entities as well as by national and international NGOs. These activities
are mainly conducted by the SAyDS and the Federal Council on the
Environment (COFEMA).    During the last two years, the SAyDS organized
several workshops, seminars and public audiences on climate change
issues.   Other Secretariats, such as Science and Technology, Agriculture,
Energy, Transport, and Industry frequently participate in these
activities. On the international front, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
was involved in discussions on membership of global agreements on climate
change. For example, the Ministry took an active role in the negotiation
and adoption of the Kyoto Protocol and the elaboration of its
implementation plan in Argentina, OECD environmental issues, and the
bodies derived from the international and regional agreements dealing with
the Global Change Issues. The Ministry established the Expanded Working
Group on Environmental Issues (Grupo de Trabajo Ampliado sobre Cuestiones
Ambientales - GTACA) in early 1989, which meets regularly to inform
national stakeholders of relevant international discussions. The GTACA
consolidates stakeholder inputs and defines a national position on issues
under debate at international fora.
-5-



2. Objectives
The primary objective of this project is to support enabling activities
for the preparation of the Second National Communication of the Government
of Argentina to the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). This Communication will enable the
Government of Argentina (GOA) to satisfy requirements under Art.12.1 of
the UNFCCC, in accordance with decisions 10/CP.2, 11/CP.2 and 8/CP.5, and
following the new guidelines for the preparation of National
Communications accorded in CP.8. The Government of Argentina submitted
its First National Communication in 1997 and a revised version in 1999.
This project will complement ongoing activities undertaken by the
Government of Argentina to implement the UNFCCC requirements and consists
of five major components. First, studies will be carried out to update
and improve national inventories of greenhouse gases (GHG). Second, the
project will assess the vulnerability of various ecosystems to climate
change and will formulate possible adaptation strategies. To this end,
studies will evaluate the impacts of climate change on: (a) coastal zones
and water resources in different regions of the country; (b) agricultural
production; (c) precipitation patterns; (d) energy system and
infrastructure; and (e) socio-economic sector. Third, the project will
contribute to the formulation of a National Mitigation Program, which will
include measures to reduce national emissions of GHG. Fourth, activities
will be conducted around the country to promote capacity building and
public awareness. Finally, the fifth component of the project will assist
in the drafting of the Second National Communication to the UNFCCC.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank as one of the GEF implementing has extensive experience in the
design of projects which address critical threats to the global
environment such as climate change, biodiversity loss, degradation of
international waters and ozone depletion, throughout the world. The Bank
therefore will facilitate and provide technical expertise and act in an
advisory capacity on design and implementation issues. Its comparative
strength in this area can be used to assist Argentina to provide a
sustainable framework within which it can address the key climate change
issues which it faces. Furthermore, this project will complement on-going
projects in the country and opens up potential opportunities for
Argentina's involvement in Prototype Carbon Fund type projects.
4. Description
The five project components presented in this section were planned such to
result in the preparation of the Second National Communication to the
UNFCCC, in accordance to the new guidelines for the preparation of
National Communications accorded in CP.8. The communication will be
structured according to the categories set out in the GEF Operational
Guidelines for Expedited Funding of Second National Communications from
Non-Annex I Parties. Each sub-component represents a study or activity,
all of which have been conceived as steps towards the implementation of
the Convention in Argentina. These include the update of GHG inventories,
contributions to the development of both adaptation and mitigation
strategies for climate change, public awareness campaigns, and the
drafting of the Second Communication.
- 6-



a. Updating of National GHG Inventories and Development of Emission
Factors:
b. Vulnerability Assessment and Institutional Strengthening for
adaptation
c. Formulation of National Mitigation Plan
d. Promotion of Public Awareness
e. Drafting of Second National Communication to the UNFCCC
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $0.50
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $1.14
Total Project Cost $1.64
6. Implementation
The recipient of the grant will be the Fundaci6n Bariloche -FB, which was
selected for its trajectory, institutional capacity and experience related
to climate change topics to execute the project. It was decided that an
independent NGO could better achieve the project objectives without any
institutional bias and independent from the constant political cycles
present in Argentina. FB will not only compile the results from the
different studies in order to produce the Second National Communication to
the Convention on Climate Change, but also will directly implement
Component A (Update of GHG emissions inventory), given its experience and
participation in previous inventories. All other studies will be
contracted following the World Bank procurement procedures.
The Fundaci6n Bariloche was created in 1963, as a non-profit private
organization engaged in scientific and economic research, and education.
It is associated to the United Nations University (UNU); to UNESCO; to the
International Federation of Institutes for Advanced Studies (IFIAS); and
to the Association of Ibero-american Education Televisi6n (ATEI). The FB
has ample experience in dealing with energy and environment, and in
particular with climate change related topics. In 1990-91 participated in
elaborating a regional document with UNDP and IADB in preparation for the
Rio Summit. Later in 1994 participated with discussion papers for the
Summit of the Americas. It has produced technical documents for GEF and
participated in the making of the national GHG emissions inventories,
undertaken for the FNC to the Parties to the Climate Change Convention,
its revision in 1999, and in the World Bank study on Flexible Mechanisms
established under the Kyoto Protocol. With programs in energy economics,
and environment, the FB has a working relationship with prestigious
international organizations such as WRI, UNDP, CEPAL, IISD, RISO, and the
European Union.
In coordination with the RISA - UNEP Center, the Fundaci6n Bariloche
produced a study on the Economic Aspects of Greenhouse Effect Gas
Mitigation, which examined methodological aspects and conceptual
approaches to evaluation of mitigation actions. Within the same
framework, the project entitled "Energy and the Environment in Argentina:
Past and Future Evolution" was also developed by the FB for the RISA
National Laboratory / UNEP and completed in March 1994.     The project on
Environmental Impacts of the Latin American Energy System 1970 - 1990 /
1990 -2010, was carried out by FB for OLADE and completed in August 1993.
-7 -



There have been different projects related to energy efficiency, both at
domestic and the regional levels, including the Study on the Rational Use
of Energy in Argentina, carried out by Fundaci6n Bariloche within the
framework of the COPED network, with partial financing from DGXVII /
European Union. Another study, "Confronting Climate Change. Economic
Priorities and Climate Protection in Developing Nations, Argentina Case
Study", demonstrated that developing countries have taken significant
steps to reduce GHG emissions with far fewer technological and capital
resources than developed nations. This study was carried out with support
from the National Environmental Trust (NET) and with the participation of
a network of NGOs and academic institutes of several developing countries
(including the FB).
The execution of the project will be directed by a Steering Committee that
will be created with representatives from the main federal authorities
(Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Religion, Secretariats of
Environment and Sustainable Development, Science and Technology and
Innovative Production, Energy; Industry, Transport, Infrastructure, and
Agriculture, the Subsecretariat of Water Resources, National Institute of
Water, and Chief Cabinet of Ministers) as well as relevant members of
academia and the private sector. The Steering Committee, will be presided
by the President of the National Committee on Science and Technology.
The functions of the Steering Committee will be to direct the planning,
implementation, and monitoring stages of the project, by: (a) reviewing
and defining terms of reference; (b) approving final structure of project
documents; (c) overseeing the selection of consultants; (d) defining the
procurement and implementation plans; (e) reviewing studies and
implementation progress; and (f) setting strategic orientation for the
project outputs. The Steering Committee is the link between the Fundaci6n
Bariloche and the Government and stakeholders. As the project involves
strategic studies leading to the adoption of national policies, the
Steering Committee is necessary to ensure proper ownership while keeping
implementation and financial responsibilities under FB's control. The
President of the Steering Committee will be in charge of communicating
with the Bank to request no objections regarding TORs and consultants
selection. Its logistic support will be provided by FB.
To carry out the different tasks associated to the implementation of the
project, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be formed and hosted by
FB. The PIU will provide logistical and administrative support both to the
Steering Committee and to FB. The PIU will also act as a link between the
Steering Committee and the consultants contracted for the project
studies. This unit will have a Project Coordinator, a procurement and
contract analyst, two technical experts with knowledge in mitigation and
vulnerability topics, and one technical assistant.
7. Sustainability
The project will promote integration of climate change concerns into
sector policies and programs, while promoting cross-sectoral coordination.
This will help influence the investments of the country, complementing and
redirecting resources towards mitigation and adaptation options. Joint
financial efforts from different sectors will ensure a synergetic effect
towards reducing GHG emissions and adaptation related costs.
- 8 -



Active participation from all stakeholders in the formulation of policies,
programs and projects oriented to both mitigating and adapting to climate
change will ensure ownership and sustainability. Many of the measures
oriented to reduce GHG emissions also offer economic savings and local
environmental benefits and rational policies to avoid floods, erosion, and
salinization will avoid future corrective and expensive measures.
Sustainability is therefore linked to achieving win-win results, geared by
a participatory and coherent approach.
The project will aim at identifying investment options to be financed
under the Clean Development Mechanism, GEF, or the Carbon Prototype Fund.
Also, the project will identify barriers to measures contributing to
reduce GHG emissions, such as energy efficiency, use of renewable energy,
or a rational transport system integrated to land-use policies; and to
sound adaptation measures involving land-use planning and enforcement, and
adequate infrastructure investment.
Argentina being part of UNFCCC is obligated to continue to produce
National Communications to the convention, showing advance and policies
oriented to comply with its objectives. National adaptation plans will be
necessary to minimize the impact of climate-influenced events such as
flooding, hurricanes, salinization, drought, and the associated
productivity loss.
Finally, to ensure a sustained Government policy towards consistent goals
and objectives in terms of climate change mitigation and adaptation, the
institutional layout will have to be strengthened. Not only will a good
and sustained coordination of policies have to be pursued through the
Steering Committee, but also it will be necessary to train officials at
the institutional level to enhance the national capacity to produce
subsequent National Communications.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The First Communication of the Parties was performed by UNDP in 1997. A
revised communication was produced in 1999. Later that year, the Bank
sponsored the first Argentine NSS, a study on opportunities under the
flexible mechanisms recently established by the Kyoto Protocol. Lessons
learned from those involvements can be summarized as follows:
n Participation of political stakeholders and decision makers in the
development of policies and strategies is of critical importance, as this
will ensure ownership of the project and commitment for the implementation
phase. Since the project will help develop cross-sectoral strategies and
programs, joint participation from all relevant governmental agencies
since the project inception and during its development and implementation
will ensure proper implementation and adequate mainstreaming at the
different sectors.
n A close coordination and supervision of the studies is needed, in
particular with relation to the vulnerability assessments implemented by
local institutions. This will ensure coherence in the approach of the
strategies devised under the study.
n Development of local emission factors and carbon sequestration
-9-



coefficients is important, as Argentina presents particularities not easy
to standardize with general approaches.
n Development of regional circulation models is important to better
estimate vulnerability of fragile and critical ecosystems.
n A strong consultative process with the general public will ensure that
whatever voluntary commitments are assumed or ratified are fully endorsed
by the general population and stakeholders.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Category C
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Juan Lopez-Silva
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5721
Fax:   (202) 522-3132
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop
during the week ending January 24, 2002.
- 10 -



