Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
 
 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051287 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Enabling Activity for the Second National Communication of the Argentine  
Republic to the Convention on Climate Change Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
and 
 
FUNDACION BARILOCHE 
 
Dated January 27, 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF051287 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  January 27, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an 
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds 
provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF and FUNDACION BARILOCHE (the Recipient).  
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over from the first replenishment 
of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; and 
(E) 
the Argentine Republic, through the letter to the Bank dated October 10, 
2002 from its Minister of Foreign Relations, International Trade and Worship, has 
requested that the grant provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Grant) be made 
to the Recipient; and  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Section 2.01, (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16) 
(18) and (21), and Sections 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 (except the proviso therein) and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a)(i), (c), (e), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) 
and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Section 10.01 and Section 10.03; 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f) thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient, except in Section 8.01 (b) where the term 
“Borrower” shall mean the Argentine Republic; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, the account opened by the 
Bank on its books in the name of the Recipient to which the 
amount of the Grant is credited; and 
(vi) 
a new subparagraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “(q) an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the GEF.” 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” means each report prepared 
in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Kyoto Protocol” means the protocol within the framework of the 
UNFCCC (as hereinafter defined), adopted by several world’s governments on Kyoto, 
Japan on December 11, 1997, for the purposes of achieving the stabilization of 
atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations at levels that would prevent dangerous 
anthropogenic (human-induced) interference;  
(c) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
 
“PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Second National Communication to UNFCCC” means the 
communication to be submitted by the Argentine Republic pursuant to Section 12.1 of the 
UNFCC (as hereinafter defined); 
(f) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
(g) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee to be created through an 
Administrative Decision of the Argentine Republic’s Chief Cabinet of Ministers, and 
composed of representatives from: (i) the Argentine Republic’s Ministry of Foreign 
Relations,  International Trade and Worship; (ii) Argentine Republic’s Secretariat of 
Environment and Sustainable Development; (iii) Argentine Republic’s Secretariat of 
Science and Technology and Productive Innovation; (iv) Argentine Republic’s 
Secretariat of Energy; (v) Argentine Republic’s Secretariat of Industry, Commerce and 
Small and Medium Enterprise; (vi) Argentine Republic’s Secretariat of Transport; (vii) 
Argentine Republic’s Secretariat of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Nutrition; (viii) 
Argentine Republic’s Undersecretariat of Water Resources; and (ix) academia and the 
private sector in Argentina; and 
(h) 
“UNFCCC” means the United Nations Framework Convention on 
Climate Change, adopted in New York on May 9, 1992. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one million one hundred forty thousand Dollars 
($1,140,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
Page  6
-
5
-
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project in close consultation with the Steering Committee, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, ecological and 
environmental standards and practices and with due regard to the mandates of UNFCCC 
and the Kyoto Protocol and the relevant decisions adopted by UNFCCC, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational 
Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, containing detailed procedures for the implementation 
of the Project.  
(b) 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend, 
waive or fail to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.  In case of any 
conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Operational Manual, 
the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall maintain, during the execution of the Project, a 
unit (the PIU) responsible for Project coordination and management, such unit to have a 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and to have qualified staff in adequate 
numbers as required to carry out its responsibilities, including a coordinator, two 
specialists with expertise in mitigation and vulnerability issues, a procurement officer and 
a
technical assistant, all with qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 above, the 
Recipient, not later than March 30, 2005 shall have carried out, using its own personnel 
and on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with the terms set 
forth in the Operational Manual, the activities described in Part A of the Project. 
Section 3.06. 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a proposal designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the institutional capacities developed during Project 
implementation; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each year: (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial 
Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 (b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent semester, and shall cover such semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
The Argentine Republic shall have taken any action that may result in the 
dissolution or disestablishment of the Steering Committee, or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
(b) 
The Argentine Republic shall have taken any action, including the 
enactment or issuance of legislation or regulations, which, in the opinion of the Bank, 
after consultation with the Argentine Government, may adversely affect the carrying out 
of the Project activities under the responsibility of the Recipient or the performance by 
the Recipient of any of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Arbitration
 
Section 6.01. Any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement which is 
not settled by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance 
with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the date of this Agreement.  The place 
of arbitration shall be Washington, D.C., United States of America. In the event of a 
conflict between the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the 
terms of this Agreement shall govern. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
Termination
 
Section 7.01. 
The date April 26, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.  
Section 7.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder. 
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 8.01. The Vice-President of the Recipient and any person or persons 
whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as representative of the Recipient 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Fundación Bariloche 
Piedras 482, 2H 1070 
Buenos Aires, 
Argentina 
 
Telephone: Fax: 
 
(5411) 43311816 
(5411) 43344717 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
 Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 
(MCI) (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Buenos Aires, Argentine Republic, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By/s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 Authorized Representative 
 
FUNDACIÓN BARILOCHE 
 
By/s/ Daniel Bouille 
 Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
USD Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
10,000 
100% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ services and audits 
853,000 
100% 
 
(3)  Amount charged by the Recipient 
 
to carry out Part A of the Project 
238,000 
100% 
 
(4) Operating Costs 
39,000
100% 
 
TOTAL 1,140,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Operating Costs” includes reasonable 
expenditures incurred by the Recipient for the management of the Project, such as travel 
costs, rentals, advertisement, maintenance of facilities, consumable materials and 
supplies, and utilities, which would not have been incurred absent the Project. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for services under contracts costing 
less than $60,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
for deposit into the Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion 
thereof as specified by the Bank. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the 
Argentine Republic’s Second National Communication to UNFCCC, through: (i) the 
upgrade of the Argentina’s greenhouse gas inventories; (ii) the assessment of the 
vulnerability to climate change and human action in the Argentine Republic’s territory; 
(iii) the preparation of a national mitigation plan; (iv) the promotion of public awareness; 
and (v) the drafting of the Second National Communication to UNFCCC. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
Part A
:
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories 
Carrying out of an upgrade of the Argentine Republic’s national inventory of 
greenhouse gas emissions, including: (i) the development and update of the greenhouse 
gas emissions inventory; (ii) a comparative analysis of emission trends; (iii) the 
development of local emission factors; and (iv) development of proposals for 
harmonizing of national energy balances with greenhouse gas emissions inventories 
Part B
:
Vulnerability Assessment and Institutional Strengthening for Adaptation
Carrying out of a study to assess: (i) the vulnerability to climate change and 
human action of the coastline of the 
Rio de la Plata
,
northwest of the 
Bahía de 
Samborombón
 and also in the 
Greater Buenos Aires
 area; (ii) the impact of climate 
change on water resources in the 
Pampa Bonaerense
 region, as well as the effects on the 
productivity and vulnerability of agriculture production in said area; (iii) the impact of 
climate change and higher precipitation rates on the major rivers located in the 
Litoral-
Mesopotamia
 area, including the proposal of mitigation and adaptation strategies; (iv) the 
vulnerability to climate change of the 
Patagonia 
region; (v) the overall socio-economic 
impacts of climate change in the Argentine Republic; (vi) the vulnerability of the energy 
system and energy infrastructure; (vii) the necessary steps for the development of 
preliminary national and regional adaptation plans; and (viii) the estimates of regional 
climate change scenarios through Regional Climate Models.   
Page  15
-
14
-
Part C
:
Preparation and Formulation of a National Mitigation Plan
Preparation of a national mitigation plan with the purposes of identifying: (i) 
measures for the reduction of greenhouse emissions, specially in the transport sector; (ii) 
measures for the promotion of energy efficiency, energy savings and renewable energy 
sources; (iii) programs aimed at promoting carbon sequestration and substitution 
programs; and (iv) programs for the reduction of enteric methane emissions. 
 
Part D
:
Promotion of Public Awareness
Design and implementation of a pilot plan for public awareness education of 
government officials and members of the community interested in climate change issues, 
through: the development of: (i) a training program on climate change; and (ii) a 
promotional campaign to disseminate information on climate change. 
Part E
:
Drafting of the Second National Communication to UNFCCC
Preparation of the Second National Communication to UNFCCC on behalf of the 
Argentine Republic, and compilation of additional related information. 
Part F
:
Project Management
Provision of the technical assistance, training and purchase of the necessary 
equipment for the strengthening of the PIU, including carrying out of external audits as 
set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.   
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2006. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consu
ltants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
Shopping
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank (and updated by the 
Recipient annually during Project implementation) for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract awarded under Part B of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
2. 
The short list of consultants to be selected in accordance with this Section II for 
services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and 
footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, the services of consulting 
firms’ shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- 
and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services under Parts B (v), B (vii), C (iii), C (iv), D (iv) and E of the Project, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Auditing services, estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract,  
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Select
ion Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $60,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines
.
5. 
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B (viii) of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
the equivalent of $38,000, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$150,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any request for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every six months during the 
execution of the Project and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as updated from time to time.  
 
Page  19
-
18
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates and the terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4), set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$100,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.   
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 (ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  21
-
20
-
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  22
-
21
-
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
