                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000663




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (MULT-51287)




                                       ON A

                                     GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 1.14 MILLION


                                        TO

                            FUNDACION BARILOCHE

                                     FOR AN

                         ENABLING ACTIVITY FOR THE

   SECOND NATIONAL COMMUNICATION OF THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                  TO THE CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE


                                 November 28, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2007)

                              Currency Unit =
                            1.00 = US$ [ 0.31 ]
                         US$ 1.00 = [ ARS 3.14 ]

                              FISCAL YEAR


                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CIMA    Centro de Investigación del Mar y la Atmosfera (Center for Atmospheric
        and Ocean Studies
CDM     Clean Development Mechanism
CNG     Compressed Natural Gas
COFEMA  Consejo Federal sobre el Medio Ambiente
COP     Conference of Parties
EEM     Energy Efficiency Measures
ELI     Efficient Lighting Initiative
ENARGAS Ente Nacional Regulador del Gas (National Gas Regulatory Agency
ENRE    Ente Nacional Regulador de la Electricidad (National Electricity
        Regulatory Agency)
ENSO    El Niño Southern Oscillation
ESCO    Energy Services Company
FB      Fundación Bariloche
GEF     Global Environmental Facility
GHG     Greenhouse Gases
GOA     Government of Argentina
GTACA   Grupo de Trabajo Ampliado sobre Cuestiones Ambientales
IAS     International Accounting Standards
INA     Instituto Nacional del Agua (National Institute for Water)
INTA    Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (National Institute of
        Farming Technology)
IPCC    Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
LAC     Latin America and the Caribbean
LUCF    Land-use change and forestry activities
MEM     Mercado Electrico Mayorista (Wholesale Electric Power Market)
MTCE    Million Tons of Carbon Equivalent
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
NMP     National Mitigation Program
NMVOC   Non Methane Volatile Organic Compounds
OAMDL   Oficina Argentina del Mecanismo para un Desarrollo Limpio (Argentine
        Clean Development Mechanism Office)

OLADE   Organización Latinoamericana de Energia (Latin American Energy
        Organization)
PAEPRA  Programa de Abastecimiento Electrico a la Población Rural dispersa de
        Argentina (Program for electric energy supply for the rural dispersed
        population of Argentina)
PERMER  Proyecto de Energia Renovables en Mercados Rurales (Project of
        renewable energies in the rural market)
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PNUD    Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (UN Development
        Program)
RE      Renewable Energy
RCM     Regional Circulation Model
SAGPyA  Secretaria de Agricultura, Ganaderia, Pesca y Alimentos (Secretary of
        Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries, and Food)
SAyDS   Secretaria de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable (Secretary of
        Environment and Sustainable Development)
SECyT   Secretaria de Ciencia, Tecnologia, e Innovación Productiva (Secretary of
        Science,Technology, and Productive Innovation)
SNC     Second National Communication
UNFCCC  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
URE     Uso Racional de la Energia (Rational Use of Energy)




                       Vice President: Pamela Cox
                     Country Director: Pedro Alba
                      Sector Manager: Laura Tlaiye
                 Project Team Leader: Walter Vergara
                     ICR Team Leader Walter Vergara

                                           ARGENTINA
                          ENABLING ACTIVITY FOR THE
   SECOND NATIONAL COMMUNICATION OF ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
                 TO THE CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 28
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 30
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 31
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 32
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 35
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 36
 MAP

A. Basic Information
                                                            Enabling Activity for the Second
                                                            National Communication of the
Country:                 Argentina     Project Name:        Argentine Republic to the Convention
                                                            on Climate Change
Project ID:              P078143       L/C/TF Number(s): MULT-51287
ICR Date:                12/01/2007    ICR Type:            Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL           Borrower:            GOVERMENT OF ARGENTINA
Original Total
                         USD 1.1M      Disbursed Amount: USD 1.1M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C              Global Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
Secretaria de Ambiente y Desarrollo Sustentable
UIP Segunda Comunicacion Cambio Climatico
Fundacion Bariloche
Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, Comercio Internacional y Culto
Secretaria de Ciencia y Tecnologia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None


B. Key Dates

       Process               Date               Process          Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:           04/11/2002     Effectiveness:            04/27/2004        02/09/2004
Appraisal:                12/11/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:                 12/18/2003     Mid-term Review:
                                         Closing:                  09/30/2006        03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                 Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
            Bank                    Ratings                  Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:                 Satisfactory     Government:                      Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:           Satisfactory     Implementing
                                                   Agency/Agencies:                 Satisfactory

Overall Bank Performance:          Satisfactory    Overall Borrower
                                                   Performance:                      Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation
       Performance                 Indicators       QAG Assessments (if any)          Rating

Potential Problem Project at
                             No                    Quality at Entry (QEA):      None
any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                        Quality of Supervision
                             No                                                 None
(Yes/No):                                          (QSA):
GEO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                  100                 100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                      Secondary           Secondary
Climate change                                                      Primary            Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                             Primary            Primary
Other environment and natural resources management                Secondary           Secondary


E. Bank Staff
            Positions                           At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:                    Pamela Cox                        Pamela Cox
Country Director:                  Pedro Alba                        Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:                    Laura E. Tlaiye                   John Redwood
Project Team Leader:               Walter Vergara                    Juan Lopez-Silva
ICR Team Leader:                   Walter Vergara
ICR Primary Author:                Walter Vergara
                                   Hernan M. Gonzalez Figueroa

    F. Results Framework Analysis
    Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)

    To contribute to the development of country policies that will be a part of global efforts
    to mitigate climate change.

    Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
    and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

    Not applicable.

     (a) GEO Indicator(s)


                                             Original Target Values  FormallyActual Value Achieved at
      Indicator          Baseline Value          (from approval       Revised  Completion or Target
                                                   documents)         Target
                                                                      Values           Years

Indicator 1 :      Institutional procedures in place to prepare National communications
Value              First National            Second National                 Second National
(quantitative or   communication to the      Communication to the            Communication
Qualitative)       UNFCCC                    UNFCCC                          completed
Date achieved      04/14/1995                09/15/2006                      03/14/2007
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Update GHG emission inventory and trend analysis
Value
(quantitative or   GHG emissions             Updated GHG gas                 GHG inventory updated
Qualitative)       inventory                 inventory

Date achieved      01/15/2004                01/26/2006                      01/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Local emission factors and carbon sequestration
Value
(quantitative or   Local emissions factors   Local emission factors          Local emission factors

Qualitative)       did not exist                                             obtained

Date achieved      01/15/2004                12/31/2005                      01/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Harmonized Energy Balance
Value
(quantitative or   Energy balance under no   Harmonized balance              Energy balance

Qualitative)       control                                                   harmonized

Date achieved      01/15/2004                04/30/2006                      01/30/2006
Comments           100%

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Assessment of vulnerability of particular ecosystems to climate change
Value            Two ecosystems were       Assessment of                    Vulnerability of four
(quantitative or                                                            ecosystems and the
Qualitative)     evaluated                 vulnerability                    energy sector completed
Date achieved     01/15/2004               12/31/2005                       07/13/2006
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 6 :    Assessment of economic impact of Climate Change

Value                                      Assessment of                    Study on economic and
(quantitative or Existing vulnerability    Regional and national            social impacts of climate
Qualitative)     studies                   social vulnerability to
                                           CC                               change completed

Date achieved     01/15/2004               06/01/2005                       07/14/2006
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 7 :    Design of adaptation measures
                 Proposed mitigation and
Value            adaptation strategies that
(quantitative or have been developed as    Portfolio of adaptation          Draft National Adaptation

Qualitative)     a result of vulnerability strategies                       Plan completed

                 studies
Date achieved     01/15/2004               08/28/2005                       11/14/2006
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)
Indicator 8 :    Regional climate change projections from modified general circulation model

Value                                      Update knowledge on              Regional circulation

(quantitative or Scenarios SRESA2S         probable effects of              model completed and

Qualitative)     RESB2 IPCC 2001           climate change                   results from scenarios
                                                                            (SRES) obtained
Date achieved     01/15/2004               10/30/2005                       01/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %          100%
achievement)

Indicator 9 :    Assessment of Technologies and policies that aim at reducing the effects of climate
                 variations
                                                                            Three studies on

Value                                      Availability of                  mitigation options in

(quantitative or Available Technologies    Technologies aiming              energy and transport

Qualitative)                               at reducing effects of           sectors, energy efficiency
                                           Climate Change                   and renewable energy
                                                                            completed
Date achieved     01/15/2004               03/30/2006                       07/14/2006
Comments          100%

(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 10 :     Assessment of priorities and opportunities for mitigation carbon sequestration and
                   technology transfer
Value                                       Priorities and                     Study on opportunities for
(quantitative or                                                               carbon sequestration
Qualitative)                                opportunities assessed             completed
Date achieved                               03/20/2006                         07/14/2006
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)



    (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                             Original Target Values  Formally   Actual Value Achieved at
      Indicator         Baseline Value          (from approval        Revised      Completion or Target
                                                  documents)          Target
                                                                      Values              Years

Indicator 1 :      Information gathering from various economic sectors / Data processing
                                            GHG emission
Value                                       inventory updated /                Data for all inventories
(quantitative or   Data from first GHG      Emission factors /                 collected, inventories
Qualitative)       inventory                Energy Balance                     completed
                                            harmonization
Date achieved      12/31/1995               01/26/2006                         01/26/2006
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)
                   Environmental indicators and data sets / Hydrological budget from various regions/
Indicator 2 :      Mapping of several indicators / Identification of institutional capacity / Review of
                   regulatory framework
                                            Assessment of
                                            vulnerability in
                                            specific ecosystems /
                                            Evaluation of Climate              Nine studies (including
Value                                       Change impacts on                  Adaptation Plan and
(quantitative or   Data available from      Hydrological resources             RCM)were completed
Qualitative)       regional authorities     / Economic Impact                  under the Vulnerability
                                            assessment / Design                component of the project
                                            adaptation measures/
                                            Regional climate
                                            models
Date achieved      06/30/2002               06/22/2006                         07/14/2006
Comments
(incl. %           100%
achievement)

Indicator 3 :      EMM opportunities / Assessment of opportunities for energy efficiency in transport /
                   Assessment of opportunities for carbon sequestration and substitution

                                             EEM opportunities /
                                             Energy efficiency in
                                             the transport sector /

Value                                        renewable energy                 Five studies under the
(quantitative or    Current development of Technologies / carbon              Mitigation component of
Qualitative)        transport sector         sequestration and
                                             substitution /                   the project completed

                                             opportunities for
                                             reduction of enteric
                                             methane emissions
Date achieved       12/31/2002                06/15/2006                      07/14/2006
Comments
(incl. %             100%
achievement)
                    Fostering awareness, Knowledge on how climate change functions, Attitudes
Indicator 4 :       regarding personal and environmental motivation, ability to identify and investigate
                    climate change problems
                                                                              Five seminars carried out,

Value               First National                                            teaching material

(quantitative or    Communication to         Public involvement               developed, TV and radio

Qualitative)        UNFCC                    and awareness                    ads published,
                                                                              participation in TV
                                                                              interviews
Date achieved       12/31/1995                09/15/2006                      09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %             100%
achievement)

Indicator 5 :       Compilation of environmental , economic and social indicators / Draft
                    communication / Consultation with authorities and main stakeholders

Value                                        Draft of the Second              Second National
(quantitative or                             National                         Communication
Qualitative)                                 Communication to
                                             UNFCC                            completed

Date achieved                                 09/15/2006                      03/14/2007
Comments
(incl. %             100%
achievement)


    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


   No.        Date ISR                                                           Actual Disbursements
              Archived              GEO                          IP                 (USD millions)
    1       06/18/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.17
    2       12/10/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.23
    3       04/19/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.30
    4       05/01/2006            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                      0.81

H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country Assistance Strategy. The 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) highlighted the need
for Argentina to take measures aimed at promoting sustainable growth. The 2000 CAS recognized
pollution reduction as a strategy to attain sustainable growth. In this regard, performance was
measured in terms of the Government of Argentina's (GOA) fulfillment of its commitments to
global environmental agreements. One such agreement is the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).
Outside the context of the UNFCCC, the project fit well with the Bank's overall Energy and
Environmental Strategies since issues related to climate change are relevant to both sectors. The
2000 CAS further identified management of water resources as a development priority for
Argentina, with financial support envisioned for funding of projects in water supply and sanitation,
ground water management, flood control, drainage, and irrigation.

Sector Issues. The projected impacts of climate change include increasing temperatures, sea level
rise, and changing precipitation patterns. A series of physical characteristics and cultural traits
make Argentina particularly vulnerable to climate change. The following sections provide brief
descriptions of national priority issues that needed to be addressed in order to reduce potential
negative impacts of climate change.

        Water resources. The wide range of climatic conditions in Argentina result in complex
        water resource management issues. Argentina was repeatedly subjected to periods of
        extreme drought in the dry regions and to floods in the more humid zones. The various
        regions have considerably different water resource issues concerning their surface water
        bodies, groundwater supplies, and irrigation practices.

        Land resources. The lack of effective land management policies in Argentina was a
        contributing factor to the severity of the impacts from climate change-related events.
        Unsustainable land use, soil degradation (e.g. salinization) and deforestation contributed to
        the degradation of the natural vegetation cover, a factor that ultimately leads to erosion.
        Erosion of extensive productive areas increases their vulnerability to the damaging effects
        of extreme climatic incidents.

        Human settlements. Inadequate zoning regulations in urban areas of Argentina and the
        incomplete access to water and sanitation services were partly to blame for the expansion
        of the cities towards flood-prone areas. Settlements grew along the banks of major
        waterways without consideration to the risks of flooding. The infrastructure was, in many
        cases, precarious, aggravating the extent of the damages and the number of people affected
        during flooding events.

Emissions in Argentina. The 1997 inventory of GHG emissions revealed that between




                                                    1

1990-1994 and 1994-1997, GHG emissions increased by 13.7% and 6.2% respectively, a
cumulative increase of 20.7%.1 In 1990, the economy was undergoing a deep recession, followed
by a period of rapid recovery starting in 1992. This recovery manifested itself by an increase in
economic activity and a consequent raise in GHG emissions. The year 1997 marked the peak of
economic activity for the decade, but the decreasing trend of emissions was already evident. A
combination of factors contributed to this decreasing trend of emissions, of which the most
influential were: i) increased power generation from clean energy sources; ii) replacement of the
public transportation fleet with cleaner vehicles; and iii) reduction of total heads of cattle with a
resulting decrease in enteric emissions.

Integration of climate change into national planning. Links between the scientific facts
regarding climate change and preventive decision-making in Argentina remained weak at national,
provincial, district, and private levels. Contributing factors included the prevalent dichotomy
between policy and science, weak institutional capacity, and the lack of collaboration between
public and private institutions on climate change issues. There was an urgent need to strengthen
linkages between climate change issues and national planning through the development of a
National Mitigation Program, a national pilot plan to promote public awareness of adaptation and
mitigation strategies, and the development of an institutional framework to carry out public
awareness activities.

Government Strategy to tackle climate change

First National Communication. The Government of Argentina submitted its First National
Communication (FNC) to the UNFCCC in 1997. The project was led by the Secretaria de Ciencia,
Tecnología, e Innovación Productiva (SECyT). The areas covered by the FNC and the main results
are summarized as follows:

    i. A GHG inventory was compiled following IPCC procedures.

    ii. The FNC investigated the overall vulnerability of water resources to climate change. The
         main conclusions for this sector were:
                  A decrease in the amount of precipitation in the country would reduce the available
                  water resources in most areas;
                  Higher precipitations would in turn increase the risks of flooding.

    iii. The FNC evaluated the vulnerability of two specific ecosystems to climate change:
                  Water resources in the arid provinces of La Rioja, Sun Juan and Mendoza depend
                  on snow melt from Andean mountain tops. Increasing temperatures resulting from



1Figures do not include emissions from changes in crop management or from forstry. GHG emissions in Argentina
mainly originate from:
    i.  Combustion of fossil fuels. This sector released approximately 90% of the CO2 emissions and around 42% of
         the country's total GHG emissions during 1997 (power generation (30%) and transport (33%) account for
         most of the energy-related GHG emissions);
    ii. Enteric fermentation. This sector released 62% of methane emissions and 19% of total GHG emissions in
         1997 (mainly cattle);
    iii. Management of agricultural land. This sector released 95% of total nitrous oxide emissions and 21% of total
         GHG emissions in 1997.

                                                          2

                    climatic changes would decrease snow cover of Andean mountains and would
                    therefore have impacts on the water supply in the region.
                    Two areas along the Argentine coastline were found to be at risk from flooding due
                    to increasing ocean levels: a) Bahia of Samborombón, in northern Buenos Aires
                    province, where economic losses would be significant; and b) Bahia Blanca and the
                    Rio Colorado delta in the south of Buenos Aires province.

    iv. The vulnerability to climate change of the following two economic sectors was considered:
                    Agriculture - It was found that crops would be more affected than livestock
                    activities. The net impact on crops and pastures was found to be negative.
                    Energy - A reduction in the volumes of water from snow melt was found to have
                    significant repercussions for the electricity sector. Indeed, many hydroelectric
                    facilities in the northeastern region of the country operate using water from local
                    rivers, the flow of which is dependent of snow melt.

    v. The FNC investigated the impact of climate change on public health. Results showed that
          higher temperatures could lead to increases in the number of the vectors of certain diseases
          (e.g., dengue, malaria, etc.)

GHG emissions inventories were updated in 1999, and a revised version of the First
Communication was submitted to the UNFCCC.

Mitigation Strategies. Several projects had been implemented that have contributed to mitigating
air pollution by the Argentine energy sector.2 Additionally, pilot measures to reduce energy
consumption and increase efficiency were supported by the GOA.3 Even though these measures
have large energy savings potential, they were not supported by policy initiatives and other
measures aimed to overcome existing market barriers. Consequently, these measures were not
adopted by either energy suppliers or consumers.


Finally, the GOA has also made efforts reduce emissions from deforestation. Several afforestation
and reforestation programs are developing increasing interest, particularly within the framework of
the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). Technical cooperation programs from Germany and
France evaluated the participation of NGOs and other institutions in projects that would improve
carbon-sink capabilities in Argentina. The SAyDS participated actively in CDM initiatives and
established the Oficina Argentina del Mecanismo para un Desarrollo Limpio (OAMDL), with the
purpose of promoting projects that can be implemented within the context of the CDM.4 The


2Among those projects were: i) the construction and operation of several hydropower plants and two nuclear power
plants; ii) the replacement of coal and petroleum derivatives by natural gas for thermoelectric plants; iii) the
promotion of compressed natural gas (CNG) as motor vehicle fuel; iv) the adoption of specific regulations to abate
gas-flaring; and v) the reduction of natural gas flaring at its source.

3Those include i) initiatives of co-generation of electricity and heat in industry; ii) programs for energy-efficient
drying of seeds and crops; iii) programs of efficient street lighting; iv) energy saving initiatives in public and
commercial buildings; and v) energy-saving residential heating systems.

4SAyDS now hosts the Argentine Carbon Facility which is under development with the Bank's Carbon Finance
Assist Program.


                                                              3

  OAMDL was amongst the first non-Annex I CDM offices to formulate detailed guidelines for
  project preparation and conducted a series of workshops to advance in the formulation of LUCF-
  CDM projects.

  1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

  In this context, this project supported the development of Argentina's Second National
  Communication (SNC) to the UNFCCC. The SNC reported on strategies, plans, and programs in
  place to implement the Convention's objectives. This project complemented ongoing activities
  undertaken by the GOA to implement the UNFCCC requirements.

  Global environmental objective. The global environmental objective of this project was to
  contribute to the development of country policies that would be a part of global efforts to mitigate
  climate change. This objective was achieved by financing incremental activities aimed at assessing
  the vulnerability of Argentine ecosystems to climate change and contributing to the development
  of a national mitigation plan aimed at reducing current levels of GHG emissions.

  The project development objective was to support enabling activities for the preparation of the
  Second National Communication (SNC) of the Argentine Republic to the Conference of the
  Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The Government of
  Argentina submitted its First National Communication (FNC) in 1997 and a revised version in
  1999. The SNC would enable the GOA to satisfy requirements under Article 12.1 of the UNFCCC,
  in accordance with decisions 10KP.2, 11KP.2 and 8KP.5. The SNC followed the new guidelines
  for the preparation of National Communications agreed in CP.8.

  Key performance indicators

        Component              Performance indicators
1.  Updating of national       (a) Updated national inventory of GHG emissions and analysis of emission trends of
    GHG inventories                major polluting sectors during the period from 1990 to 2000
                               (b) Development of local GHG emissions factors
                               (c) Harmonized energy balances
2.  Assessment of              (a) Assessment of the impacts of climate change on the coastline of the Rio de la Plata,
    vulnerabilities to climate     on water resources of the Litoral-Mesopotamia, the Pampa Húmeda, and Patagonia
    change                     (b) Assessment of the vulnerability of agricultural productivity on the Pampa Húmeda
                                   to climate change
                               (c) Assessment of socio-economic impacts of climate change on the various ecosystems
                               (d) Proposal of national and regional mitigation and adaptation strategies to reduce the
                                   negative impacts of climate change
                               (e) Assessment of the impact of climate change on the energy sector
                               (f) Model simulations of future climate scenarios
3.  National Mitigation            Development of a National Mitigation Program, including initiatives to reduce GHG
    Program                        emissions through energy efficiency, energy savings, substitution of fuel and energy
                                   sources, changes in transportation modes, and carbon sequestration programs
4.  Promotion of public            Development of national pilot plan to promote public awareness of the global
    awareness                      impacts of climate change, as well as adaptation and mitigation strategies
5.  Drafting of Second         (a) Second National Communication to the UNFCCC
    National Communication     (b) Development of institutional framework and procedures necessary to continue
                                   updating of GHG inventories, preparing National Communications and carrying out
                                   public awareness activities




                                                         4

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original GEO and performance indicators were not revised.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the GEO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The primary beneficiaries of this project were:

         National and provincial governments, as their capacity for incorporating climate change
         dimensions into their planning was strengthened, both in terms of mitigation and
         adaptation responses;
         Stakeholders, whose awareness about climate change impact will allow informed decisions
         relating housing, water and energy use, and productive activities;
         Coastal and delta area communities and tourism interests directly affected by flooding,
         temperature changes, and sea level rise;
         General population from urban centers affected by air pollution and, in particular,
         vulnerable groups such as children and the elderly;
         NGOs, members of the public and academic institutions will benefit from additional
         training and information from project activities.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

This project consisted of five major components:

    i. Updating of national inventories of greenhouse gases (GHG).
    ii. Assessment of the vulnerability of various ecosystems to climate change, including a
         formulation of possible adaptation strategies.
    iii. Formulation of a National Mitigation Program, including measures to reduce national
         emissions of GHG.
    iv. Promotion of capacity building and public awareness.
    v. Drafting of the Second National Communication to the UNFCCC.

Below is a detailed description of each component.

 i.   National GHG Inventories
The main objectives of this component of the project were to: (i) update existing GHG emissions
inventories, (ii) develop own emissions factors, and (iii) harmonize methodologies for developing
energy balance and GHG emission inventories.

 ii.  Assessment of vulnerabilities




                                                  5

This component aimed to expand on a series of vulnerability assessments that was conducted as
part of the First National Communication, which addressed potential impacts of climate change on
various regions of the country.5 These studies took advantage of the development of a high
resolution Regional Circulation Model (RCM) by the CIMA (Centro de Investigación del Mar y la
Atmósfera), at the National Scientific and Technological Center. This new RCM simulated the
effects of climate change on hydrological conditions around the country and suggested adequate
adaptation strategies.

 iii. Formulation of National Mitigation Program
This component aimed to promote the development of a National Mitigation Plan (NMP), which
would include measures for the reduction of national GHG emissions levels in the following areas:
1) Energy Efficiency Measures (EEM), 2) GHG Emission Mitigation in the Transport sector, 3)
Renewable energy sources (RE), 4) Carbon dioxide sequestration, and 5) Reduction of methane
enteric emissions.

 iv. Promotion of Public Awareness
The objective of the public awareness program was to develop education and outreach programs
that focus on the issue of climate change. This project component consisted of two sub-
components, namely a communication campaign at the national level targeting a widespread
audience and a training program for community leaders, as well as for all members of the
community interested in the topic. These two components would be designed in accordance to
guidelines agreed in CP.8.

 v.   Drafting of Second National Communication to UNFCCC
This component was specifically aimed to generate the Second National Communication. The
document would compile results from the various project components and other publicly available
information. The Second National Communication would include the following sections: i)
national statistics; ii) national inventories and emission factors; iii) methodological review and
comparative analysis of previous and current GHG inventories (1990-1994-1997-2000); iv) study
of the possibilities to increase consistency between National Energy Balances and the Inventory of
Emission Source Categories; v) vulnerability assessment and institutional strengthening for
adaptation; vi) preliminary formulation of a National Mitigation Program (NMP); vii)
development of circulation models and climate change scenarios; viii) statement of financial
needs; ix) promotion of public awareness. The Second National Communication was to be drafted
following new guidelines for the preparation of National Communications accorded in CP.8.

 vi. Progress Reports and Workshops
Periodic progress reports on all project components will be routinely evaluated to assess the
adequate advancement of the overall project. Four workshops have been projected with
participation of all coordinators, experts, and assistants with the objective of (i) launching the
project; (ii) assessing progress of various project components; (iii) exchanging information and



5Nine independent vulnerability studies were planned to be conducted: 1) Vulnerability of the coastal zone, 2)
Vulnerability of the Pampa Bonaerense, 3) Vulnerability of agriculture production in the Pampa Húmeda, 4)
Vulnerability of the water resources in the Litoral-Mesopotamia, 5) Vulnerability of the Patagonia, 6) Overall socio-
economic impacts of climate change, 7) Vulnerability of the energy system and energy infrastructure, 8) National
Adaptation Program and regional adaptation plans, and 9) Estimates of regional climate change scenarios through
Regional Climate Models.

                                                          6

results from the various subprojects, particularly the NMP; and (iv) producing a final assessment.
Lectures from experts have been envisioned as one additional method to verify advances in the
completion of objectives.

1.6 Revised Components

Components were not revised, but the project was extended twice. First from March 31, 2006 to
December 31, 2006 in order to allow the studies contracted to be completed, and to allow time for
the main consultant to compile all the results and write the actual National Communication. All of
the studies that would feed the SNC were contracted by the end of 2005, and their final delivery
date was July 2006. The second extension was from December 31, 2006 to March 31, 2007, in
order to allow the government to review the SNC (delivered by the consultant in December 2006).

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

There were no other significant changes.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Lessons from earlier operations. The First Communication of the Parties was performed by
UNDP in 1997. A revised communication was produced in 1999. Later that year, the Bank
sponsored the first Argentine National Strategy Study (NSS) - a study on opportunities under the
flexible mechanisms recently established by the Kyoto Protocol. Lessons learned from those
involvements are summarized as follows:

    Participation of political stakeholders and decision makers in the development of policies and
    strategies is of critical importance, as this will ensure ownership of the project and
    commitment for the implementation phase. Since the project will help develop cross-sectoral
    strategies and programs, joint participation from all relevant governmental agencies since the
    project inception and during its development and implementation will ensure proper
    implementation and adequate mainstreaming in the different sectors.

    Close coordination and supervision of the studies is needed, in particular with relation to the
    vulnerability assessments implemented by local institutions. This will ensure coherence in the
    approach of the strategies devised under the study. For the SNC, it was necessary to develop
    capacity in the country to model future scenarios of climate change. This was done by
    developing a regional circulation model (RCM) instead of using existing General Circulation
    Models due to their shortcomings in the simulation of median and extreme precipitation in the
    La Plata river basin. (The latter do not reproduce adequately the magnitude, the annual cycle
    and the characteristics of extreme precipitation.) Regional scenarios of climate change for
    Argentina were based on an increase in greenhouse gases according to the IPCC "business-as-
    usual" emission scenario. This scenario was used to predict how emissions and the


                                                     7

    atmospheric concentration of GHG might have evolved in the absence of global efforts to limit
    GHG emissions. Predictions of climate for South America were made over the period 1970 ­
    2050. In the case of the vulnerability studies, the planning horizon was selected as the period
    between 2020 and 2040. The results from the RCM were used to determine the impacts of
    climate change and the vulnerability of the different sectors.

    Development of local emission factors and carbon sequestration coefficients is important, as
    Argentina presents particularities not easy to standardize with general approaches.

    Development of regional circulation models is important to better estimate vulnerability of
    fragile and critical ecosystems.

    A strong consultative process with the general public will ensure that whatever voluntary
    commitments are assumed or ratified are fully endorsed by the general population and
    stakeholders.

All these recommendations from previous work have been included in the design of the project.


2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as
applicable)

There were no changes or restructuring of the project. The project risk status was always low.
Nonetheless, as mentioned in Section 1.6, the project was extended twice in order to complete all
the project activities and to allow sufficient time for the government to review the Second
National Communication. Even though this was a very simple operation from the point of view of
procurement (i.e. only studies were carried out, no investments or works contracted), the project
experienced a slow start.

There were two main reasons for this delay. First, the Steering Committee (SC) had a strong role
in the procurement process (see Section 2.3 for a description of the role of the SC). In the end, the
SC approved every step of the consultant selection process (i.e. short/long lists, RFP, technical and
financial reviews, contracting). The GOA faced a trade-off between country ownership of the
project and speed of execution, and gave a higher weight to country ownership. In hindsight, the
project could have limited the responsibilities of the SC to a more strategic scope and rely more on
the Project Implementation Unit to handle the procurement processes. A second reason for the
delay was that a Regional Circulation Model had to be developed in order to forecast weather
changes and analyze the vulnerabilities of the country to climate change. Since contracting of the
Regional Circulation Model was slightly delayed relative to the original schedule, the remaining
activities under component B of the project were also delayed.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The system for M&E of project performance consisted of a series of progress, evaluation, and
completion reports for each of the outcomes and outputs. For instance, with respect to the CAS
goal of promoting sustainable growth, pollution abatement, and the integration of global warming


                                                    8

objectives in local strategies, the progress is measured by the delivery of the Second National
Communication, the National Mitigation Program, and other sector work by the World Bank.

With respect to outputs by each subcomponent, the project M&E also included the delivery of
progress, evaluation, and completion reports. Implementation of M&E was the responsibility of
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Fundación Bariloche, with the oversight of the
Steering Committee (SC). The functions of the Steering Committee were to direct the planning,
implementation, and monitoring stages of the project, by: (a) reviewing and defining terms of
reference; (b) approving final structure of project documents; (c) overseeing the selection of
consultants; (d) defining the procurement and implementation plans; (e) reviewing studies and
implementation progress; and (f) setting strategic orientation for the project outputs.

The PIU routinely updated and submitted to the World Bank a report on the status of each
component, the next steps, and estimated timeframe to carry them out. This report was in the form
of a spreadsheet where each of the components was listed, and included the dates for each
milestone in the procurement process as well as the dates when first, second, and final drafts were
received by each of the consultants. Additionally, the PIU prepared a report at each step of the
procurement process and in the review of report drafts and submitted it to the Bank. All these
steps were necessary, because the Bank was required to, by design of the grant, approve the
release of funds to consultants at each stage of the development of the studies. Finally, minutes
from each meeting of the SC were also prepared describing the decisions made in each meeting.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguards. The objective of the project was to carry out studies that led to the development of
the Second National Communication, therefore none of the Bank's safeguard policies were
applicable. The project was rated as environmental category C. There were also no social issues
associated with the projects objectives.

Financial Management. During project implementation, the implementing agencies maintained
acceptable accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. The financial intermediary,
Fundación Bariloche, supervised project implementation and compliance with all legal covenants
related to financial management. All audit reports were submitted by the implementing agencies
and found acceptable to the Bank.

Procurement. A Procurement Capacity Assessment was conducted by the Bank's Procurement
Specialist (PS) during the appraisal and negotiation mission. The Overall Procurement Risk was
considered high due to the lack of experience of FB in contracting consulting firms under Bank
Guidelines. The PS's recommendations for improving FB's capacity and for mitigating risk
included: a) the review and no objection by the Bank of the specific agreement between the
Government of Argentina and FB regarding the implementation of this project would be a
condition for grant effectiveness; b) the review and no objection by the Bank of the Project
Operational Manual would be a condition for loan effectiveness; c) one experienced Procurement
Specialist should be hired before the first Request for Proposals is submitted to Bank review; and
d) all contracts with firms under every selection method should be subject to Bank prior review.
As for individuals, all contracts to be defined in the Operational Manual should also be subject to

                                                      9

prior review. All of the above conditions were met during project implementation and there were
no procurement issues during the life of the project.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next
phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The Second National Communication (SNC) represents the current status of GHG emissions in the
country, but it also establishes the road map of the areas they are interested in working over the
short to medium term. Two key components of the SNC are the Draft National Adaptation
Strategy to Climate Change (Chapter 6 of the SNC) and the National Mitigation Plan (Chapter 7
of the SNC). The Adaptation Strategy presents a preliminary list of the most vulnerable sectors to
climate change and describes possible directions to address them. Annex 2 to this ICR presents a
summary of these vulnerabilities and the country's adaptation strategy.

The GOA has expressed interest in working with the World Bank in further developing the
country's Adaptation Strategy. In particular, one of the key ecosystems that are expected to be
affected by climate change in Argentina are the Andean Oases. These oases are not only very
important from a biodiversity point of view, but they also support very important economic sectors
such as the agriculture, livestock, and energy sectors. The Cuyo region in Argentina is expected to
face a critical lack of water resources for its economic activities in the medium term. In this
context, the Bank has started discussions with the GOA on the possibility of developing an
adaptation program using GEF funds in the Andean Oases.

Finally, the GOA has also expressed interest in preparing the Third National Communication to
the UNFCCC with the support of the World Bank.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project continued to be consistent with the country's current development priorities and the
Bank's country and sectoral assistance strategies. Argentina has played an important role in the
Climate Change Convention and the Subsidiary Meetings. Argentina is the third emitter of GHG
in the region (0.9% of global emissions)6 and a country that has shown substantial vulnerabilities
to the impacts from Climate Change. The latest CAS identifies climate change as one of the key
areas. Additionally, over last couple of years, the Bank has actively participated in Argentina by
providing a strong stimulus and innovation in areas related to carbon finance and the GEF
program. Furthermore, in the new CAS currently under preparation, the Bank expects to continue
providing assistance to the country in key areas such as energy efficiency, sustainable transport



6WRI, Navigating the numbers, 2005.


                                                    10

and air quality, and carbon finance. These are all topics that have been analyzed under component
C (National Mitigation Plan) of the SNC and are described in Annex 2 of the ICR.

Finally, the Bank understands that Latin America is very vulnerable to changes in global climate,
therefore it is key to develop an adaptation strategy for the countries in the region. In this sense,
the Republic of Argentina is quite advanced as component B included the development of a draft
Adaptation Strategy. The Bank has also started contacts with SAyDS in order further the work
done on adaptation options under the SNC.


3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

The Global Environmental Objective of the project was to support the development of country
policies that will contribute to global efforts to mitigate climate change. This objective was
achieved by financing incremental activities aimed at assessing the vulnerability of Argentine
ecosystems to climate change and by contributing to the development of a national mitigation plan
aimed at reducing current levels of GHG emissions. Both the vulnerability assessment and the
national mitigation plan are included in chapters 6 and 7 of the Second National Communication,
respectively.

The key outcome indicators for this objective were defined as, first, the measurements of variation
of local climatic patterns, and second, results from simulations of global circulation models using
regional indicators. Since the effects of any policies aimed at reducing climate change take a long
period of time to be felt, the measurement of these indicators was not done during the lifetime of
the project. These indicators may be measured in a long term horizon. The project may give a
baseline at best in order to compare future emission measurements.

Other key outcome indicators for the project's development objective are:

    Institutional procedures in place to prepare national communications.

The Climate Change Unit (Dirección de Cambio Climático) within the Secretary of Environment
and Sustainable Development (SAyDS) has been strengthened with professional staff. There is
also a subgroup of professionals in charge of advancing with the preparation of the Third National
Communication. The GOA has unofficially requested the Bank's support in this new endeavor.
This unit now has an area dedicated to adaptation to climate change. The objective of this area is
to develop and carry out a long term adaptation strategy for climate change. A second area within
the Climate Change Unit has also been charged with the objective of preparing the Third National
Communication.

    Updated GHG emissions inventory and trend analysis; Local factors of emissions and carbon
    sequestration; Harmonized Energy Balances.

A trend analysis of GHG emissions was made possible by using the results from component A of
the project and harmonizing energy balances, developing local emissions factors and including
carbon sequestration, and updating GHG emissions inventories for the years 1990, 1994, and 1997.


                                                    11

The results show that GHG emissions in Argentina for the year 2000, not including Land Use
Change and Forestry (LUCF), were 282.0 million tons of CO2-equivalent (see Table 1 in Annex 2).
LUCF is a net sink, therefore when it is included, GHG emissions for 2000 equal 238.7 million
tons CO2-eq. Finally, the total GHG emissions not including LUCF have steadily increased from
231.1 million tons of CO2-eq in 1990 to 282.0 million tons of CO2-eq in 2000. When LUCF is
included, GHG emissions decrease between 1997 (242.0 million tons of CO2-eq) and 2000 (238.7
million tons of CO2-eq). Annex 2 describes the results by component in further detail.

These results are very important as they establish a baseline of emissions for the last decade of the
20th century. Any new estimation of GHG emissions that are carried out can be added to the
existing inventories and trends can be easily analyzed.

    Regional climate change projections from modified General Circulation Model; Assessment of
    vulnerability of particular ecosystems to climate change (coastal zone, Pampa, Patagonia),
    Assessment of Economic impact of climate change.

The Regional Circulation Model was aimed at contributing to the climate modeling efforts being
carried out in Argentina. Simulations on future regional climate episodes were used, and the
results were fed into the development of the regional and national climate change mitigation and
adaptation strategies.

Results from separate general circulation models (GCM) models vary considerably when they are
used for predictions of regional climatic patterns. The reason for the discrepancies is that regional
distribution of climate variables, such as precipitation and temperature, are often strongly
influenced by local features (i.e. topography). The spatial resolution of GCM is typically not
sufficiently refined to capture these features, and consequently the uncertainty of the predictions
increases. GCM results are typically statistically downscaled in order to obtain regional data.

Considering the constraint, limited-area models nested in global circulation models are used to
refine model resolution. This was the methodology used by this project for the development of
regional climate scenarios in Argentina. Regional scenarios of climate change for Argentina were
based on an increase in greenhouse gases according to the IPCC "business-as-usual" emission
scenario. This scenario was used to predict how emissions and the atmospheric concentration of
GHG might have evolved in the absence of global efforts to limit GHG emissions. Predictions of
climate for South America were made over the period 1970 - 2050.

Results for the vulnerability studies and the socio-economic impacts of climate change are
summarized in the paragraph below and Annex 2.

    Design of adaptation measures

The conceptual framework and the methodological approach adopted for the development of the
draft National Adaptation Strategy contain key concepts of the Adaptation Policy Framework7



7Complete Document and related information in: www.undp.org/cc/apf.htm


                                                   12

such as the mechanisms of interactive participation with relevant stakeholders, the inclusion of
adaptation to future climate, as well as the presentation of climate variability. A distinctive
conceptual aspect of the study carried out under the project was the inclusion of the adaptation to
climatic change that has already occurred. This was necessary, because in the southern part of
South America climate trends that have already occurred have affected local economic activities.
Thus, automatic response by the affected people to the changes caused inadequate adaptation
measures which were later corrected (for example, the expansion of the agricultural frontier to the
west of the Pampa).

Four systems were analyzed in great detail in this subcomponent: agriculture, urban settlements,
water resources, and energy systems. The selection of these systems was based on a set of criteria
which responded to the conceptual framework. These systems are sensitive to potential climate
changes, and will require substantial modifications to adapt to the changes. Likewise, these
systems embody strong links between adaptation and development policies. Other systems that
were also included were: (i) the vulnerability of the maritime and the La Plata River coasts to sea
level rise; (ii) the problems, needs and opportunities of the transport system arising from present
and future climatic trends; (iii) the vulnerability of the oases of the Andes mountain foothills in
Cuyo; (iv) the vulnerability of Patagonia; and (v) the impacts on tourism and health as well as the
need to undertake studies of the vulnerability of the ecological systems.

The most significant of these vulnerabilities (or in some cases, opportunities) due to the climatic
and hydrologic changes over the last decades are: (i) increase of the mean annual precipitation in
almost all of Argentina, especially in the Northeast and in the marginal western zone of the
traditional humid region; (ii) increase in the frequency of extreme precipitation patterns in most of
the east and centre of the country; (iii) increase of temperature in the Andean region of Cuyo and
Patagonia with glacier retreats; (iv) increase of river stream flows, and floods in all the country
except in San Juan, Mendoza, Comahue and the north of Patagonia; (v) decrease of discharges in
the rivers of Andean origin in San Juan, Mendoza and Comahue.

The most significant vulnerabilities projected for the period 2020-2040 are: (i) reduction of the
water level in the La Plata Basin rivers because of surface and air warming; (ii) increase of the
water stress in all the north and part of the west of the country due to the same cause; (iii) potential
water crisis in Mendoza, San Juan and Comahue; (iv) increase in maintenance costs due to high
frequency of intense precipitation and floods in the zones currently affected; (v) further glacier
retreat (vi) increased vulnerability of some locations on the maritime seaboard and on the coast of
the La Plata River because of the predicted rise in sea level.

As mentioned before, Argentina has done significant work in the field of adaptation to climate
change. Next steps would include the further examination of the results from the draft adaptation
plan and the preparation of a project on adaptation on a topic of priority to the government. In this
regard, the Bank has started discussions with the SAyDS on the preparation of an adaptation
program in the Cuyo region.

    Assessment of technologies and policies that aim at reducing the effects of climatic variations

The National Mitigation Plan (Chapter 7 of the SNC) focuses on five different types of measures:
(i) energy efficiency measures, (ii) mitigation measures in the energy and transportation sectors,
(iii) mitigation measures through the use of renewable energy sources, (iv) mitigation of GHG

                                                   13

emissions through carbon sequestration, and (v) mitigation measures through reduction in the
emissions of enteric methane. These measures combined have an estimated potential of reducing
more than 60 million tons of CO2-eq over a 15 to 20-year time horizon. Annex 2 presents a
summary of the measures analyzed by sector. The size of emission reduction presents a possibility
of new GEF or CDM operations in the country.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

This is a GEF Enabling Activity, thus a formal economic analysis for investment was not done either at
appraisal or at completion.



3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating reflects the fact that the project achieved all the measurable outcome indicators defined
in the PAD. Specifically, the project developed Argentina's Second National Communication to
the UNFCCC; a regional circulation model was developed at the CIMA; nine vulnerability studies
covering the entire country were completed; an initial Adaptation Strategy for Argentina was
developed; five mitigation studies were completed addressing the key sectors in the economy; a
communication strategy and education manuals were developed; and dissemination of results were
carried out. The institutional capacity was strengthened. The results of these outputs are
contributing to the development of policies at national and regional levels to mitigate climate
change and adapt to the impacts from the changes. A series of follow up activities are being
planned. Thus, the project has achieved its objective.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Climate Change is expected to have negative impacts in Argentina. Typically, it hits the poor the
hardest. The key impacts expected in Argentina are:

         The volume of water of the Plata river basin is expected to decrease due to an increase in
         temperature, which will bring problems such as an increase in pollutant concentration and
         difficulties with river navigation;
         Increase in temperatures is also expected to bring water stress in the northern and
         northwestern part of the country. This would affect farming and the supply of drinking
         water;
         Precipitation levels are expected to decrease in the Andes, disrupting hydroelectric
         generation in the provinces of Mendoza, Rio Negro and Tucuman. Additionally, the
         existing economic development model in Mendoza and San Juan is expected to be severely
         conditioned--this model is based on irrigation from rivers born in the Andean oases;


                                                    14

        Glaciers are expected to continue their retreat tendency in the Patagonia and Cuyo regions;
        The high frequency of intense rainfalls and floods is expected to continue in the areas
        currently affected by these precipitation patterns;
        The expected increase in the sea level is expected to affect the country's coastline as well
        as the coast in the Rio de la Plata.

The Draft National Adaptation Strategy highlights key vulnerabilities of the country to climate
change. It establishes a preliminary list of activities and how these activities will become
important in the long run. In other words, the list presents likely priorities among the impacts and
the associated activities. This list of priorities represents a preliminary pathway to adapt to the
changes in the climate and reduce the impacts of this change.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

One key aspect of this project is that it developed the capacity of Argentina to develop circulation
models in order to forecast the changes in climate. This is a key tool to develop scenarios in order
to analyze the potential impacts of climate change. All of the vulnerability studies relied on these
scenarios.

Though a wealth of information was developed in this project, the Secretariat of Environment does
not have the capacity to update GHG inventories. The FB was in charge of updating the
inventories and made this information available to the SAyDS. But there is no person formally
trained to carry out these activities. It is also necessary to create this capacity in the near future in
the SAyDS. This is a key issue that should be taken into consideration in further National
Communication efforts.

Nonetheless, the SAyDS has strengthened its Climate Change Unit as a result of the project and
now has two sectors dedicated exclusively to Adaptation to Climate Change and to the
development of the Third National Communication. Additionally, the SAyDS has been working
actively on CDM projects. The new existing capacity is key in the development of the two new
steps that will follow in the short term: the development of an adaptation project and the
development of the Third National Communication.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

None


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)



4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: low

The risk that the development outcome of this project will not be maintained is low. Both
adaptation and mitigation strategies were outlined and the second national communication was


                                                      15

developed. The Bank and the GOA have engaged in talks to develop a project in adaptation (one
of the priorities outlined in the Draft National Adaptation Plan), and more recently, the GOA
requested the Bank to support it in the development of the Third National Communication.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was designed in a manner that involved a high level of involvement from the Bank
during the development of the project. Given the lack of expertise from FB in procurement matters
(though their technical capacity is beyond question), the Bank Procurement Team requested that
all activities in the project require prior review by the Bank. Even though this demanded a greater
effort on behalf of the Bank, it ensured that all procedures be followed correctly and it also gave
the Bank an additional tool to monitor to development of the different stages of the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The role of the Bank was to help the government in the design of the TORs and provide comments
to the documents as they were prepared. The Bank also participated in the two seminars where the
first and final drafts of the studies were presented and assisted in the enhancement of the overall
quality. The Bank carried out periodical missions and was in constant contact with the client. The
Bank worked closely with the client to ensure that the objectives of the project were met.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

As described above, the Bank team has provided the due attention and technical support to the
client in the preparation and the implementation of the project. Thus, the overall performance is
rated satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall government performance is satisfactory. The nature of the project required a strong
sense of ownership. The Steering Committee had a strong presence in all intermediate steps of the
project, causing it, on one hand, to slow down the implementation, but on the other hand, to ensure
that the final products are satisfactory to the government. The Implementation Unit was composed
of individuals with established reputations in the field of climate change. This ensured a high level
of quality of the products and the outcomes.



                                                   16

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Fundación Bariloche had a dual role in the project. It acted as recipient of the funds, directly
receiving the funds. While the PIU handled procurement processes, FB dealt with contracting and
payments to the consultants. It was also in charge of component 1 (updating GHG emissions
inventory, developing national emission factors, and harmonizing national energy balances and
GHG emissions inventories). Its work was of very high quality and delivered in an appropriate
timeframe. With regards to the management of funds, there were no issues reported by the annual
audits. Their overall performance is therefore satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Given the performance of the Government and the implementing agency, the overall borrower
performance is rated satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Quality of SNC. The key to develop a high quality SNC rested in obtaining high quality products
(i.e. inventory, vulnerability, and mitigation studies). Technical capacity of local consultants in
Argentina is high on average; therefore the quality of the products was good. Additionally, the
PIU worked closely with contracted firms as soon as they were selected, providing feedback on
their proposals and early drafts ensuring these would meet their objectives using technically sound
methods.

National Ownership. As described above, there was a trade-off between speed of execution and
project ownership on behalf of the GOA. There was a strong presence of the SC in all procurement
steps, causing it to slow down the process, while ensuring that the final products are satisfactory to
the government. The project could have sought to redirect the focus of the SC to more technical
aspects. But having a SC would still be useful. In this way, the different institutions can participate
in the development of the strategic documents where there are many cross sectoral issues such as
energy efficiency, forestry, socio economic impacts, etc. To complement, the role of the PIU
should be stronger.

Development of Future Climate Scenarios. In the climate change context, the only methodology
accepted by the international community to estimate future climatic conditions is the development
of climate scenarios. The methodology most commonly used is the use of global climate model
combined with high resolution regional models. Nonetheless, these models have some
shortcomings in the simulation of median and extreme precipitation in the Plata river basin. These
models do not reproduce adequately the magnitude, the annual cycle and the characteristics of
extreme precipitation. The project opted to develop a regional circulation model that reduces the
uncertainty found in global climate models when applied at the local scale.

Analysis of vulnerabilities was done based on two types of data--data on the changes in climate
for the last 30 or 40 years and predictions of climate/rain/temperature patterns for the period 2020-

                                                  17

2040. It was possible to draw robust conclusions, as they are based on roughly 40 years worth of
data. The summary of the conclusions are described in Section 3.2 and in Annex 10.

Results of Assessments. The project produced three key results that provide useful lessons for the
future climate change planning:

a.      Greenhouse gas emissions inventories
The revised emissions inventories for the years 1990, 1994, 1997, and 2000 show that GHG
emissions increased steadily between 1990 and 20008. Additionally, LUCF acts as a sink, and the
energy and the agricultural and livestock sectors are responsible for over 90% of the country's
total GHG emissions. These results are very important as they establish a baseline of emissions for
the last decade of the 20th century. Any new estimation of GHG emissions that are carried out can
be added to the existing inventories and trends can be easily analyzed. This will be very useful in
the long term, for instance, when the Third National Communication is completed,

b.      Adaptation strategy and National Mitigation Plan
An adaptation strategy was developed as part of the SNC. The results that compose the adaptation
strategy are discussed in Annex 2. The vulnerabilities identified by the different studies show that
the significant climate changes that have occurred over the last 40 years have lead to an increase
of the agricultural and livestock sectors frontiers to the north and west of the traditional
agricultural area. This adaptation measure has been successful in economic terms in the short term,
but can have significant environmental impacts according to climate projections for the coming
decades.

c.      Capacity building
Capacity building and Public awareness was targeted to all interested stakeholders in Argentina.
There were 5 seminars carried out that were open to all interested parties (NGOs, Academia,
Government). It was important that the results from all the studies carried out in the SNC were
discussed in different seminars carried out with all interested stakeholders. Also, some of the
members of the PIU often appeared in TV and radio programs where they discussed current issues
related to climate change. Additionally, training manuals were developed for schools (targeted for
children) with the objective of including them into the school curricula. Also, the institutional
strengthening of the Climate Change Unit is essential to take charge of the adaptation and
mitigation programs. Now the Unit includes professionals with experience in the analysis of
vulnerabilities to climate change and of designing adaptation and mitigation measures, as they
were part of the PIU and followed the process of development of the SNC. Finally, members of
the PIU have learned the Bank and GEF business processes.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The role of the SC in the procurement process caused several delays in the execution of the project.
Its participation in this area should be limited in time and explicitly included in the project



8Total Net emissions including sink from Land Use Change and Forestry (LUCF) dropped between 1990 and 2000.


                                                           18

schedule. It is necessary to include the possibility of an "un-tying" vote in the rules of the SC.
Delays were also repeated at the end of the project as SC had to review and approve final reports.

Changes in the composition of the PIU due to differences in opinion between the coordinator and
some members of the SC are not necessarily on the issues related to the project. Wages for the PIU
members were very low from the beginning of the project due to reasons related to the project and
because the World Bank did not want to include a clause in the contracts allowing the contracts to
be adjusted over time. When the project concluded, this member continues participating actively
in issues related to the project, even though he does not have a contract, including the drafting of
the text included in this annex.

Changing the location of the PIU is not good for the project, especially during project execution. It
can only bring delays, administrative problems, and possible loss of documentation.

The permanent contact with World Bank team and flexibility are very positive aspects of the
experience. The approach allowed the team to carry out the activities and the details not originally
included. It also gave the team confidence and security in handling complex issues related to the
project.


(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Not applicable.




                                                   19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                            Budget        Actual Expenses
 Component                                                                  in US$            in US$
 A. Update of National Greenhouse gas emissions inventories                 $ 240,000.00       $ 238,000.00
 B. Vulnerability Studies
         B1.     Vulnerability of the coastal zone                            $ 45,000.00       $ 43,793.10
         B2.     Vulnerability of the hydro resources in the El Litoral-     $ 40,000.00        $ 39,286.01
               Mesopotamia region
         B3.     Vulnerability of the hydro resources in the Pampa           $ 45,000.00        $ 38,775.21
               Humeda region
         B4.     Vulnerability of the agriculture production area at la      $ 45,000.00        $ 43,428.28
               Pampa
         B5.     Vulnerability of the Patagonia region                       $ 47,000.00        $ 45,862.07
         B6.     Socio-economic impacts of climate change                     $ 37,000.00       $ 38,552.53

         B7.     Vulnerability of the energy sector                           $ 25,000.00       $ 25,360.00
         B8.     National adaptation plan and regional adaptation plan        $ 31,000.00       $ 31,000.00

         B9.     Regional circulation models                                 $ 40,000.00        $ 38,775.51

                                                Total for Component B       $ 355,000.00       $ 344,832.71
 C. Mitigation Studies

         C1.    Energy efficiency measures                                    $ 40,000.00       $ 40,000.00
         C2.    Mitigation measures in the energy and transportation         $ 60,000.00        $ 60,000.00
               sectors
         C3.    Mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions through the use       $ 40,000.00        $ 40,000.00
               of renewable energy sources
         C4.    Mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon        $ 45,000.00        $ 49,122.80
               sequestration
         C5.    Mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions through               $ 30,000.00        $ 44,827.59
               reduction in the emissions of enteric methane
                                                Total for Component C       $ 215,000.00       $ 233,950.39
 D. Public Awareness
         D1.    Communications campaign                                       $ 56,000.00       $ 38,175.00
         D2.    Training program                                             $ 35,000.00        $ 31,398.60
         D3.    Project website                                                $ 8,000.00        $ 8,000.00
         D4.    Technical Assistance                                           $ 6,000.00        $ 5,143.00

                                                Total for Component C       $ 105,000.00        $ 82,716.60
 E. Second National Communication                                            $ 19,000.00        $ 19,000.00
 F. Project Management                                                      $ 176,000.00       $ 199,353.18
 G. Project Audit                                                            $ 30,000.00        $ 22,147.12
                                                          Project Total    $ 1,140,000.00    $ 1,140,000.00




                                                        20

(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest
           Source of Funds            Type of                              Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing   Estimate      Estimate
                                              (USD millions) (USD millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                      0.50          0.50           100.00
Global Environment Facility (GEF)  Grant      1.14          1.14           100.00




                                          21

  Annex 2. Outputs by Component

  a.        National inventories of greenhouse gases

  The main objectives of this component were to upgrade national inventories of GHG emissions and to
  develop indicators for evaluation of national emission trends. The Fundación Bariloche (FB) was
  responsible for carrying out this project. GHG emissions reported in the National Communication include
  CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, and SF6. In addition, SO2 emissions and precursors for tropospheric ozone
  (CO, NMVOC, NOX) are also reported.

  The tables below contain the main results from the GHG inventory. Table 1 presents a summary of GHG
  emissions for the year 2000 by source. Table 2 compares the total GHG emissions (with and without land
  use change) for the 1990, 1994, 1997, and 2000 inventories. Finally, Table 3 provides a detailed GHG
  inventory by source.

  The main conclusions from this component are:

            Estimated GHG emissions (not including Land Use Change and Forestry--LUCF) for the year
            2000 are 282.0 million tons of CO2-equivalent. When LUCF is included, emissions for the same
            year equal 238.7 million tons CO2-eq.
            LUCF is a net sink, absorbing 43.9 million tons of CO2-eq during the year 2000.
            Total GHG emissions (no including LUCF) have steadily increased from 231.1 million tons of
            CO2-eq in 1990 to 282.0 million tons of CO2-eq in 2000. When LUCF is included, GHG emissions
            decrease between 1997 (242.0 million tons of CO2-eq) and 2000 (238.7 million tons of CO2-eq).
            Total GHG emissions (in CO2-eq), can be disaggregated by type of gas as follows: 45.5%
            corresponds to CO2, 30.1% to CH4, 23.9% to N2O, and 0.5% to the remaining GHG.
            The key emitting sectors are, first, the energy sector, with 46.8% of the total GHG emissions,
            followed by Agriculture and Livestock with 44.3%, Waste 5%, and Industrial processes with the
            remaining 3.9%. The large proportion of GHG emissions coming from the Agriculture and
            Livestock sector reflect the production characteristics of the country.

  Additionally, a list of revised emissions factors can be found in Annex II to the SNC. Revisions to the 1990,
  1994 and 1997 inventories can be found in Annex III to the SNC. A table with uncertainties surrounding
  the estimated GHG emissions can be found in Annex IV to the SNC.

                                   Table A1-1. GHG emissions inventory by source, 2000.
                                               (in million tons of CO2-equivalent)
                   Category                        CO2         CH4        N2O       HFCs         PFCs           SF6        Total
Total Net Emissions(1)                                84.38      85.43       67.56       0.95         0.33         0.005      238.70

1. Energy                                            118.71      12.24        1.01                                            131.96

2. Industrial processes                                 9.61     0.003        0.15       0.95         0.33         0.005       11.11

4. Agriculture and livestock                                     59.53       65.39                                            124.92

5. Land use change and forestry(1)                   -43.94        0.58      0.006                                             -43.30

6. Waste                                                         13.05        0.96                                             14.01

International bunkers                                   4.66     0.004       0.004                                               4.71

CO2 emissions from burning of Biomass                 12.48                                                                    12.48

Emissions from burning of grasslands                               4.38       0.80                                               5.18
(1)Total Net emissions include emissions from Land Use Change and Forestry (LUCF). Positive (+) quantities refer to emissions, while
negative (-) quantities refer to links.
Total CO2 - equivalent emissions excluding LUCF                                                                               282.00

Total CO2 - equivalent emissions including LUCF                                                                               238.70


                                                                22

                                       Table A1-2. GHG emissions between 1990 and 2000.
                                                    (in million tons of CO2-equivalent)
                                        Category                    1990          1994       1997      2000

               Total emissions, including LUCF                     216.29        223.34     241.96     238.70

               Total emissions, excluding LUCF                     231.05        257.52     270.91     282.00




                                       Table A1-3. Detailed GHG emissions by source, 2007

Year 2000                                               CO2   (1)    CH4        N2O     HFCs    PFCs      SF6     Total
Total (Net Emissions)(1)                                     84.38      85.43     67.56   0.95     0.33      0.05  238.70
1. Energy                                                   118.71      12.24      1.01                            131.96
    A. Fuel consumption (per sector)                        117.66       1.23      1.00                            119.89
       1. Energy Industry                                    35.57       0.17      0.31                             36.05
       2. Manufacturing Industry                             15.06       0.08      0.16                             15.30
       3. Transport                                          38.97       0.87      0.39                             40.24
       4. Residential                                        17.14       0.08      0.03                             17.25
       5. Commercial                                          3.13       0.00      0.04                              3.17
       6. Agriculture and livestock                           7.51       0.02      0.06                              7.59
       7. Othters                                             0.29       0.00      0.00                              0.29
    B. Fugitive Emissions                                     1.05      11.01      0.01                             12.07
       1. Mineral Carbon                                      0.00       0.23      0.00                              0.23
       2. Production of Oil and Natural Gas                   1.05      10.78      0.01                             11.84
             2.1. Production of Oil                           0.00       0.25      0.01                              0.25
             2.2. Production of Natural Gas                   1.05      10.53      0.00                             11.59
                  Production of Natural Gas                   0.00       3.21      0.00                              3.21
                  Transport and Distribution                  0.01       4.41      0.00                              4.43
                  Consumption other than Residential          0.00       1.66      0.00                              1.66
                  Residential Consumption                     0.00       0.23      0.00                              0.23
                  Venting                                     1.04       1.02      0.00                              2.06
2. Industrial Processes                                       9.61       0.03      0.15   0.95     0.33      0.05   11.11
    A. Mineral Products                                       3.27       0.00      0.00                              3.27
       1. Cement Production                                   2.69       0.00      0.00                              2.69
       2. Lime Production                                     0.51       0.00      0.00                              0.51
       3. Use of Limestones and Dolomite                      0.07       0.00      0.00                              0.07
    B. Chemical Industry                                      0.87       0.03      0.15   0.00     0.00      0.00    1.04
       1. Ammonia Production ­ to produce Urea                0.73       0.00      0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.73
       2. Nitric Acid Production                              0.00       0.00      0.15   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.15
       3. Production of adipic acid                           0.00       0.00      0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
       4. Production of calcium carbide                       0.08       0.00      0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.08
       5 Others (Petrochemical Industry)                      0.06       0.03      0.00   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.09
    C. Metal Production                                       5.48       0.00      0.00            0.33      0.00    5.81
       1. Iron and Steel                                      5.06       0.00      0.00            0.00      0.00    5.06
       2. Aluminum                                            0.42       0.00      0.00            0.33      0.00    0.74
       3. SF6 used for fusing aluminum and magnesium          0.00       0.00      0.00            0.00      0.00    0.00
    D. Other Productions                                      0.00                                                   0.00
       1. Foods and Drinks                                    0.00                                                   0.00
    E. Production of Halocarbon and SF6                                                   0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00


                                                                     23

                                      Table A1-3. Detailed GHG emissions by source, 2007

Year 2000                                                 CO2  (1)    CH4            N2O        HFCs         PFCs          SF6         Total
    F. Consumption of Halocarbon and SF6                                                             0.95          0.00         0.05        1.00
4. Agriculture and Livestock                                             59.53          65.39                                            124.92
    A. Enteric Fermentation                                              57.53                                                             57.53
    B. Management of Animal Manure                                         1.20          0.16                                               1.36
    C. Rice Paddy                                                          0.65                                                             0.65
    D. Burning Savannah                                                    0.00          0.00                                               0.00
    E. Burning Agricultural Wastes                                         0.16          0.04                                               0.20
    F. Use of Agricultural Soil                                            0.00         65.19                                              65.19
    G. Others                                                              0.00          0.00                                               0.00
5. Land Use Change and Forestry(1)                           -43.94        0.58          0.06                                             -43.30
6. Waste                                                                 13.05           0.96                                              14.01
    A. Solid Wastes and Landfill                                           7.50                                                             7.50
    B. Human Feces                                                         0.00          0.00                                               0.00
    C. Domestic Waste Water                                                3.43          0.96                                               4.40
    D. Industrial Waste Water                                              2.11          0.00                                               2.11
International Bunkers                                          4.66        0.00          0.04                                               4.71
    A. Maritime Transport                                      1.74        0.00          0.01                                               1.76
    B. Air Transport                                           2.92        0.00          0.03                                               2.95

CO2 emissions from burning of Biomass                         12.48                                                                        12.48
Emissions from burning of grasslands                           0.00        4.38          0.80                                               5.18
(1)The net emissions are reported for the emission of CO2 corresponding to change in the land use and forestry. For the purpose of the
report, the symbols for capture are always "-" and for emissions are "+."
(2)According to the IPCC Guidelines (Volume 3. Manual of References, pp. 4.2, 4.87), the CO2 emissions from agricultural lands are
included in the land use and forestry. At the same time, the Summary Report 7A (Volume 1. Instructions for the report, Table.27) allows
reporting emissions and capture of CO2 from agricultural lands, either in the agriculture sector in D. Suelos Agrícolas or in the land use
change and forestry in D. Emissions and removal from the land. The Parties can choose the place where to report these absorptions and
emissions to avoid double counting. In this case, the emission and absorption of CO2 for the part of the agricultural lands are reported
under the land use change and forestry.

Source and Sink of GHG                                                 CO2           CO2         Net CO2        CH4         N2O         Total

                                                                     Emissions   Absorptions
Land Use Change and Forestry
                                                                                               CO2 Equivalent (Gg )
    A. Change in forests and other stocks of woody
biomass                                                                    0,00    -15.750,14    -15.750,14                           -15.750,14

    B. Conversion of forests and pastures                             9.248,99                     9.248,99     583,78        59,25     9.892,02

    C. Abandonment of managed lands                                        0,00    -48.747,49    -48.747,49                           -48.747,49

    D. Impact of the agriculture above ground                         11.307,76          0,00     11.307,76                            11.307,76

    E. Others                                                              0,00          0,00          0,00        0,00         0,00        0,00
Total Emissions of CO2Equivalent from Land Use
Change and Forestry                                                   20.556,75    -64.497,63    -43.940,88     583,78        59,25   -43.297,85



Total CO2 Equivalent emissions ­ Excluding LUCF     (a)                                                                              282.000,75

Total CO2 Equivalent emissions ­ Including LUCF    (a)                                                                               238.702,89
(a)The information in this row is required to facilitate the comparison of the data, because the Parties differs in the form in which they
report the emissions and absorptions from the land use change and forestry sector.




                                                                      24

b.      Vulnerability of various ecosystems to climate change

Argentina is a country with high potential to be vulnerable by climate change: it has a high percentage of
primary and farm based product exports. Additionally, there's a high dependency on hydro resources for
the generation of electricity. In this context, several vulnerability studies were carried out to assess the
impacts of climate change on the water resources of the humid region of the country, where most of the
country's population is located and most of the economic activity of the country occurs. These studies will
be the base for the future development of a Long-term Adaptation Plan. Also, this component supported the
generation of regional climate change projections using high-resolution atmospheric circulation models.
The regional climate change projections were used to describe potential changes in climate in a horizon of
10 to 40 years.

The following studies were completed under this component:
        Vulnerability of the coastal zone;
        Vulnerability of the hydro resources in the El Litoral-Mesopotamia region;
        Vulnerability of the hydro resources in the Pampa Humeda region;
        Vulnerability of the agriculture production area at la Pampa;
        Vulnerability of the Patagonia region;
        Socio-economic impacts of climate change;
        Vulnerability of the energy sector;
        National adaptation plan and regional adaptation plan;
        Regional circulation models.

Below is a list of the country's main vulnerabilities for the period 2020-2040, as described in the Draft
National Adaptation Plan.

        The volume of water of the La Plata river basin is expected to decrease due to an increase in
        temperature. This will bring problems such as a reduction in hydroelectric power generation,
        increase in pollutants, and difficulties with river navigation;
        Increase in temperatures is also expected to bring water stress in the northern and northwestern part
        of the country. This would affect farming and the supply of drinking water;
        Precipitation levels are expected to decrease in the Andes, disrupting hydroelectric generation in
        the provinces of Mendoza, Rio Negro and Tucuman. Additionally, the existing economic
        development model in Mendoza and San Juan is expected to be severely conditioned--this model
        is based on irrigation from rivers born in the Andean oases;
        Glaciers are expected to continue their retreat tendency in the Patagonia and Cuyo regions;
        The high frequency of intense rainfalls and floods is expected to continue in the areas currently
        affected by these;
        The expected increase in the sea level is expected to affect the country's coastline as well as the
        coast in the Rio de la Plata.

A special circumstance in Argentina needs to be mentioned--the significant climate changes that have
occurred over the last 40 years have lead to an increase of the agricultural and livestock sectors frontiers to
the north and west of the traditional agricultural area. This adaptation measure has been successful in
economic terms in the short term, but can have significant environmental impacts according to climate
projections for the coming decades.


c.      Mitigation studies

A National Mitigation Program (NMP) was formulated in the SNC, which included proposals for measures
aimed at reducing national GHG emissions. The NMP helps identify opportunities for mitigation of

                                                        25

emissions through (i) measures that promote energy efficiency and energy savings, (ii) measures that
promote renewable energy sources, (iii) programs aimed at reducing emissions in the transportation sector,
and (iv) programs aimed at promoting carbon sequestration and substitution programs. It will also consider
options to reduce methane emissions from both waste and enteric fermentation.

The following studies on mitigation measures were completed:
                        Energy efficiency measures;
                        Mitigation measures in the energy and transportation sectors;
                        Mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions through the use of renewable energy sources;
                        Mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions through carbon sequestration;
                        Mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions through reduction in the emissions of enteric
                        methane.

These studies have identified feasible measures and mitigation policies that could reduce GHG emissions
by more than 60 million tons of CO2-eq over a 15 to 20 year time horizon. Table C-1 gives a summary of
the mitigation measures analyzed and their expected impacts in terms of tons of CO2-eq eliminated or
avoided. The main problem with these measures is that they typically have a high initial cost and, given the
limited financial resources available in the country and the priority given to social programs and to
reducing poverty, it will be difficult for these measures to take shape without outside support.

                           Table A2-1. Mitigation options and its estimated impact
                                                                                         Estimated reduction

             Sector                               Impact on resources                      GHG emissions,
                                                                                            in million tons
                                                                                              of CO2-eq
Energy efficiency measures
Improve insulation in            - Reduce consumption of natural gas for heating.                1.17
buildings                        - Reduce consumption of electricity for space cooling.
Compact fluorescent lamps        Save electricity consumption                                    1.11
Efficient refrigerators          Reduce electricity consumption                                  0.16
Cogeneration in the industrial   Increase energy efficiency                                      7.80
sector
Measures in the transportation sector
a.) Inter-urban corridors
Good driving practices           Reduce fuel consumption                                         2.62
Speed control                    Reduce fuel consumption                                         8.87
Mode shift (from truck to rail), Reduce fuel consumption                                       11.73 (1)

for the transfer of products
b.) Urban corridors  (2)

Good driving practices           Reduce fuel consumption                                        15.27
Establish schedules for          Reduce fuel consumption                                         9.28
commercial vehicles (freight
transport)
New technologies                 Reduce fuel consumption                                         0.27
Modal shift                      Reduce fuel consumption                                         0.72
Renewable energy
Solar energy                     Residential, Industrial, and commercial sectors                 4.10
Biogas                           Residential and commercial sectors                              7.65
Geothermal                       Agricultural, Industrial, generation, and commercial            1.79
                                 sectors
Wind energy                      Generation sector                                              11.41
Mini-hydro                       Generation sector                                               1.74
Biomass                          Generation sector                                               2.48
Biodiesel                        Transportation sector                                          14.00


                                                          26

                            Table A2-1. Mitigation options and its estimated impact
                                                                                              Estimated reduction

             Sector                                Impact on resources                          GHG emissions,
                                                                                                 in million tons
                                                                                                   of CO2-eq
Carbon sequestration
Mesopotamia region                Increase forest cover                                               19.65
Buenos Aires region               Increase forest cover                                               12.46
Andean Patagonia                  Increase forest cover                                                6.00
Irrigated forest plantations      Increase forest cover                                                1.60
Western Parana                    Increase forest cover                                                2.16
Other                             Increase forest cover                                                1.00
Notes:
(1)This option has a very high marginal mitigation cost, and is therefore not recommended as a short run solution.
(2)Marginal mitigation costs vary by region. While some options may be attractive in one region, they may not be in
another. Chapter VII of the SNC has detail on the costs by region.
(3)Total GHG emissions eliminated for the period 2005-2015




d.       Capacity building and public awareness

The objective of this component was to encourage the development of education plans and outreach
programs centered on the issue of climate change. The program consisted of two major subcomponents, (i)
Training program for government officials and interested individuals, and (ii) Promotional campaign to
disseminate information on climate change, and to promote the activities of the training program. A total of
four seminars were carried out where individuals from all sectors of society (NGOs, academia, government,
international organizations) were invited to participate. Additionally, the results of all the work done by this
project was made publicly available on the Secretariat of Industry's website.
(http://www.ambiente.gov.ar/default.asp?IdArticulo=1124) and the Fundación Bariloche website
(http://www.fundacionbariloche.org.ar/2cn.htm).


e.       Drafting of the Second National Communication to the UNFCCC.

This component addressed the actual generation of the Second National Communication to the UNFCCC.
The document compiles results from the various project subcomponents and other publicly available
information, such as national statistics on population, social and cultural characteristics, economic
indicators, and institutional settings.




                                                          27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The economic loss in Argentina associated to climate change is difficult to determine, due to the lack of
data and the complex linkages among sectors. Costs could be structured into two categories: (i)
Productivity losses derived from climate changes. Weather changes affect temperature and hydrologic
balance, and have influence in floods and economic activities such as agriculture and tourism. Argentina is
one of the 14 countries of the world most affected by flooding events, reaching economic losses greater
than 1.1% of GDP. Impacts on agricultural production derived from climate change are difficult to
ascertain, as production practices may help exacerbate or diminish climate impact; soil salinization, and
erosion are linked to poor irrigation and land management practices. (ii) Economic costs associated with
cleaner production of energy, and energy use, resulting from emission standards and regulation. High
upfront costs, and market and regulation barriers prevent investments in energy saving activities. Clean
transport technologies involve higher costs not necessarily recoverable in the short term.

While the greater frequency of storms causes flooding and damages to physical assets, it can also deliver
more freshwater as the storms move inland to replenish reservoirs including those for hydropower and
recharge groundwater.

This is a GEF Enabling Activity, thus a formal economic analysis for investment was not done neither at
appraisal nor at completion.




                                                     28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

            Names                           Title                   Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Walter Vergara                      Lead Chemical Engineer         LCSEN           TTL
Antonio Leonardo Blasco         Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM       FM Specialist
Jose Ramon Gomez Guerrero               E T Consultant             LCSEN
Hernan M. Gonzalez Figueroa               Consultant               LCSEN
Ana Maria Grofsmacht                 Procurement Analyst           LCSPT       Procurement
Andres Mac Gaul                      Sr Procurement Spec.          LCSPT       Procurement
Keiko Ashida                          Operations Analyst           LCSEN     Operational Issues



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle
                                          No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                       69.35
  FY04                                                                       18.98
  FY05                                                                         0.00
  FY06                                                                         0.00
  FY07                                                                         0.00
                              Total:                                         88.33
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                         0.00
  FY04                                                                         1.83
  FY05                                                                       28.83
  FY06                                                                       19.11
  FY07                                                                         3.55
                              Total:                                         53.32




                                              29

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)


Not Applicable.




                                      30

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not Applicable.




                                       31

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Summary in English

STEERING COMMITTEE (SC): Positive: Composed by representative areas of the government for the
project. Members had great curricula and relevant expertise and prestige. The experience of the members of
the SNC allowed for sound studies and evaluations of the studies. The establishment a Directive Board for
the SC allowed for a more agile management. Negative: The role of the SC in the beginning of the project
(evaluation of TOR, long lists, criteria for the selection of consultant, evaluation of short lists) caused
several delays in the execution of the project. Its participation in the former areas should be limited in time
and explicitly included in the project schedule. It is necessary to include the possibility of an "un-tying"
vote in the rules of the SC. Delays were also repeated at the end of the project as SC had to review and
approve final reports.

PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT: Positive: Excellent operational group dynamic during the first
stage of implementation, with direct links to FB, the SC, the World Bank, and the consultants. This allowed
the project to develop quickly and recover time lost by the SC. Negative: Changes in the composition of the
PIU due to differences in opinion between the coordinator and some members of the SC, and not
necessarily due to issues related to the project. The new project Coordinator shared this function with other
responsibilities in and out of the country. The PIU was initially an academic body of five members plus an
assistant, and ended up having only two members in the final stages of the project. One of the two
remaining members was the only one of the active members in the project, but did not participate in any
meeting relative to the project even though he was the only one knowing the history of the project. The
negative aspect was exacerbated by the fact that his wages were reduced after contracts expired and were
renewed. Wages were very low from the beginning of the project due to reasons related to the project and
because the World Bank did not want to include a clause in the contracts allowing the contracts to be
adjusted over time, even though the members worked for more than 3 years. Once the project concluded,
this member continues actively participating in issues related to the project, even though he does not have a
contract, including the drafting of the text included in this annex.

Evaluation teams: Selected by the SC, some of them, mainly for the evaluation of final reports should have
been compensated for their services. This was not originally planned in the project. Evaluators should be
compensated in order to have access to better technical individuals.

Project Schedule: Some activities that take place alter the drafting of the final report need to be included in
the schedule. This includes a final session of the SC finalizing the duties of the PIU, the FB, and the SC. It
also includes determining who are the recipients and custodians of the final project documents, as well as
who is in charge of releasing the final report. Contracts of the PIU should last until the final reports has
been released to the public.

Moving of the PIU. Changing the location of the PIU is not good for the project, especially during project
execution. It can only bring delays, administrative problems, and possible loss of documentation.

World Bank. The permanent and flexible contact with World Bank authorities is a very positive aspect of
the experience. This contact allowed the team to carry out those activities and details not originally
included. It also allowed the group to have peace of mind knowing that the project is operational and that
all parts are in agreement in relation to having all necessary documentation to handle all contracts. This
includes the entire process from the design of TORs to the delivery of the final reports. In a couple
opportunities there were some delays from the World Bank regarding requests for no objections. This work
approach gives the team confidence and security in the handling of complex issues related to the project.


                                                        32

In general:
Experience acquired during the design of the Second National Communication is very important and
necessary in the planning for the Third National Communication. It is of utmost importance to capitalize on
the formats and contents obtained during the SNC given the increasing importance of the climate change
topic, and the necessary continuation in project management.

Comments in Spanish

COMENTARIOS SOBRE LA EJECUCION DE LA 2daCNCC.

COMITÉ DE CONDUCCION: Positivo: Integra de modo transversal a las áreas de gobierno
representativas para el proyecto. Participan miembros individuales de gran trayectoria profesional y con
prestigio relevante. Esto permitió mayor solidez en los estudios y evaluaciones a realizar. La constitución
de una Mesa Directiva, le dio mayor agilidad a la gestión. Negativo: Su intervención al principio del
proyecto (evaluación de TDR, listas largas, criterios para la selección de consultores, evaluación de listas
cortas) produjeron muchos atrasos en los cronogramas del proyecto. Su participación debería estar para
estos tópicos pautada en sus tiempos y estos estar incluidos específicamente en los cronogramas del
proyecto. Es necesario contemplar voto desempate dentro del reglamento del Comité de Conducción. Los
atrasos se repitieron al final del proyecto con la necesaria participación en el estudio y aprobación de los
Informes Finales.

UNIDAD DE IMPLEMENTACION DEL PROYECTO: Positivo: Excelente dinámica operativa durante la
primera etapa de gestión de la UIP, con vínculos directos tanto con la FB como con el CC y el WB y los
contratistas. Esto permitió corregir en gran medida los atrasos producidos en el CC. Negativa: Cambios en
su conformación por discrepancias con algunos miembros del CC y no por temas propios del proyecto en sí.
El nuevo Coordinador General compartía esta función con otras responsabilidades dentro y fuera del país.
La UIP de ser un cuerpo colegiado de cinco miembros más un auxiliar pasó a tener dos miembros y solo
uno de ellos con presencia y actividad permanente sin participar más en ninguna reunión relativa al
proyecto pero siendo el único con conocimientos específicos de toda su gestión. Este aspecto fue agravado
por reducirse los montos de los honorarios en lugar de su incremento como hubiera sido lo normal al
vencimiento de los primeros contratos y oportunamente se solicitara. Los valores contractuales estuvieron
desactualizados desde origen por razones propias de la economía del país y negativa del WB de establecer
alguna cláusula de ajuste, incluso teniendo en cuenta el tiempo de contratación de más de tres años.
Concluido el proyecto se continúa en actividad, sin vínculo contractual, incluso para la ejecución del texto
aquí trascripto.

Cuerpo de evaluadores: Seleccionado por el CC, algunos de ellos, fundamentalmente para las evaluaciones
de los informes finales han debido ser remunerados por sus servicios, esto no estaba contemplado
originalmente en el proyecto y es necesario que así se haga para acceder más libremente a los mejores
evaluadores que sea factible disponer.

Cronograma del Proyecto: Deben tenerse en cuenta los tiempos posteriores a la redacción del trabajo final,
una vez entregado oficialmente el documento a la UNFCCC, debería realizarse una última sesión del CC
cesando funciones a la UIP, a la FB y a sí misma y dejando en claro quienes son los receptarios y custodios
de los documentos del proyecto y encargados de la difusión de su informe final. Hasta ese momento
deberían tener vigencia los contratos de la UIP,

Mudanza de la UIP. No es positivo producir este tipo de cambios durante la ejecución de un proyecto,
siempre resultará un trastorno administrativo y generar atrasos y posibles extravíos de documentos.

Banco Mundial. Se considera muy positivo el permanente y flexible contacto con las autoridades del WB,
esto ha permitido llevar a adelante todas aquellas actividades y detalles no contemplados previamente, tener

                                                       33

la tranquilidad de estar operativa y documentalmente de acuerdo en relación a toda la documentación
requerida para el manejo de múltiples contratos, desde la confección de los TDR hasta la entrega de los
Informes Finales. En solo un par de oportunidades hubo un pequeño atraso de gestión en el trámite de No
Objeción requerido. Este modo de trabajo genera confianza y seguridad en el manejo de temas complejos
como este proyecto.

En general:

Se consideran de gran importancia las experiencias adquiridas durante la confección de la 2da CNCC y su
necesaria aplicación para la programación de la 3raCNCC es fundamental para capitalizar formas y
contenidos y dada la creciente importancia de la temática, la necesaria continuidad a la gestión de los
proyectos.




                                                    34

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                       35

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

· Second National Communication of the Government of Argentina to the UNFCCC.
· Estimación de escenarios regionales de cambio climatico mediante el uso de modelos climaticos
  regionales, October 2005, Fundación Bariloche
· Estudio Estrategico Nacional Para Hacer Uso de los Mecanismos Flexibles del Protocolo de Kioto,
  December 2002
· Fijacion de Carbono en Plantaciones Foresales ­ Resultados, December 2002
· Informes Finales B8-Plan Nacional de Adaptación y B2 Vulnerabilidad Pampa Bonaerense, January
  2007
· Informe final C5 Metano Enterico, December, 2006
· Informe Final Componentes B4 Vulnerabilidad de los recursos hídricos en el Litoral-Mesopotamia C4
  Mitigación del cambio climático mediante la captura de carbono, November 2006
· Informes Finales Mitigaciòn C1 y C2, July 2006
· Informe final subcomponente B6 Impacto Socioeconomico del CC, July 2006
· Informe final subcomponentes B1- Vulnerabilidad de la Zona Costera y B5- Vulnerabilidad de la
  Patagonia, July 2006
· Informe final B3 - Vulnerabilidad produccion agricola Pampa humeda, June 2006
· Informe final componente D2 - Programa de entrenamiento, June 2006
· Informe tecnico Subcomponente D2- Campaña Inf. Sociedad Civil, April 2006
· Infomes Finales Inventarios (A) y Modelos (B9), January 2006
· Informe final componente C4 Captura de Carbono, August 2005
· Informe final componente C3 Energía Renovables, August 2005
· Informe final componente C2 Efic Energ Transporte, July 2005
· Informe final componente C1 Eficiencia Energetica, July 2005
· Informe final componente vulnerabilidad sector energetico B7, July 2005




                                                 36

Annex 10. Summary of Adaptation Strategy

Argentina is a large country with great variety of geographical environments and diverse climates
where human activities have different degree of dependence of climate and where climatic
adaptation is also diverse and complex. This, added to the gradual nature of the Climate Change,
to its uncertainties and to the fact that its impacts in the next years will not be as huge as to
considerably hurt the economic development, makes difficult the adoption of a program only
centred on the adaptation to Climatic Change. However, this does not imply that the climatic
changes should not been considered in the public politics of socioeconomic sectors or regions, in
which adaptation to future climatic changes is necessary to avoid considerable damages or for
taking advantage of possible opportunities. Therefore, the guideline features of a public adaptation
policy of to Climate Change developed in this Report were drawn on the basis of sectorial and/or
regional analysis.

The conceptual framework and the methodological approach adopted for the development of the
draft National Adaptation Strategy contain central concepts of the Adaptation Policy Framework
like the mechanisms of interactive participation with relevant stakeholders and the consideration,
not only of adaptation to future climate, but also to present climate variability. However, a
distinctive conceptual aspect of this study is the consideration of the adaptation to climatic
changes that already occurred. This was necessary because in southern South America have been
climate trends that already had important impacts, aggravating, in certain cases, the vulnerability
to climate extremes. In turn, these trends have stimulated important answers in the form of
autonomous adaptation that should be improved and eventually corrected.

The selection of the systems, object of a more detailed analysis, took in consideration a set of
criteria, which respond to the conceptual framework and to the purpose of the Report. These
systems are sensitive to potential climate changes, and will require important adaptation to them.
Likewise, they incorporate the bond between adaptation and development policies. The four
systems that were analyzed with greater detail are agriculture, urban settlements, water resources
and energy. Other systems were treated with less detail: the maritime and the Plata River coasts
vulnerability to sea level rise; the problems, needs and opportunities of the transport system
arising from present and future climatic trends; the vulnerability of the oasis of the Andes
mountain foots in Cuyo; the vulnerability of the Patagonia and the impacts in tourism and health
as well as the need to undertake studies of the vulnerability of the ecological systems.

In all the analyses, the year 2040 has been taken as time horizon to consider the vulnerabilities as
well as the measures and policies of adaptation. This horizon is required in certain activities, like
forestry, the territory planning and infrastructure works in general. It is unreasonably to propose
measures to exclusively attend changes beyond that horizon; not only because of the lack of strong
contemporary motivations, but because the related technological and economic national and
international changes are of very difficult prediction. Although, the analysis period extends to the
year 2040, it begins at present time, including adaptation measures to the climate variability and to
the current climate trends.

As a first step, it was made the revision of vulnerability to climate change studies of the Second
National Communication to the UNFCCC and of other Projects. The more relevant of these
Projects, ordered by time, were:


                                                    37

(1) the First National Communication to the UNFCCC, in those sectors not covered by the
Second;
(2) the AIACC Projects LA 26 (UBA), LA 27(INTA) and LA 29 (UNRC);
(3) the Strategic Project on Floods of the UBA;
(4) the Regional Environmental Agenda/Improvement of the Governability for Sustainable
Development. PNUD ARG/03/001, T. Di Tella Foundation and SAyDS;
(5) the IAI SG II 057 Project on Climatic Change in the Plata Basin;
(6) the Vulnerability Studies of the Second National Communication;
(7) the Climate Scenarios Project developed by the T. Di Tella Foundation for the SAyDS.

Those studies identified the most important vulnerabilities to future climate change and current
climate variability and trends as well as their geographical distribution. These vulnerabilities are
discussed for each sector together with measures of adaptation, institutional aspects and, in some
cases, associated costs.

The most important of these vulnerabilities (or in some cases, opportunities) due to the climatic
and hydrologic changes of the last decades are:
a) Increase of the mean annual precipitation in almost every Argentina and especially in the
Northeast and in the marginal western zone of the traditional humid region.
b) Increase of the extreme precipitation frequency in most of the east and centre of the country.
c) Increase of temperature in the Andean region of Cuyo and Patagonia with glacier retreats.
d) Increase of the river streamflows and floods in all the country except in San Juan, Mendoza,
Comahue and north of the Patagonia.
e) Decrease of discharges in the rivers of Andean origin in San Juan, Mendoza and Comahue.


Vulnerabilities projected for the period 2020/2040 are:
f) Streamflow reduction in the Plata Basin rivers because of surface and air warming.
g) The increase of the water stress in all the north and part of the west of the country due to the
same cause.
h) Potential crisis of the water in Mendoza, San Juan and Comahue.
i) Maintenance of the high frequency of intense precipitation and floods in the zones currently
affected.
j) Furtherance of the glacier retreats.
k) Vulnerability of some locations on the maritime seaboard and on the coast of the Plata River by
the sea level rise.

The four sectors analyzed with more detail include an overview of the system, its recent evolution,
the climate influence and, when they had been important, how climate trends affected the
development of the sector. In addition, it is included a brief outlook of future developments of the
sector to assess its vulnerability according to the projected changes in the time horizon. As a
consequence, a set of measures and policies of adaptation were proposed for each sector
discerning those necessary to attend present variability and climate trends from those oriented to
future changes. However, many measures serve both purposes as they attend present trends of
climate that would be accentuated in the future. Due to the uncertainties, still important, of
climate projections, not regret options adaptation measures have been prioritized since them will
be convenient, even without considering Climate Change. The proposed measures are numerous


                                                   38

and various, covering an extensive spectrum of sub-sectors, regions and actors that cannot be
enumerated in this Executive Summary.

For the analysis of the adaptation policies, the institutional and regulatory framework in force was
analyzed. The advance of science, reducing uncertainties on future climate, together with the
technological and socioeconomic evolution, requires a dynamic adaptation to Climate Change
policy. This may imply modifications of the impacts of the Climatic Change or of the response
capacity of sector or regions. Therefore, it is required of a continuous revision and elaboration of
the measures of adaptation being undertaken. In view of this circumstance, it is proposed that the
adaptation to Climatic Change policies be structured in a Program with continuity in time. This
continuity requires that stakeholders have an adequate participation in the planning of the
strategies and measures of adaptation.

Argentina faces serious social problems that require priority and rapid economic growth. In this
context, a realistic adaptation to Climate Change policy cannot be a main reason for planning, but
should respond and contribute to the regional and national strategies of development. Because of
it, the distinctive feature of the Program should be its insertion in the mainstream of sectoral
and/or regional policies as one of many variables, although in some cases, a relevant one.

Due to the strong climate trends of the last decades in Argentina, the adaptation policies should
consider the autonomous adaptation processes to help and to correct them when necessary. Due to
the weaknesses of the environmental monitoring system, it is proposed to reinforce it to watch the
regional climate evolution, as well as to increase the research on Climate Change impacts. It is
emphasized the need for new research to achieve, in not very long time, a substantial reduction of
the regional climate scenarios uncertainties.

As a summary of the proposals, this document ends with the features of a National Program of
Adaptation al Climatic Change that proposes an institutional structure centralized for coordination
in a National Commission of Climatic Change (CNCC), but with planning and implementation
strongly based on the institutions that attend the sectors and regions concerned by the Climatic
Change. Exception to this feature would be some subprograms as those of information and
awareness-raising that would be executed directly by the CNCC. In the majority of the
subprograms, the CNCC's role would be that of support with information and training, the
facilitation of funding identification and the monitoring and evaluation. Finally the funding
alternatives, both national and international sources are discussed




                                                   39

Annex 11. Map




                 40

