Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USF, ONLY
Z,A/ RI3 -Cr
Report No. P-4742-GA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$50 MILLION
TO THE
GABONESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
March 21, 1988
Tbis document has a resricted dis_rbui  and may be used by recipits oiy In MC pe&finauco of
tbe  omcidal dulies Its contents may not odhewie be disdosed woit   Wold Bank shoWddBaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit                       CFAFranc (CFAF) 1/
US$ 1.00                            CFAF 275
CFAF 1 million            -         US$ 3636
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter 0m)              -          3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         -          0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)            0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric toin (t)        G          2,205 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)           D          2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AfDB           African Development Bank
AGROGABON      State Enterprise for production. of vegetable oils
and cattle
AIR GABON      The State Airline
BEAC           Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Coop4ration Economique (France)
CPAF           Franc de la Communaute Financibre Africaine
EDF            European Development Fund
aEVEGAB        State Enterprise for Rubber Production
IMF            International Monetary Fund
OCTRA          Office des Chemins de Fer Trans-Gabonnais
OPT            Office des Postes et de T6l6communications
oZI            Operations Zonales Integrees
PEs            PublicIParapublic enterprises
SAL            Structural Adjustment Lending
SEEG           Societd de l'Energie et de L'Eau du Gabon
SMEs           Small and Medium Enterprises
SMIG           Salaire Minimum Interprofessionnel Garanti
SNBG           Soci4td Nationale de Bois du Gabon
SNTH           Soci4t4 Nationale de Tourisme et d'H6tellerie
SUSUHO         Soci6td Sucribre du Haut Ogoua
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UDEAC          Union Douanibre des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
1/        The CFA franc (CFAF) is tied to the French franc (FF)
in the ratio of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French franc is currently
floating.



FOR OMCIAL U ONLY
THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrowers           The Gabonese Republic
Loan Amounts        US$50 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable over 13 years, including 4 years of grace
at the standard variable rate
Cofinancings        African Development Banks U/A 36 million (US$50
million equivalent)
Program
DescriDtion:        The proposed loan would assist Gabon to overcome
the economic and financial crisis brought about by the
1986 collapse of petroleum prices. Specifically, the
loan would support the consolidation of a recently
initiated financial stabilization program, help lay the
foundations for restructuring the economy and promote
the growth and competitiveness of the nonoil sectors.
The first phase of the adjustment program for 1988
focuses ons (a) reinforcing public sector resource
management by tightening the investment budget,
establishing priorities for public investments,
increasing the share of productive activities in public
investments, reducing the civil service wage bill,
restructuring public debt, and establishing a financial
reserve fund for the benefit of future generations; (b)
public enterprise reform by: rationalizing the sector
through liquidation/ privatizationlrehabilitation,
instilling financial discipline in public enterprises,
and regulating the relationship between the State and
public enterprises5 (c) incentive policies to promote
private sector activity, especially small and medium
enterprises through: liberalizing trade, removing price
controls, restructuring fiscal and investment
incentives, and removing obstacles to export expansion;
and (d) the reformulation of ;ectoral policies to
promote agriculture, forestry, and related productive
activities on an environmentally sound basis.
Program Benefits:   "he proposed operation is essential to reestablish
basic economic equilibria, shift incentives towards the
tradeable sectors and thereby provide a sound basis for
diversified economic growth. The operation will lead
to a more efficient use of public resources, stimulate
the nonoil productive sectors, and achieve a more
appropriate balance between the public and private
This document ha a 8sutd ddsbutlon may be used by nrpients oy   thi perfonnu]
of thei ofAckldutis Its contents my not othewis be diclosed wihout Wodrd Bank .."2on



(ii)
sectors. The particular benefits from public
enterprise adjustment measures are the lessening of the
financial burden on the Government, the increased
transparency of the financial relations between the
Statr and public enterprises, and the rationalization
of public resource allocation to public enterprises.
Program Risks:      The extent and depth of the required reforms,
following ysars of abundant resources, which inflated
costs and fed the expansion in non-productive
activities led by the public sector, will necessitate a
fundamental reorientation of policies, attitudes, and
habits. The greatest res:9tance to reform comes from
the country's bureaucratic elite, especially in public
enterprises, who are directly and adversely affected by
the cuts in public salaries, the liquidation of
enterprises, or are threatened by the audits of
parastatal organizations. A strong recovery in oil
prices might pose another threat to the full and prompt
implementation of the program by reducing the financial
constraints and thereby lessening the sense of
political urgency to carry out the measures needed to
tackle the basic structural weaknesses. Several
elements in the adjustment program, however, limit
these risks. First, the country has had a stable
Governmant over the last 20 years, one which has
already weathered a crisis that required severe
austerity measures (1977-78). Second, the Government
has recently demonstrated determination to take
difficult and unpopular decisions such as substantial
cuts of the salaries in civil service and public
enterprises, liquidating public enterprises, and
subjecting all major public enterprises to diagnostic
audits. Third, the Government has built a consensus
for reform which is creating its own momentum for
further reforms.
Istimated
Disbursement:       The loan would be disbursed in two tranches, the
first of US$20 million equivalent upon effectiveness
and the second of US$30 million after a performance
review to be held about six months after effectiveness.
Haps                IBRD 14994 R



(iii)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I - THE ECONOMY ................................. 1
A.   The Macroeconomic Context .................................. l
Background ............................................ I
The Current Crisls ................................. 2
B.   Structural Issues                  . ...................... 3
Inefficient Public Resource Management    ....... ...... 3
Limited Production Base ..................................... . 4
Urban Bias of Economic ActivLty ................... ....  o  5
High Wage-Price Structures. ... ..........          ........... . S.5
Limited Human Resource Base. .........            .     ......... ....   6
Inefficient Public Enterprises   .         ..................... 7
Weak Private Initiatives and Incentives .................... 7
C.   Government Response    ...         .. ............................ 8
D.   Assessment and Prospects. ......    . ................... . . .  .10
PART II -THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ........................... ll
A.   Objectives and Approach ....          .. .......... ........   .. .... 11
B.   The First Phase of the Adjustment Program ................... 12
Public Sector Resource )hnagement ....et................... 12
Public Enterprise Reform ....................... ..     ......... 15
Incentive Policies and Promotion of PME's ................. 18
Key Sectoral Policies .....         ................................ 21
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN ..................... .. ........ . ........ 25
A.   Loan History ................................................... 25
B.   Support of Policy Reform. .................................... 25
C.   Effects of Adjustment ............................................. . 25
D.   Benefits and Risks        ............ ........................... 30
E.   Social Impacts ............. ........................* ....... 31
P.   Financing .............. *.*  .....too...............           ........ 32
G.   Disbursement, Administration and Procurement....*............3
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY    ................... 35
PART V  -COLLABORATION WITH DM AND OTHER DONORS ..................... 37
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION...........                 ........ ....... oo..*.. . 37
ANNEMXS
ANNEX I   -    ECONOMIC INDICATORS
ANNEX II  -    STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GABON
ANNEX III -    SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
ANNEX IV  -    DECLARATION OF DEVMLOPMENT STRATEGY
ANNEX V   -    SAL POLICY MATRIX
ANNEX VI  -    MACROECONOMIC PROJECTIONS



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE GABONESE
REPUBLIC FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount of US$50 million equivalent to the Gabonese Republic to
support the Government's Structural Adjustment Program. Interest on the
loan would be at the standard variable rate. The loan would be amortized
over 13 years including 4 years of grace. The program is supported by the
African Development Bank, which will provide US$50 million equivalent of
cofinancing.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. The Macroeconomic Context
Back&round
2.        Gabon is a country of about one million people that is in the
midst of a major econr '.c and financial crisis, despite a per capita GNP of
US$2,700 in 1985, thez the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is a case of
an oil-producing econoay that engaged in excessive public spending and
short-term borrowing during a period of high oil prices. With debt service
cemmitments now coming due, the collapse in oil prices has uncovered many
structural weaknesses and given rise to critical financial difficulties.
3.        Gabon's prosperity reflects the country's resoi.rce position,
which includes mple arable land, adequate rainfall, large unexploited
forestry resources, significant mineral deposits (uranium, manganese, and
iron ore), and oil. Oil production first began in 1957 and assumed
increasing importance in GDP over time. By 1974, after the first hike in
oil prices, Gabon became an oil economy with oil revenues dominating
exports and the government budget, accounting for 75 percent of exports and
50 percent of government revenues. Since that year, the pace of economic
activity has been determined by international oil prices. Just as economic
activity accelerated following the two major oil price increases of the
19708, it has considerably diminished following *he oil price collapse of
1986. Specifically, growth of GDP accelerated from an average of less than
3 percent per annum during 1970-72 to an average 19 percent during 1974-76.
After the crisis of 1977-79, during which GDP declined by about 33 percent,
GDP resumed its growth following the second major oil price increase and
averaged 8 percent per annum during 1980-82, and 4 percent per annum during
1983-85. The collapse of oil prices in 1986 reduced GDP by about 6 percent
in that year and has led to further decline of about 13 percent in 1987.
4.        In spite of continuously increasing oil revenues, government
expenditures have consistently exceeded total revenues (oil and non-oil)
since the early 1970s. This resulted in budget deficits which were
fimnaced mostly from external sources. External public debt expanded
rapidly from US$71 million in 1970 to reach a peak of US$1556 million in



1980. It subsequently declined to US$1044 million in 1985, mostly
reflecting the strengthening of the US dollar against the French franc in
which most of Gabon's debt is denominated. In local currency the external
public debt declined from CFAF 672 billion in 1980 to CFAF 469 billion in
1985. Because of its short maturity structure, this large level of debt
represents an extremely heavy burden to Gabon's economy. In 1985, 80
percent of the outstanding debt was due within five years. This continues
to be the case. Debt service on public and publicly-guaranteed debt as a
percentage of exports fell from an annual average of 21 percent during
1979-81 to 13 percent in 1985: it rose, however, to 26 percent in 1986 and
to 28 percent in 1987, requiring rescheduling by the Paris and London
Clubs. At end-1986, 81 percent of external public debt was owed to
bilateral creditors, 10 percent to covmercial banks and 9 percent to
multilateral organizations.
The Current Crisis
5.        The current crisis has been provoked by a precipitous fall in
government oil revenues from about CPAP 400 billion in 1984 and 1985 to
CPAP 285 billion in 1986 and CPAP 70 billion in 1987. Not anticipating the
full extent of the fall in oil revenues. and faced with expenditure
couuitments carried forward from the preceding year, the Government failed
to slow down its spending in 1986. The government deficit jumped from 4-5
percent of GDP in 1984-85 to 15 percent of GDP in 1986. In the process,
the Government also accumulated significant arrears to domestic suppliers.
Although total expenditures have been reduced by 48 percent in 1987, the
Government deficit still represents 8 percent of GDP.
6.        The collapse in oil revenues has had grave implications for the
rest of the economy as well. The reduction of public expenditures,
especially investment, has most severely affected construction, covmerce
and services which were fueled during the boom years with oil-related
expenditures. This general slow-down has created secondary repercussions
on the Government's budget by reducing non-oil revenues from a peak of CIAF
233 billion in 1985 to CPF? 195 billion in 1987. The emerging liquidity
crisis spilled over to the damestic banking system which has been drained
by a simultaneous increase in credit to the Government and by a withdrawal
of reserves to finance a sharply increased balance of payments deficit. In
contrast to a positive current account balance through 1984, the current
account registered a deficit equivalent to 31 percent of GDP in 1986 nd an
estimated 15 percent of GDP in 1987. International reserves have been
depleted, falling from US$225 million in 1984 to only an estimated US$23
million at the end of 1987. Total credit in the economy has contracted by
16 percent over the past two years, leading to a slowdown of general
business activity and a complicated web of cross-indebtedness throughout
the economy, in particular between the Government and the public enterprise
sector.
7.        The collapse of oil prices - and the associated decline in oil
revenues - was mitigated by the payment mechanism for petroleum related
income taxes which are paid with a one-year lag. For 1986 as a whole,



contractual oil prices for Gabon (as distinct from market prices) fell by
55 percent to about US$13 per barrel, while oil revenues fell by only 33
percent. This may have given the authorities a false signal towards the
end of 1986 that the crisis was only transitory. However, the unfolding
reality of 1987 convinced the Government of the need to make some
fundamental adjustments.
B. Structural Issues
8.        During the period of abundant fir ncial resources (1979-85), the
Government was preoccupied with expansion of investments and distribution
of the oil wealth. Many structural weaknesses developed, while others were
accentuated during that period, and the Government paid little or no
attention to their resolution. The suddenness and magnitude of the
financial crisis (1986-87) not only uncovered the underlying structural
weaknesses, but also tended to magnify them. The Government's perception
was that it was thus suddenly faced with a host of problems, when in
reality the problems were always there, but disguised by financial
abundance. These problems include inefficient public resource management,
limited production base, urban bias of economic activity, high wage-price
structures constraining diversification possibilities, a limited human
resource base, a large and inefficient public enterprise sector, and weak
private initiatives and incentives.
Inefficient Public Resource Management
9.        During the two previous oil booms, the Government directly
utilized the resultant oil rents to finance an ambitious public expenditure
program. That program played a dual rolet as an engine of growth and as a
mechanism of distributing oil rents to the population. In principle, there
was enough oil wealth to finance a steadily expanding program of public
expenditures for consumption and investment purposes, and at the same time
build a reserve fund that could have substantially mitigated the effects of
the current crisis. If some discipline had been applied toc public
expenditures, Gabon's finances would have evolved along entirely different
lines.
10.       The allocation of public investment resources was biased towards
major infrastructure and construction projects of dubious economic merit,
while directly productive investments - especially agriculture - suffereds
about 56 percent of planned investments during the period 1980-84 were
allocated to infrastructure and construction, 20 percent to administrative
investments (mostly new government buildings), but only 8 percent to
directly productive activities. This heavy bias resulted from the in-
adequacy of existing infrastructure -- a main constraint to the development
of productive sectors, particularly agricultrre. While pursuing the
objectives of nation-building and modernization, investments unfortunately
were often ill-conceived, poorly designed and overly expensive, making
their economic justification questionable. The most important of these was
the 600 km Trans-Gabon railway connecting Libreville and Franceville, built



- 4 -
at a cost of more than US$2 billion, making the cost per kilometer more
than five times the comparable international standard cost. Similar
prestige projects were built with little justifications airports,
administrative buildings, schools and hospitals. Such projects now
constitute a legacy of misdirected investments, generating enormous
recurrent costs and losses.
11.       The structure of current expenditures also reflected the relative
abundance of Gabon's public finances. Despite the fact that debt service
rose quickly from one quarter of current expenditures in the early 1970's
to slightly over one-half during 1977-83, the Government undertook a rapid
expansion in civil service employment (8 percent per annum) during 1974-85,
a steady increase in real wages during the same period (2-3 percent per
annum), and a real increase in expenditures on goods and services of about
10 percent per annum. By 1984, as a result, expenditures on goods and
services had exceeded the already inflated expenditures on wages and
salaries (average remuneration, US$7,600 per person). By contrast, in most
other African countries expenditures on goods and services are only a
fraction of the civil service wage bill, often less than one-half.
Finally, subsidies and transfers, which represented 6-10 percent of current
expenditures during 1977-83, grew rapidly in real terms mostly to support
state owned enterprises: they also financed scholarships abroad and
subsidized some consumer products such as sugar, edible oil and bread.
Limited Production Base
12.       Despite its favorable resource position, Gabon's production base
is still rather narrow. Prior to the oil era, the economy was primarily
dependent on the exports of forestry and mining products. In the early
19608, for example, while forestry and mining represented respectively 10
and 20 percent of GDP, they represented 39 and 58 percent of exports.
Mineral exports consisted of manganese (34 percent), petroleum (15
percent), uranium (8 percent), and gold (1 percent). By 1975, oil
accounted for 40 percent of GDP and 75 percent of exports. Forestry and
non-oil minerals - though increasing in absolute value - assumed
significantly reduced shares in GDP and exports by comparison with the
1960s. Most comercially traded products were produced in enclaves that
had little or no relation with the rest of the domestic economy and, nearly
thirty years after independence, are still being produced in enclaves.
13.       The financial prosperity that accompanied the oil boom enabled
Gabon to modernize its cities (Libreville, Port Gentil and Franceville) and
expand its infrastructure, but was not used to develop agriculture or
industry sufficiently to diversify the economic base. Vhile construction
and trading activities expanded briskly, they were for the most part
dependent on oil-related financial flows.  As long as such flows were
continuing, the non-oil economy could grow uninterrupted - as in fact it
did during 1980-85 with an average annual rate of 5 percent. The collapse
of oil revenues in 1986-87 interrupted the financial flows to the non-oil
economy, thus exposing both the narrowness of the country's production



- 5 -
base, and the vulnerability of the overall economy to the international oil
market.
Urban Dias of Economic Activity
14.       Gabon is a sparsely populated country.  While its area is
accurately known (267,000 km2), the size of its populat.on remains at best
a rough estimate of about one million. The overall population density is
less than four persons per square kilometer. Given that about one-half of
the population lives in three urban centers, population density In rural
areas does not exceed one person per square kilometer. Consequently, the
development of social services, infrastructure, and amenities has been
concentrated in urban areas. The opening up of the country's interior
through transport development facilitated the rural-urban exodus which has
been a salient feature of the country over the last 30 years. The low
population density and rural exodus render costly efforts at agricultural
development - one of the major thrusts of the new reorientation of economic
policies.
High Wage-Price Structures
15.       Per capita GNP has experienced spectacular growth in Gabon since
its independence. From a modest level of $270 in 1960, per capita national
Income doubled by 1970 ($550). peaked at about $4000 in 1980, but partly
due to rapid inflows of migrant workers, declined to about $2700 in 1985.
The growth in per capita income was the direct result of oil prosperity
which expanded both government expenditures on employment of Gabonese and
the procurement of goods and services from local suppliers. Consequently,
the Gabonese labor market expanded for both nationals and expatriates
alike.
16.       Although wages in the early 1960s were no different from those in
neighboring African countries, wages rose rapidly since the early 1970s,
fueled by a strong demand for labor. Increases in salaries of civil
service and public enterprise employees were the trend setter for vages
outside the public sector. Regardless of the direction of causality
between wages and prices, the oil booms produced pronounced increases in
both. The legal minimum wage rate (SMIG) tripled during 1973-77 and
doubled during 1979-84. Compared to the consumer price index, the SMIG
increased in real terms by about five percent per annum during 1973-84.
17.       Such oil-related developments placed the average wage rate in
civil service at a level that was quite high even by comparison with other
neighboring oil producers. In 1985, for example, the average vage rate in
Gabon's civil service was more than three times that in Congo and
two-and-half times that in Cameroon. As a trend-setter, the high and
continuously rising civil service vages increased pressures on wages in the
private sector regardless of productivity, thus contributing to the
inflationary spiral. Another indicator of the inflationary wage trends in
Gabon is the wage drift: the faster rise of lower (unskilled) wages
compared with higher (skilled) wages resulting in reductions of the wage



- 6 -
differentials between s':illed and unskilled workers. During 1973-83 the
wage differential fell in forestry from 3.1 to 1.9, in construction and
public works from 3.3 to 1.4, and in comerce from 8.0 to 3.1. In all
cases the rise In the average wage rate of the unskilled was 10-15 percent
per annum, while that of the skilled was 4-8 percent per annum.
Limited Human Resource Base
18.       Gabon's human resource base is limited.  In 1960 the total
population was less than half a million and it included some 5,000
Europeans and 15,000-20,000 expatriate Africans. By 1985 the total popula-
tion had Increased to about one million and it included some 35,000
Europeans and about 170,000 expatriate Africans. Thus the gross expatriate
population ratio has grown over a 25-year period from about 5 percent to
about 20 percent.
19.       In 1960, the demographic structure and gross participation rates
indicate that the total labor force was about 90,000 persons, of which
about 5,500 were expatriates. Subsequent developments rendered Gabon a
magnet for expatriate workers, especially Africans, many of whom have come
without their dependents and began to make large remittances to their home
countries. In 1985, therefore, total labor force reached about 225,000, of
which about 62,000 were expatriates. The increased ratio of expstriates in
the labor force from 6 percent in 1960 to about 27 percent in 1985 thus
represents an indicator of both the quantitative and qualitative
limitations of Gabon's labor force.
20.       African expatriate workers have been participating in mode.n and
traditional sectors alike. By contrast, European workers have been con-
centrated in the modern sector. Relative to modern sector employment, the
ratio of Europeans has increased from about 4 percent in 1960 to about 9
percent in 1985. Participation of expatriate workers in specific
activities substantially exceeds this overall ratio. According to the 1981
survey of establishments in the informal sector, expatriates represent more
than 20 percent of employment in comnerce, 70 percent in crafts and
90 percent in transport. Furthermore, in practically all sectors requiring
specialized skills, expatriate wages uniformly exc',ed Gabonese wages. The
most striking differentials are in minerals extraction, beverages and
tobacco, textiles and leather, paper and printing, construction materials
and air transportation. According to the survey, expatriate wages in these
sectors were at least 3 times as much as Gabonese wages.
21.       The crisis has resulted in significant departures of expatriate
workers, especially Europeans, affecting the efficiency of enterprises and
exposing a tskill gap' in the economy at large. Equally significant, the
crisis has also highlighted the need for a long-term policy to develop
human resources and improve the skill base of nationals.



- 7-
Inefficient Public Enterprises
22.       The parapublic sector accounts for twenty percent of the value
added in the non-oil economy and consists of about fifty companies in
virtually all sectors includirg transport, manufacturing, power, forestry,
utilities, services, and marketing. The performance of these enterprises
has been generally poor due to high operating costs and unusually high
salaries, lax cost control, heavy financial losses, low productivity, gross
overstaffing, and inadequate management. The result is that public
enterprises have becomes (a) an increasing burden on state finances because
of rising subsidies; (b) a drawback to the competitiveness of the Gabonese
economy because of the high costs of the goods and services produced; and
(c) a contributor to wage inflation because of their exceptionally high
wages and their corresponding ratchet effect on wages and salaries in the
rest of the economy.
23.       These unfavorable consequences of public enterprises (PEs)
contrast sharply with the initial enthusiasm and hopes surrounding their
establishment as a means of developing the economy and as an expression of
a new national will. A policy of State largesse became k2stitutioiialized,
especially during the period of oil prosperity. Despita this unlimited
support, and notwithstanding the critical importance of PEs to the economy,
the Government has had virtually no data on the parastatal sector as a
whole as of end-1986. Unknown to the Government were essential data such
as financial and operating statements, personnel policies and salary
structures, cross-indebtednesss and arrears, investment programs and
financing modes. Whatever knowledge existed on the performance of PEs was
scattered among government ministries, never compiled or regularly followed
up. Neither were financial records regularly submitted nor external audits
carried out. This lack of discipline and/or will in the central Government
administration vis-&-vis the PEs has contributed to the poor performance of
the sector.
24.       As a res+tF of the severe budgetary constraints since 1986, the
Government reduced the flow of subsidies to PEs. However, the PEs did not
quickly adjust their past expenditure pattern and consequently built up
substantial arrears. thus contributing to the liquidity crisis and increas-
ing cross-indebtedness among PEs and between PEs and the State, which
remains to be sorted out.
Weak Private Initiatives and Incentives
25.       In setting its industrial development objectives, the Government
aimed at establishing competitive domestic industries, export oriented
activities, increased participation of Gabonese and more equal regional
distribution of economic activities. However, neither the oil-induced high
cost of factors of production nor the existing structure of incentives are
geared to the attainment of these goals. Together, a conflicting set of
policies covering import protection, export taxation, investment incentives
and the regulatory framework distorts market signals for producers and
coniumers alike and has ultimately weakened private initiative.



26.       The external trade regime is governed by a complex tariff struc-
ture which together with numerous duty exemptions on Industrial inputs, an
import licensing system and quantitative restrictions results in high and
dispersed rates of effective protection to local producers. The protection
resulting from these policies has reduced the pressures on domestic
manufacturers to be efficient and internationally competitive and has
raised the cost of goods to domestic consumers. A reform of the system of
protection is needed to harmonize the rates of effective protection and
base it solely on tariffs. Concerning exports, various taxes ranging from
5 to 16 percent exist for revenue purposes, and some products can only be
exported by a state marketing board.
27.       The existing investment code and small-scale promotion laws
re'nforce the detrimental effects of the trade regime by providing
wide-ranging exemptions from duty on imported inputs, low tax rates on
imported capital goods and long, renewable periods of exemption from profit
tax. This has resulted in underutilization of plant capacity and lack of
integration within the industrial sector. On the other hand, a requirement
that all companies issue 10 percent of their shares free to the Government
and provide for Government representation on their board of directors has
discouraged the establishment of new companies. Finally, a complex system
of price controls, monopoly trading privileges, restrictive labor laws and
various sales tax rates have reduced factor mobility and created barriers
to entry. Together, these measures contribute to a high-cost and
inefficient trading system which will have to be substantially liberalized
before the non-oil economy could be expected to increase its growth-rate.
C. Government Response
28.       Faced with the deterioration of budgetary revenues in 1986, the
authorities adopted a stabilization program with the support of a 25-month
standby program approved by the IMF Board in December 1986. Following
this, Gabon benefited from substantial debt relief from the Paris and
London Clubs. Under the standby program, the Government reduced total
expenditures by 48 percent in 1987. A significant part of this reduction
was due to the phasing down of expenditures on the Trans-Gabon railway.
The remainder resulted from a 14 percent reduction in operating
expenditures, including a 9 percent reduction in the wage bill, a 17
percent reduction in goods and services, elimination of consumer subsidies
and reductions in subsidies to public enterprises. Extra-budgetary
expenditures were eliminated, while the investment budget, excluding the
railway, fell by 68 percent. Bank staff assisted ir; the formulation of the
standby program by reviewing the public investment program and preparing a
reform package in the parapublic sector.
29.       Although the measures taken since December 1986 aimed at
financial stabilization, they also succeeded in sensitizing the Government
at several levels to the new reality: that the country had been living
beyond its means, that the crisis was not temporary, that regardless of
minor improvements in oil prices or major oil discoveries there was no
substitute for financial discipline, that there was a genuine need to



diversify the economy's productive base to minimize vulnerability to the
fickle oil market, that planning should be strengthened, that strict
implementation of budget should be observed, and that public enterprises
should be systematically reformed. In short, the 1986-87 developments
convinced the Government of the necessity to adjust not only the structure
of the economy but, more importantly, the decision-making environment as
well as the philosophy and methods ^%f managing the economy.
30.       As first steps towards undertaking a major program of structural
adjustment, the Government has already embarked over the past year on the
road to reform. First, the Ministry of Planning's role has been expanded
and strengthened to improve the process of investment planning and the
arbitration of conflicting claims on limited resources by politically
powerful entities. Second, tight discipline has been established in the
budgetary process: eliminating extra-budgetary expenditures, reducing the
civil service wage bill (by 9 percent in 1987 and 6 percent in 1988),
cutting the investment budget (by 70 percent in 1987 and 13 percent in
1988) and int-oducing a rolling three-year investment plan to rationalize
the process uf ellocating public investments. Third, as the elements of
needed reform touch many facets of the economy, an interministerial
commission in charge of structural adjustment has been established (see
para. 32). Fourth, a systematic process of reforming nearly all public
enterprises was started, and measures have already been taken to tighten
financial discipline, divest unprofitable activities, and establish
monitoring of Pgs, as summarized below.
31.       Non-viable public enterprises (PEs) are being liquidated, closed
or privatized. The liquidation of PIZO (petroleum product distribution),
SOTRAVIL (urban bus transport), PETROGAB (petroleum exploration development
and marketing), CODEV (retail), and SOGACCO (import-export), has been
completed. SNTH (hotels), SOTEGA (clothing), and SONADECI (rural
development) have been closed, their staff released, snd the legal
liquidation process started. SONAGAR (insurance) has been sold to a
private foreign insurance company. Following its liquidation, PIZO's
productive assets were transferred to a foreign oil company. For about 20
other PEs, representing 75 percent of the sector's total value added, the
Government has laumched or signed contracts to carry out a series of
,diagnostic audits'. Contracts for audits of another group of 13 leading
PEs are being prepared for signing during the first half of 1988. These
audits will assess the viability of each PE from a technical, economic,
financial, and management point of view. Based on the results of these
studies the Government will adopt measures to rehabilitate, liquidate or
privatize the management and/or assets of the PEs in question. Under the
IMF standby program, the Government has adopted measures to improve the
financial discipline in the PEs. The 1988 PE investment program has been
revieved in the context of the public investment program to ensure that
investments financed wholly or partially by the State are screened by the
same rules and using the same criteria for economic evaluation of projects.
32.       Finally, to manage the structural adjustment program, ensure
coordination of the different administrative units, and centralize the



- 10 -
information necessary for preparing decisions, the Governmeut has estab-
lished the "Commission de Gestion Chargee de la Restructuration de
l'Economie et de l'Assainissement des Finances Publiques' (La Commission ds
Gestion). This high-level commission is co-chaired by the Ministers of
Planning and Finance and includes among its members the High Commissioner
of Plan, economic and financial advisors of the President and Prime
Minister, the General Treasurer and the General Director of the Economy.
The technical secretariat of the Commission de Gestion (Comite Technique
Permanent) is chaired by the High Comlissioner of Plan and includes among
its members directors and high-level experts and advisors of the central
administration. The Commission will assure thats (a) the restructuring
measures to be adopted are consistent for the economy as a whole; (b)
quality control is regularly exercised in the preparation of policy
documents/measures; and (c) agreements on policy measures with the IMF, the
World Bank and other agencies are implemented in a timely fashion.
D. Assessment and Prospects
33.       Despite the considerable progress achieved in stabilizing the
economy since mid-1986, much remains to be done. Some non-oil sectors
(construction, transport, and services) directly linked to the oil-related
prosperity now suffer from the sharp contraction of public expenditures.
So long cs oil revenues remain depressed, it will be difficult for those
sectors to revive. Other non-oil sectors (agriculture and forestry) have
experienced long neglect in an adverse environment. While fiscal
stabilization is expected to shift emphasis from the public sector to
private initiative, much more is needed to stimulate the development of
productive activities especially in agriculture, forestry, and related
industries.
34.       Yet the development of the tradeable goods sectors is severely
constrained by the unusually high cost of factors of production relative to
other countries. While the ongoing financial stabilization program is
expected to bring about a relative decline in labor remuneration, further
action remains to be done on other fronts. In order to render its products
in the domestic and international markets more competitive, Gabon must
reorient its trade and labor policies so as to reduce the domestic cost of
products, while reorienting government investments and improving incentives
towards the production of tradeables. These latter considerations are an
important element in the medium-term adjustment program for Gabon, designed
to pursue systematically the diversification of the country's production
base.
35.       However, Gabon will continue in the foreseeable future as
primarily an oil economy, because of good prospects for oil in that
country. The Government has pursued an active policy to encourage oil
exploration and development. While oil was produced exclusively by Elf
during 1957-67, the Government has over the years concluded contracts with
other international oil companies. There are now more than 20 companies
presently exploring in Gabon in different forms of associations; seven act
as operators on behalf of the others and four are actually operating on



- 11 -
production permits (Elf, Shell, Amoco, and Tenneco). Significantly, the
1976 peak of 11.3 million tons is going to be approached again in the early
19909 as large new fields start coming on stream in the late 1980s (Rabi)
and early 19908 (Coucal). Throughout the 1990g, oil production is
projected to stay at a roughly stable level of 11 million tons. Given the
prospects of improved oil prices, Government oil revenues are projected to
increase substantially during the 19908.
36.       Against this background, the austerity measures undertaken by the
Government have their critics, whom the Government cannot ignore. Some of
those affected are now advocating a more gradual approach to reform. They
point to the likely improvements in oil revenues in the future and question
the necessity of the far reaching reforms proposed in the adjustment
program. The country's leadership, on the other hand, clearly recognizes
that the current crisis offers an opportunity for major needed reforms and
is proceeding with care both to maintain the delicate social balance and to
introduce the necessary measures. For ex ample, when powerful trade unions
threatened to take action in February 1988 in response to the proposed
suspension of the SMIG, the Government decided instead to encourage the
payment-by-task system, thus directly tying wages to productivity
without upsetting the social balance.
PART II - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTEMENT PROGRAM
A. Objectives and Approach
37.       The aim of Gabon's medium-term adjustment program is to
reestablish macro-economic equilibria, lay the foundation for sustained
growth, diversify productive activities, improve the country's
international creditworthiness, and promote the efficiency of public
resource use. To carry out these objectives, the program would
specifically aim to:
(a) attain fiscal balance by limiting public sector expenditures to
available resources;
(b) allocate public resources to release constraints on growth, such
as inadequate extension services and infrastructure maintenance,
to assure that adjustment is not carried out at the expense of
growth;
(c) reform the policy environment to stimulate private sector initia-
tives in productive non-oil sectors, especially in agriculture,
forestry, and related manufacturing;
(d) improve the efficiency of public resource use, both in public
administration and in public enterprises;
(e) rationalize wage-productivity relations throughout the economy by
introducing incentives and rewarding productive workers;



- 12 -
(f) highlight the importance of human resources in the process of
development; and
(g)  utilize income tax from the oil companies judiciously, by
earmarking a portion to finance investment expenditures and
retire the debt, and the remainder to establish a financial
reserve fund for future generations.
38.       The changes implicit in attaining these goals are profound and
will undoubtedly require time to be fully realized. A phased approach is
therefore required. The Government has identified as the focus of this
first phase of adjustment a number of priorities. First, it must
complement its stabilization measures by a medium-term framework for
guiding public resource managument. Second, it will restructure the PE
sector to reduce its size and financial burden on the State. This would
entail concerted action in those key parastatals that provide vital public
services. Third, it will encourage efficient private sector activities,
since the private sector must take up the slack in the economy resulting
from the public sector's retrenchment. Finally, the Government intends to
adopt specific measures to ensure that any future vindfall in oil revenues
is used wisely. Since this first phase will only be the beginning of the
adjustment process, the strategy includes preparation of additional
measures to extend and intensify the process, especially at the sectoral
level.
B. The First Phase of the Adlustment Program
39.       Going beyond its stabilization program initiated in December
1986, the Government proposes a number of important measures that will
constitute a comprehensive medium-term program of policy reform. The first
phase of this program is designed to be carried out over a twelve-month
period; it is embodied in the Government's Declaration of Development
Strategy (Annez IV) the key features of which are summarized below.
Public Sector Resource Management
40.       Under the structural adjustment program, management of public
sector resources will consist of several interconnected elements: public
investment rationalization, current expenditure programmirg, civil service
reform, debt management, and the establishment of a financial reserve fund.
The structural adjustment program aims at increasing non-oil revenues and
reducing absorption in line with diminished resources in the medium-term.
Increasing non-oil revenues will be achieved through expanding the fiscal
base of the economy and improving tax collection. A three-year rolling
plan of State investment expenditures (*loi-programme*) was prepared in
October 1987, reviewed by the Bank and enacted in December 1987. Except
for construction of a limited number of classrooms in Libreville, the
remainder of the 1988 investment program is focused for the most part on
completing existing projects. Starting with the present exercise, no
public investments can be implemented (even if financing is readily
available) unless already stipulated in the loi-programme -- a badly needed



- 13 -
feature to establish discipline and control in the allocation of public
resources. The loi-prograume will be prepared every October thereafter, to
accomplish specific taskss define the main economic and financial policies
of the following three years; estimate the amounts available for
investments, current expenditures, and debt service, as well as the
corresponding financing sources; detail and integrate the investment
programs of the State and public enterprises and specify their financing:
estimate the recurrent expenditures associated with those investments; and
specify the accompanying measures and implementation schedules.
41.       Improvements in management of public investment expenditures have
begun with two recent measures: a legal framework empowering the Ministry
of Plan and Economy to control the investment budget (thus arbitrating
among competing claims for public investment resources), and the
Oprioritization' of projects based on integrating the physical, economic
and financial data for each project. Furthermore, greater discipline will
be achieved in the light of the Government's decision to have no recourse
to suppliers credit and extra-budgetary practices as methods of investment
financing. The Government's priority in investment allocation is to expand
productive sectors, rehabilitate and maintain the supporting
infrastructure, rationalize goverment operations, and develop human
resources.
42.       Management of current expenditures will be tied to the State's
stable resources. Specifically, the Government has decided that current
expenditures necessary to operate the civil service should be budgeted at a
level not to exceed non-oil revenues. This guideline was observed by the
Government in the 1987 and 1988 budgets. It will continue to apply during
the crisis years.
43.       These measures are to be accompanied by civil service reform.
Government employment of 30,000 (including 12,000 military and police)
represents one fourth of the active non-farm population and their
collective wage bill (CIA? 106 billion in 1987) absorbs 44 percent of the
budget's operating expenditures. Contributing to the inefficiency of the
civil service are several factors such as the ambiguity of the civil
service statutes, the poor training and qualifications of many civil
servants, and cumbersome administrative procedures. Socio-cultural factors
(ethnic and tribal interests) also intervene in determining managerial
positions. Although the Government attempted to reform the civil service
in the early 1980s, the results were not fully satisfactory.
44.       The objective of the civil service reform within the SAL process
is to define and adopt a sound human resource policy through: streamlining
the bureaucracy, improving administrative efficiency, reducing wages,
fringe benefits and staffing, rationalizing the legal and regulatory
framework, motivating personnel, providing in-service training especially
for managers, and minimizing overlap between ministries in the management
of civil servants. As a first step, a plan to examine and review the
organization and management of the civil service will start in November
1988. This timing is dictated by the higher priority of other reform



- 14 -
measures being prepared by the technical secretariat of the Commission de
la Gestion during the first half of 1988 (e.g. PE audit results and
subsequent reforms). An action plan will be prepared by the Government for
the implementation of the study's recommendations by mid 1989.
45.       State resources in the medium term will remain below the boom
levels of the past. Even if such resources were to reach previous peaks
over the long term, the weight of Gabun's external debt burden is such that
the Government will most likely seek rescheduling of its bilateral debt
through the Paris Club in each of the next three years, 1988-90.
Rescheduling may be needed during 1991-92, as well, if oil prices do not
recover as currently expected. In seeking these reschedulings, the
Government's debt management strategy aims to extend the period of
repayment so as to smooth out the sharp 3 to 5 year hump that currently
characterizes the maturity structure. The Government also needs to secure
considerable amounts of quick disbursing loans to support the adjustment
program, but in so doing, the Government is limited in contracting new
short- and medium-term commercial loans (less than 10-12 year maturity),
Including debt rescheduling, to CFAF 300 billion on a cumulative basis
during Calendar 1987 and 1988. Given the amounts rescheduled in 1987 and
the reschedulings anticipated in 1988, the implied ceiling on short-term
borrowing for 1987-88 would be less than US$250 million.
46.       Finally, a central 'lement in the process of public resource
management is the establishment of a financial reserve fund for the benefit
of future generations. Unlike stabilization funds common in commodity-
exporting countries, this fund will be established, based on oil revenues,
to generate a permanent stream of income as and when oil production
declines in the next century. Its proceeds will be held in secure
investments outside of Gabon. Annual sums flowing into the fund will be
through the budget process, and its management will be autonomous of
government intervention, through some form of trusteeship. Income from
investments will be ploughed back into the fund's portfolio for the
foreseeable future. The fund will not serve as collateral for government
borrowing, and access to the principal or accumulated income will not be
allowed, at least through the year 2000, and possibly well beyond,
depending on the profile of oil revenues in relation to public investments.
At that time, access will be limited to investment income -- not the
investments themselves -- to supplement well-planned public investment
resources. Given the current financial difficulties, only a symbolic
deposit of CFAP 2 billion per annum would be made during 1989-90.
Subsequently, 5 percent of all oil revenues would be deposited in the fund
during 1991-95 and 10 percent during 1996-2000. Assuming 8.5 percent
average annual return on principal, the accumulated sum at the end of the
century would be CFAP 280 billion. Satisfactory progress in the
preparation of the legal framework and procedures to establish and operate
the fund is required as part of the SAL program.



- 15 _
Public Enterprise Reform
47.       The reform of public enterprises has several dimensions (techni-
cal, financial, legal, etc.) which need to be pursued simultaneously. The
Government has already ermbarked on the road to reforming the PR sector, as
was indicated above (para. 31). Further measures are still to come, and
the newly formed Commission de la Gestion is expected to play a leadership
role in implementing the PE reform. The Ministry of Plan staff who are now
part of the technical secretariat of the Commission have played a key role
in the audits launched and measures already taken on PEs. The reform
measures may be broadly classified as: (a) rationalizing the size of the 1'!
sector; (b) restructuring the finances of PE's to instill greater financial
discipline; (c) establishing an institutional framework to monitor
implementation of PE reform and relations with the State; and (d) adopting
plans for rehabilitation, restructuring and personnel management.
48.       Contracting the Public Enterprise Sector.  The liquidation/
privatization of PEs undertaken so far has been carried out on a
case-by-case basis. Although a legal framework exists for liquidation of
private enterprises, no such framework exists for the liquidation of public
enterprises. This is why the legal procedures involved in the affected PEs
were implemented on an ad-hoc and often confusing basis. It became
therefore evident for the affected PEs that the Government needs to adopt
clear procedures for liability settlement. Now that the diagnostic audits
for the 20 leading PEs have been launched, the Government will have a
comprehensive evaluation of this group during the second half of 1988.
Meanwhile, contracts for similar diagnostic audits of the next group of 13
large enterprises are to be signed during the first half of 1988. As
before, the evaluation shall cover technical, economic, financial and
management dimensions of PEs. Within three months of finalization of the
diagnostic audits, as they become sequentially available (for completion
schedule, see Annex IV), the Government will take decisions based on the
recommended reform measures (liquidation, rehabilitation, or
privatization). Such decisions for at least 22 PEs (including OCTRA, SEEC,
AIR GABON, and SNBG) will be taken by the Council of Ministers as a
condition of second tranche release.
49.       Given the seriousness of their situations, the Government -- on
the basis of prediagnostic studies -- has already taken the following
reform measures in OCTRA (railroad) and AIR GABON (airline).
(a) OCTRA: reduction in budgeted investments to CFAF 27 billion in
1988 (from CFAF 130 billion in 1986); tranching the investment
budget; not allowing investment resources to finance operational
deficit; and reducing fringe benefits for employed staff. More
far-reaching measures, satisfactory to the Bank, will be taken by
August 1988 after finalization of the diagnostic audit in May
1988;
(b) AIR GABONs one of its two Fokker-28 has been sold, and operating
expenses reduced by closing one representative office and



- 16 -
stopping flights on two international sectors. Measures being
considereds stop purchase of a Lockheed-100 plane, and sale with
lease-back option of the Boeing 747. A detailed action plan for
reform will be prepared by June 1988, and a performance contract
for its implementation will be concluded with the Government as a
condition of second tranche release.
50.       Financial Discipline and Restructuring.  In addition to measures
already taken under the IMF standby, the Government plans to apply a series
of measures to promote financial discipline in the PE sector.
Specifically, conditions for granting government guarantees to PEs for
local borrowing have been strictly set. As of January 1, 1988, investments
over CFAF 500 million, irrespective of financing sources, have become the
subject of government approval in order to avoid wasteful and/or prestige
investments. Government subsidies to PEs have been drastically reduced (by
22 percent in 1987 and by another 24 percent in 1988). The Government
intends to freeze subsidies to PEs at their 1988 level, improve internal
budgetary mechanisms in PEs to avoid increasing subsidies, and monitor the
use of direct or implicit subsidies (advantages arising from tax exemption
status or monopoly powers). Prompt payment of current bills among PEs and
between PEs and the State is accepted as a necessary elemen' of financial
discipline. In the past, the Government itself has systematically under-
budgeted the annual allocations necessary to pay for public utilities and
other operating services, e.g. electricity, water, transport,
telecommunications and petroleum products. For example, at current con-
sumption rates, the Government is building up annual arrears of CFAF 4
billion toward SEEG, the power and water utility. To address this problem,
and after consultation with suppliers, the Government will increase the
budget allocations of central Government administration starting with the
1989 budget to realistic levels to pay for electricity, water, transport,
telecommunications and petroleum products without accumulation of arrears
(second tranche release condition). Finally, to assure that financial
discipline continues on strong footing, a comprehensive plan will be
implemented to settle in 1988 at least 20 percent of accumulated arrears
and cross-debts as of end 1987. In preparation, the Government has just
concluded a tabulation of crossldebts between PEs and with the State as of
end 1987 and made an evaluation of the impact of such debt on the private
sector. The Government has prepared an action plan for settlement of
acknowledged arrears and cross debts between the PEs and with the State and
the implementation of the 1988 portion of this plan will be a second
tranche release condition.
51.       Institutional Framework and Monitoring of Public Enterprises.
The Ministries of Plan and Finance collaborated in 1987 to improve the
database of PEs. Consolidated accounts dating back to 1986 have been
prepared for the thirty leading enterprises. At present, the Ministry of
Finance is having the aunual accounts of the PEs audited by qualified
auditing firms. Each enterprise has been instructed to submit to the
Commission de Gestion complete audited accounts at the latest four months
after the close of the fiscal year. In preparing its budget, each
enterprise will be required to present its proposals by September 15 of



- 17 -
each year to the Commission de Gestion s0 that the Government prepare its
PE budget accordingly for the following year. In the process, the
Government will assess and decide the financial burden of each PE on State
finances in terms of budgetary support, public investment or increased debt
exposure through guaranteed debt.
52.       The Government will carry out a legal and institutional review of
the PEs legal framework and of their relations with the State. Terms of
reference of the review will be prepared by May 1988, the review itself
will start in July 1988 to be completed in November 1988. The purpose of
the review is to promote greater autonomy and accountability of the public
enterprises, establish clearer objectives, develop performance criteria and
incentives, and ensure more efficient and streamlined supervision. This
new legal framework will be in place early in 1989, based in part on the
results of a study drawing on the observations and suggestions gathered
during the diagnostic-audits. A satisfactory action plan, on the basis of
the decisions on reform measures for PEs under audit, including measures to
introduce the new legal framework, will be prepared as a condition for
second tranche release. The new framework will define inter alia the role
and composition of the boards of directors, the nomination and dismissal
procedures of chief executive officers in order to ensure their competence
for the position and their accountability for results, the autonomy of the
chief executive officer to hire and fire their management team, and the
role and required skills of government supervisory officials.
53.       Given this overall framework, individual performance contracts
(contrats programme) will be negotiated between the State and specific PEs
within four months after audit results become available to establish
managerial, technical and financial performance targets for the enterprise
and to detail the State's commitment on financial and policy issues
concerning the enterprise. The performance contract will limit the
Governmet's day-to-day intervention in parastatal management, while
increasing the enterprise's accountability for performance results. Formal
adoption of the contract with  AIR GABON and satisfactory progress of
negotiations for performance contracts to be concluded in 1989 with
selected PEs including OCTRA and SEEG are conditions for the release of the
second tranche.
54.       Rehabilitation of Public Enterprises. Enterprises remaining in
the public sector will launch a major effort to reduce their inordinately
high cost structure that weighs heavily on the country's competitiveness,
and to 'mprove their performance. Already, salaries in the PEs have been
cut by a 5 percent average during 1987 and a decision has been taken by the
wovernment to cut another 10 percent during 1988. Actual implementation of
these decisions, leading to a reduction by a minimum average of 15 percent
compared to end 1986, is a condition of second tranche release. Given that
a small minority of employees make a major portion of the wage bill in most
PEs, the indicated average salary cuts will affect higher salaries much
more substantially than lower salaries. Salaries at the lowest evd of the
scale will not be touched. In addition, PEs have placed a ceiling on their
respective staffing at the December 1987 levels. PEs will implement staff



- 18 -
reduction plans and reorganization of salary structures following the
conclusions of the on-going diagnostic studies. Contrary to what has often
happened in the past for social reasons, the Government is now committed to
support staff reduction requests by the enterprises, as it did with the
recent release of staff in PEa slated for closure/liquidation (SNTH and
SOTEGA). Cost reductions and enhanced operational efficiency will also be
sought through implementation of individual rehabilitation programs aiming
at improved technical, administrative and financial management of PEs as
well as restructuring their activities and lines of business.
Incentive Policies and Promotion of SHE's
55.        Vhile improving the efficiency of the public sector, the Govern-
ment intends to increase the competitive pressure on costs and prices as
well as to stimulate initiative in the private sector through trade
liberalization and industrial incentives reform. Sectoral protection
biases will be progressively eliminated and the constraints to investment
and/or labor flexibility imbedded in the regulatory framework relaxed.
These measures should benefit producers and consumers alike while setting
the grounds for a more efficient allocation of resources in the future.
56.       Trade Liberalization. As a first step, the Government will
eliminate by September 1988 quantitative import restrictions (certificats
de carence) on all but five goods (sugar, vegetable oil, soap, mineral
water, and cement). Restrictions wi.ll be temporarily maintained on those
goods to give time for further restructuring studies given: (i) the high
level of public investment in these sectors, (ii) the high volatility and
distortions (subsidies, dumping) in world prices and (iii) the associated
vulnerability of the small Gabonese market. Compensatory import tariff
adjustments on all other goods will be implemented through the revision of
the 'Taze Complementaire a l'Importation* to ensure an appropriate level of
transitional protection to local producers and transfer the scarcity rent
to the Budget (exact rates will be agreed with the Bank by September 1988).
This protection will then be progressively lowered to increase efficiency
and lower prices. The removal of the *certificats de carence' woulds (a)
render redundant the functions of the Technical Committee for Import
Allocation (CTRI) and thus pave the way for its abolition; and (b)
contribute to the reduction of the advantages of local monopolies in
production and thus increase import competition. Other measures to
increase competition among importers will be identified by June 1988 and
their implementation will start in September 1988.
57.       Price Controls.  The Government is committed to liberalize
progressively all prices except a limited number of socially important
goods and services (12) during 1988 to promote market competition and
reduce the distortions it has previously generated. Following the slack in
income and demand, the process of liberalization will eventually reduce
prices, which will soften the effect of reduced wages, especially in the
Government. Meanwhile, to take into account the oligopolistic nature of
Gabonese markets and protect the consumer, the removal both of the price
controls on locally produced goods and the trade margins (wmarges



- 19 -
conmerciales") on imported goods will be tmplemented in phases. The
detailed scope of these phases has been established in consultation with
the Bank during negotiations on the basis of the 'Price and Trade Sector
Study' concluded in January 1988. The first phase will cover prices of
goods to be liberalized in April 1988 and consists mainly of imported
goods.   Subsequently, price liberelization will be closely synchronized
with the removal of quantitative restrictions on imports on a
commodity-by-commodity basis (second tranche release condition). The
second phase will cover prices of goods that will be liberalized by
September 1988. The entire price liberalization process will be closely
monitored by the Government, and the Bank will be consulted should major
amendments to the proposed phases, their scope, or schedule be warranted.
58.       Incentives reforms.  The Government is committed to reducing the
level of protection of local industry and the associated sectoral biases
such protection has induced. Within the constraints of UDEAC, the
Government will put in place as fast as possible a new general regime of
fiscal incentives with actions on four fronts: the Investment Code, the
Unique Tax regime, the 'Code des Participations' and the external tariff.
59.       The Government will stop using the present Investment Code and
Unique Tax (TU) regime as of end 1988. A new draft Code will be prepared
by an external consultant and submitted to the Bank for comments by June
1988 along the following guidelines:
(a) transparency and automacity: access to benefits will be
automatic and available to all new investment (well-defined
extensions will qualify);
(b) neutrality of benefits: granted benefits will be based on value
added and, except for a low tax on capital goods, will be subject
to import duties;
(c) advantages will be declining over an agreed time horizon: and
(d) economically efficient investments will be promoted (no clauses
to restrict competition).
The proposed Code, satisfactory to the Bank, will cover both large and
Small-Medium Scale Enterprises (SME); it will be approved by the Council of
Ministers, as a condition to release the second tranche, and enacted by
January 1989. The advantages of the Code will be granted for a limited
period and will be non-renewable. In parallel, the "Code des
Participations", which provides the Government with 10 percent equity
rights and representation on the Board of Directors of private companies,
will be revised. The revision will follow the same time table as the
revised Investment Code to reduce and eventually eliminate the prerogatives
of the State vis-a-vis private companies in so far as equity and management
are concerned (second tranche conditions).



- 20 -
60.       Meanwhile on the tariff side, the Government will reduce the
dispersion of the cumulative rates through the Droits et Taxes &
l'Importation (DTI). During the first phase (end 1988), the DTI will be
adjusted to produce a maximum cumulative tariff protection of 100 percent
(150 percent for luxury goods, except for beer) and a minimum of 10
percent, which wlll be incorporated in the 1989 Loi de Finances. The
second phase will achieve a tariff range of 20-80 percent (120 percent for
luxury goods) by end 1990. However, any such system would have to take
account of the impact on competitiveness of changes in the parameters of
international trade. Further changes will have to be monitored through a
mandate from the General Secretariat of UDEAC.  The Government will raise
the issue of a major reform of the Common External Tariff (TEC), the Taxe
Unique (TU) regime and the indirect taxes at the next UDEAC Management
Committee (Comite de Direction) in June 1988. The Government's immediate
objective is to establish a structure of common external tariffs that is
simple, neutral, with fewer exemptions. The ultimate objectives are to
even out effective protection rates and thus reduce the associated sectoral
distortions amd raise import tax revenues.
61.       Incentive to Expand Exports.  Due to the small size of the
domestic market, the Government will encourage export oriented activities
through a series of measures. Taxes on exports will be progressively
phased out starting with the 1989 Loi de Finances, with the possible
exception of logs and mining products. As a first step, the turn-over tax
will be removed on all exports except on natural resources by end 1988
(second tranche release condition). All other export taxes will be
iliminated as soon as import tariff increases could compensate for the
resultant revenue loss. Regarding wood exports, a study examining all the
elements, including taxes, involved in the determination of wood prices
from cutting to marketing will be carried out to help the Government decide
on measures to improve the competitiveness of timber exports by November
1988 (second tra!lche release condition). In parallel, the Government will
make available by the end of 1988 a customs "entrepOt industriel^ to allow
the duty-free importation of inputs used for exported goods.
62.       Private Sector Promotion.  To improve the allocation of labor and
investment resources in the context of structural adjustment, the Govern-
ment will pay special attention to the promotion of private sector activi-
ties. Given the small size of the domestic market, the modest level of
local entrepreneurship, the diminishing economic role of the State, and the
scarcity of capital resources, the most logical form of private sector
development is that of the SMEs. To the extent that the minimum wage rate
(SMIG) has been a significant constraint to the profitability, and hence
the development of SMEs, whether in urban or rural areas. the Government
will promote more flexible labor costs by introducing apprenticeship
status, encouraging the payment-by-task system which ties wages to
prAductivity and strengthening measures to fight absenteism through a
revision of the Labor Code (approval of final draft by the Council of
Ministers is a condition to release the second tranche). These moves
should allow market forces to determine the 'effective' wage rate, thus
benefiting not only SMEs, but large enterprises as well. Existing



- 21 -
mechanisms to promote SMEs (Fonds d'Aide et de Garantie) will be
strengthened by additional resources, thus supplementing present technical
assistance provided by the French.
Key Sectoral Policies
63.       The proposed structural adjustment includes policies to reorient
the key sectors of the economy and diversify production. Given Gabon's
resource endowments, the size and structure of local and international
demand for its products, and the level and structure of its wages and
prices, agriculture and forestry (and related industries) offer the most
promising opportunities to promote productive activities, diversify the
economic base, and contribute simultaneously to employment generation and
foreign exchange earnings/savings. To this end, a key concern of the
Government is the maintenance of the road network system, including rural
feeder roads, and the improved management of other transport modes.
64.       taricultural Development.  The agricultural sector has never been
oriented to comercial markets. During the colonial period the major
economic activities were timber production and mining. Other than some
smallholder cocoa production in the north, developed in the 1950's, agri-
culture primarily consisted of subsistence production by the rural popula-
tion.   Rural-urban transport was expensive, and the major food
requirements of the small urban population at Port Gentil, Libreville and
the mining towns were met with imports.
65.       During the mid 19709, with the ready availability of capital, the
Government embarked on a policy to develop large parastatal enterprises in
sectors such as palm oil, rubber, sugar, cattle ranching, poultry, meat,
cocoa, coffee and tropical fruits. These were directed mainly at the
domestic market and most were highly capital intensive. Given high wage
levels, the need for foreign skilled labor and generally high cost levels
in Gabon, these enterprises are unlikely to be financially viable without
continued protection and/or subsidies. No new investments are being
started in these agricultural parastatals and the existing program is being
scaled down and stretched out.  The Government has liquidated SONADECI
which was developing fruit, cocoa and coffee plantations; and has targeted
AGROGABON (oil, palm, cattle), HEVEGAB (rubber) and SOSUHO (sugar) to start
audits in June 1988.
66.       As a result of the emphasis on parastatals,  smallholder agri-
culture was relatively neglected and remained largely oriented to sub-
sistence. Development of this sector, as well as artisanal fisheries,
faces a number of constraints. There is a lack of an agricultural tradi-
tion and experience of market oriented production. The urban market,
heavily influenced by the foreign population, has preferences for types and
quality of produce which the local producer is not yet geared to supply.
The retailing system is also dominated by foreigners predisposed to import.
Because of scattered population, low volumes of marketed production and
inadequacies of transport infrastructure, marketing costs are high and the
marketing system is poorly developed.  The development of smallholder



- 22 -
agriculture along commercial lines has been further hampered by a system of
indicative prices (prix mercuriales) which are generally set by local
authorities at arbitrary levels. To the extent that these prices interfere
with market forces, they should be eliminated to give producers the
undistorted signals to adjust their production patterns accordingly. The
Government has decided to examine the mercuriales in the wider context of
marketing food products (para. 69), to help reach an informed decision on
the fate of the mercuriales by November 1988 (condition for second tranche
release).
67.       Faced with these conditions, the Government is basing its rural
development policy on 'Op4rations Zonales Int4gr4es' (OZI). The object of
this program is to pursue some concentration of rural development efforts
via complementary activities so as to provide a basis for growth of small-
scale agricultural and other enterprises. Where larger scale enterprises
exist, e.g. parastatals, small-scale enterprises could benefit from the
infrastructure and the demand for food and services by the parastatal
employees.
68.       In this context, Government has in hand a series of measures to
promote smallholder based agricultural development: implementing a program
of development of small plantations of cocoa and coffee of 150-200 ha each
in village blocks; using the National Rural Credit Bank, established in
1986, to improve availability of credit and financial services in rural
areas and to fishermen; reorienting extension programs towards more
focussed technical support for smallholders and to demonstration centers in
OZI areas; emphasizing adaptive research to produce improved planting
material or breeding stock; reorienting the program of the "Ecole Nationale
des Cadres Ruraux d'Oyem to meet better the needs of the private sector;
and improving the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture for project
preparation, appraisal, and monitoring. Government financing to promote
smallholder agriculture will be constrained during 1988 due to prior
cop%itments to parastatals. However, starting in 1989 Government budget
will include funding for smallholder programs.
69.       Other measures of reform for agricultural development concern
comuercial and marketing services which will have to be systematically
studied before decisions can be made. Two studies are especially relevant:
a study of prospects and problems of marketing cash crops, especially the
role of Cocoa and Coffee Stabilization Funds, to identify areas where cost
reductions could be implemented; and a study of marketing channels for
domestically produced food products including fish (para. 66) to identify
those products for which action could be taken: (a) to increase production
for local consumption, and (b) to open up the local market or reduce the
incentive to import. These studies should prepare the groundwork for
future investments in the acricultural sector.
70.       Forestry Development.  Of a total area of 24 million ha of
tropical high forest, 4 million ha have already been exploited, and another
12.5 million ha are suitable for commercial exploitation. This is a major
national resource, with a relatively high portion of a single species



- 23 -
(Okoum4) that is a preferred timber for veneer and plywood uses, and of
which Gabon has about 902 of world supply. Exploitation concessions and
temporary use permits are granted on the basis of inventory and exploi-
tation plans prepared by the concessionaries. Though the Ministry of Water
Resources and Forestry is responsible for monitoring forestry concessions,
it does not have the staff to carry out its functions adequately or, for
that matter, build up a satisfactorily comprehensive picture of national
forest resources needed for sound long-term management.
71.       By mid 19609, timber production reached a peak of 2 million cubic
meters per year. But as the most accessible areas became increasingly
utilized, production declined by about 50 percent and remained stationary
at that level until the present. Although the railway has opened up new
areas, this advantage has been offset by high labor and other production
costs, high costs of domestic transport, exportation and sea freight. In
addition increased supplies of French timber have reduced France's import
demand (the traditional market for Gabon's Okoume). At the same time,
hardwoods from other timber producing countries especially South East Asia
have become more competitive.
72.       The Government set up the Societe Nationale des Bois du Gabon
(SNBG) to help loggers market their products internationally, but the
efficiency of the enterprise has been low, operating costs high, and
services rendered limited. Despite an apparently reasonably strong market
for Okoume, SNGB has been concentrating its efforts instead on selling
increasing quantities of lower quality grades for which profit margins are
higher. While this practice boosts revenues to SNGB it sharply reduces the
Government's tax receipts and also returns to producers. As a result
logging has become a marginally profitable activity. Furthermore, SNGB has
accumulated large losses now totalling about CFAF 9 billion (of which CFAF
2 billion represent delayed payments to suppliers, primarily loggers).
This liquidity squeeze together with the lowered profitability is placing
the sector in jeopardy since banks are becoming increasingly reluctant to
provide credit to loggers. As a first step in reforming the management of
the forestry sector, the Government has commissioned an audit of SNGB, the
results of which will decide the fate of the enterprise (May 1988), and the
means to reduce the general financial constraints on the sector.
73.       Taking prompt action on SNGB is but one element in a broader
reform effort in the forestry sector. Gabon's rich and underexploited
forest represents one of the few situations in Africa where there is still
a major opportunity for the sustained exploitation of natural forestry
resources, subject to appropriate environmental protection measures. The
Government recognizes the necessity for a double-pronged strategy that
gives full attention to environmental protection as well as facilitating
sustainable cnmmercial exploitation. On the conservation side, the
strategy includes preparing an inventory of forestry resources, defining
endangered species, safeguarding the country's natural flora and fauna,
establishing a system of protected areas representative of different
ecosystems, strengthening the present reserve system, launching public
campaigns to increase conservation awareness, and adopting a rational



- 24 -
exploitation of wildlife for tourism and hunting. On the sustained
development side, the strategy includes promoting the rational exploitation
of forest without degrading the resource base, processing and marketing
timber to maximize the return to the economy, and increasing participation
of Gabonese nationals in forestry development. To launch this strategy and
translate it into series of specific actions, the Government has
established the Working Group on Timber with the participation of the
Ministry of Planning and Economy, Ministry of Water Resources and Forestry,
OCTRA, and representatives of the private forestry sector. This group will
be entrusted with the preparation of a national strategy for forestry
development, the main elements of which include:
(a) development of a land use plan to delineate the boundaries
between nature reserves, protected watersheds, commercial forests
for timber exploitation, agricultural development, atc.;
(b) execution of forest inventory and development of a wildlife
conservation strategy;
(c) development of a forest management action plan, which would
define roles of private concessionaires, develop procedures and
guidelines to grant concessions and use permits, promote forest
protection and enforcement policies, and adopt incentives to
encourage the efficient utilization of forest resources; and
(d) undertaking agricultural and agro-forestry research and extension
for soil conservation and development of cash crops (coffee,
cocoa, palm oil, rubber, etc.).
74.       Transport.  Because of the size of the country, its low popula-
tion density and the large volumes of transport (particularly timber,
manganese and oil), the transport system in Gabon is a key sector. The
system comprises about 5500 km of roads, 700 km of which are paved serving
some 30,000 vehicles, a new 600 km railway between Libreville and France-
ville, a well developed domestic civil aviation system, two seaports, an
inland waterways system and coastal shipping. While road transport is
privately operated, all other modes are dominated by parastatals. Due to
the economic crisis, those enterprises are faced with rapidly declining
traffic and, consequently, increasing financial losses. Over the last
decade the Government has made large investments in transport infrastruc-
ture, particularly for the construction of the Transgabonese railways
(OCTRA). However, as a result of drastic reduction in revenues since 1986,
further investments and expenditures for maintenance of transport infra-
structure have been curtailed, except for a limited amount of expenditures
to complete the railway.
75.       The main sector problems are:  (a) the continuing financial
losses of the transport parastatals because of poor management and declin-
ing economic activity; and (b) the deterioration of the road network as a
result of deferring road maintenance. Financial and technical audits of
the main transport parastatals are being conducted and the recommendations,



- 25 -
particularly those relating to OCTRA, will be reviewed with the Government
as results of the audits become available. Several interim measures for
OCTRA and AIR GABON have already been taken (para 49), and agreement on
action plans following diagnostic audit findings is a condition of second
tranche release. To improve road maintenance and avoid further deteriora-
tion of the road network, the Government is preparing a three-year road
maintenance program that goes beyond the allocations of the 1988-90 Loi
Programme and for which the Government may seek funding from external
sources.
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Loan History
76.       The proposed loan will support Gabon's structural 2djustment
program, the elaboration of which has been made possible in part by a
UNDP-financed Bank-managed non-reimbursable technical assistance to the
Ministry of Plan and by technical assistance missions in September 1986 and
March 1987. The need for a major restructuring of the economy was becoming
increasingly evident. The March 1987 mission helped identify the major
elements of adjustment and assisted the Government in preparing its
Declaration of Development Strategy. The structural adjustment program was
appraised in October/November 1987 and follow-up discussions took place in
Libreville in January/February 1988. Negotiations were held in Washington
in March 1988; the Gabonese delegation was headed by H.E. Pascal Nze,
Minister of Planning and Economy.  Supplementary loan data are provided in
Annex V.
B. Support of Policy Reform
77.       The proposed operation would complement Gabon's economic stabili-
zation measures already taken and initiate a medium-term adjustment of the
economy starting with public sector resource management, public enterprise
reform and an improved incentive environment to encourage the expansion of
productive activities, particularly forestry and agriculture. The Govern-
ment has provided the Bank with a Declaration of Development Strategy which
articulates the principles of restructuring the economy during the crisis
years and describes the specific measures that have been taken or will be
taken during the first phase of the adjustment program (Annex III). These
measures are summarized in Annex IV. The loan would ease Gabon"s financial
constraint during the adjustment period, not only with respect to external
capital requirements, but also by increasing budgetary resources.
C. Effects of Adjustment
78.       Gabon is engaged in a major reorientation in attitudes, habits,
institutions and policies. The desired impact is to achieve, over the
longer term, growth with greater equity, particularly between rural and
urban populatlons, through adjustment. While oil remains the pillar of the
Gabonese economy, the adjustment process aims at maximizing the growth of
the non-oil productive sectors with a view to long-term diversification and



- 26 -
reduced dependence on oil. With appropriate policies and incentives, the
forestry sector is expected to return to its pre-oil levels of output while
commercial agriculture will expand. This implies that bottlenecks such as
rural roads will be 3ased and that some redeployment of the workforce,
previously engaged in construction and services, will take place. A
revival of agriculture and forestry could also stimulate non-oil
manufacturing, especially in related light industries such as food, wood
processing and light consumer-goods. An efficient use of oil resources in
the post-stabilization phase and a reduced role for the public sector are
essential for this revival to take place and be sustained over the medium-
term. The objective is to reduce the vulnerability of the economy to major
swings in oil revenues.
79.       Although the economic crisis itself is likely to be relatively
short-lived, its macroeconomic overhang and associated adjustments are
going to last much longer. Specifically, the worst of the contraction in
GDP and national income is most likely already over as GDP is expected to
stabilize during 1988 and then, as a result of increased oil production,
begin to grow in 1989. By 1991 GDP is expected to return to its 1985 peak
level in real terms. Thereafter, the non-oil sectors combined, based on
restored competitiveness, are expected to contribute more to the growth of
the economy, with a rate of growth of about 3 percent per annum through the
end of the century. Most of this expansion will come from growth in
agriculture and forestry as they contribute to increased exports (timber,
rubber, coffee, cocoa, and palm oil) and reduced food imports. Despite
these diversification efforts, Gabon will remain an oil economy through the
end of the century, but the share of oil will be much less, between 25 to
30 percent of GDP, compared to 45 percent during the first half of the
1980's. An important change in the structure of production will have thus
occurred.
80.       While GDP and production levels are expected to recover quickly
in real terms, gross national income will not return to its 1984-85 level
before the end of the century. Despite the projected increase in oil
prices, Gabon's terms of trade are projected to increase to only about 75
percent of their 1984 level by the year 2000. Similarly, domestic
consumption is not projected to return to its 1984 level before 1997, and,
as a result of revived migration inflows associated with increased oil
revenues, and consumption per capita will remain stagnant at its current
level for the foreseeable future. The decline in living standards is thus
long-lasting and requires a permanent change in Gabon's expenditure
patterns. The economy has already adjusted to a lower level of resources
which will increase only gradually over time. What is needed now is to
implement and sustain the reform program to restructure production and
stimulate.the non-oil sectors.  Table 1 summarizes Gabon's growth prospects
based on successful implementation of its adjustment program.
81.       The viability of the adjustment scenario can be assured by
satisfying three conditions: (a) generating the appropriate supply
response, (b) covering the Government's own financial requirements, and



- 27 -
(c) preventing import levels from falling significantly further. In this
regard, the Government will need to make a major effort to identify and
line up new sources of financing and to reschedule its official bilateral
debts over the next three years. The current pipeline of undisbursed loans
is low in comparison with past years and needs to be substantially
replenished. Undisbursed loans at the end of 1987 are estimated at only
US$360 million and are expected to provide only about US$100 million per
annum in disbursements over the next three years. This compares with a
gross financing requirement of about US$710 million per annum over the next
three years. Detailed BOP projections are set out in Annex VI.
Table 1. Growth Prospects With Adjustment
Real Growth Rates         1986      1987      1988-90   1991-95  1996-2000
C---- period averages -----)
GDP                       -5.6     -12.0           5.5       2.3        1.8
- oil                 -4.0       -5.4          9.4        1.6        0.0
- non-oil             -6.3      -16.4          2.2        3.1        3.4
Exports                   -4.7      -3.1           8.4       2.1         0.8
Imports                  -11.2     -30.5          -2.3       3.2        2.5
Consumption               -4.3     -18.4           0.3       2.5        2.8
Investment              -15.0      -39.7         -3.1        3.6        3.7
National Income          -29.9     -13.6           0.2       4.7        6.6
Terms of Trade Index        44        50            47        54         68
(1984 - 100)
Current Act. Balance    -31.2      -14.8         -10.0      +1.2      +10.3
(percent of GDP)
82.       The sine qua non for meeting this financing requirement is
rescheduling of official bilateral debt (100 percent of principal and
interest) with the Paris Club over the period 1988-90 which would provide
about US$340 million of debt relief per annum. The conditions of
rescheduling, however, can affect the economic situation during the
critical years 1992-97, effectively determining whether the increased
resources during that period would end up only servicing the debt or
contributing to economic recovery as well. Specifically, when the 1987
rescheduling conditions are used (10 years, of which 4 are grace), a
substantial 'humps of debt service would result during 1992-97. Vith more
favorable conditions (15/5 years), the corresponding savings would amount
to betveen CFAF 20 to 30 billion annually. Since Gabon will need to rely
on additional commercial bank borrowing over the next seven to ten years,
the Government is considering no further debt rescheduling with the
conmmercial banks, which in any case would only yield about US$20 million of
relief per annum. Ideally, the Government would try to obtain commercial
loans of 12 to 15 year maturity, even at the expense of higher spreads.



- 28 -
83.       In addition to debt rescheduling, Gabon will have to secure
significant amounts of disbursements from new loans (about US$75 million in
1988. and US$200 million per annum in 1989 and 1990). The bulk of these
sums will have to be in the form of quick disbursing loans (about 70
percent) and the remainder in project loans. The corresponding annual
commitments would be abou. US$250 million. The proposed structural
adjustment loan, together with the co-financing from the African
Development Bank and possibly separate financing from the French Treasury
should be sufficient to meet Gabon's financial requirements in 1988.
Thereafter, however, even with additional loans of similar amounts, there
would remain a financing gap of US$80 million in 1989 and US$170 million ln
1990 which could possibly be met through additional recourse to IMF
resources, other funding agencies, and perhaps some commercial bank
borrowing (Table 2).
Table 2. Gross Financing Reguirements
(US$ millions)
1988           1989           1990
Gross Financing Requirement    688             714            733
to be met by:
Existing loans                160            113            s5
New loans                      73            189            211
Rescheduling                 379             333            308
IMF                           84              -             -15
Unidentified Gap               -7             79            171
84.       The Paris Club rescheduling of debt (based on 1014 assumption)
and disbursement of new loans, including the unidentified financing gap,
would result in a moderate but manageable debt service burden over the
medium-term. Central Government's external debt service (including
guaranteed debt) in relation to total Government revenues would average 18
percent during 1988-90; it would jump to an average of 44 percent during
1991-95 in the absence of further rescheduling, and subsequently fall to 22
percent during 1996-2000 (Table 3). The debt service burden for public and
publicly guaranteed debt would follow a similar path, rising from an
average of 12 percent of export revenue during 1988-90 to about 30 percent
in 1991-95 and falling to 18 percent by the end of the ceitury. Total
external public debt outstanding would peak at 79 percent of GDP in 1991
and decline to 29 percent of GDP by the year 20O.



- 29 -
Table 3. External Debt Service Ratios
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1995    2000
Central Government Debt
(as Z of Govt. revenue)
- before rescheduling      38     42     43     40      34      20      10
- after rescheduling        6     13     19     24      50      38      11
Public and Publicly
Guaranteed Debt
(as X of exports)
- before rescheduling      28     30     26     24      20      18      17
- after rescheduling        6      8     12     15      30      30      18
Public Debt Outstanding
and Disbursed
(as X of GDP)            51      56     66     72     79       66      29
85.       The adjustment program would allow the Government to consolidate
the restructuring of public finances it has already accomplished under the
stabilization program, by restructuring its long-term debt with external
creditors. It would also allow the Government to pay off its domestic
arrears in an orderly fashion, while implementing a greatly reduced but
well structured investment program. Total expenditure would average about
30 percent of GDP over the next three years, compared with 42 percent of
GDP in 1984-85. With careful control of expenditures in the future, the
expenditure ratio could decline steadily throughout the next decade to
about 20 percent of GDP by the year 2000 and Gabon's external public debt
could be reduced significantly as a percentage of GDP. Alternatively, the
Government could prudently allow public investment to grow more quickly
than the 7 percent per annum real growth included in the projections. In
addition, the Government would be able to make substantial deposits to the
financial reserve Fund for Future Generations (FIG) to be initiated under
this adjustment program (c.f. para 46). Only nominal deposits to the FFG
could be expected during the next two years, when the budget will still be
in deficit and in need of debt rescheduling. Starting in 1991, however, as
oil revenues are projected to increase substantially, the Government plans
to deposit 5 percent of total oil revenues into the Fund. The deposits
will increase to 10 percent of oil revenues starting in 1996. At this
rate, the FFG is projected to reach an accumulated balance of about US$900
million by the year 2000, equal to 12 percent of Gabon's GDP at that time.
As and when oil revenues decline in the next century, the FFG would provide
a steady stream of investment income to the Government, basically to
finance its own public investment program.
86.       This recovery scenario remains especially susceptible to changes
in international petroleum prices, however. A scenario based on lower oil
prices would lead to lower oil production and investment, lower government



- 30 -
revenues, result in slower GDP and national income growth, and necessitate
more dramatic cuts in public expenditures. While it is difficult to
estimate how far corresponding oil production would fall, an oil price 20
percent lower throughout the period would directly increase Gabon's
financing requirements by about US$200 million per annum starting in 1990.
This would exceed the financing Gabon could be expected to obtain, and
imports would have to contract by about another 15 percent. Alternatively,
if full financing were obtained, the external public debt service ratio
would rise to about 35 percent of exports in the mid-^990s (compared to 27
percent in the base-case scenario), and public debt outstanding would
remain at 70 to 80 percent of GDP until the end of the century. In the
event, some combination of lower imports and higher indebtedness would be
most likely to occur, thus making the adjustment process longer and more
difficult, in which case more drastic measures and stronger adjustments
would be required.
D. Benefits and Risks
87.       While difficult to implement, the proposed adjustment operation
is essential to reestablish the creditworthiness of the country and help
correct the path of economic growth. The SAL operation will lead to a more
efficient use of public resources, stimulate the non-oil productive
sectors, and achieve a more appropriate balance between the public and
private sectors. The particular benefits to accrue from the PE adjustment
measures are the reduced financial burden on Government and the domestic
banking system, the increased transparency of the Government's financial
relations with PEs, the rationalization of public resource allocation to
PEs, and the freeing of resources for more productive uses. PEs remaining
in the sector will be made more efficient through rehabilitation efforts,
cost cutting measures and labor reduction programs. Efforts at
streamlining the administrative procedures for private sector development
and at reducing distortions that impede private activities would assist in
improving the general investment climate and building investor confidence.
88.       This first structural adjustment operation intervenes in a
difficult period for Gabon, in light of the contraction of the economy due
to the fall in petroleum prices, compounded by the years of economic
mismanagement that have undermined the economy's resilience. Although
there are significant social consequences of the reforms, described in
section E below, the greatest resistance to reform is already coming from
the country's bureaucratic elite, especially in public enterprises, who are
directly and adversely affected by the cuts in government salaries, the
liquidation of enterprises, or are threatened by the audits of parastatal
organizations. The contrast is stark with the unbounded optimism of the
past. Not hitherto used to transparency or accountability, the leading
elite in public enterprises is understandably on the defensive, resisting
the reform program proposed by the Government and there is the risk that
this may weaken Government resolve to apply stringent measures. They argue
that the reforms already instituted are sufficient to carry the country
through 1988-89, and that the reform of public enterprises should be
stretched over several years. The elite's position was somewhat



- 31 -
strengthened in 1987, when oil prices turned out to be better than
anticipated. However, further immediate improvements in oil prices are
unlikely. In fact, oil prices are likely to weaken somewhat during 1988.
The Government advocates making sacrifices now to correct the path of the
economy in the future, and recognizes that it needs to act with speed,
especially during 1988 in order to take full advantage of the weight of the
crisis to introduce the reform measures.
89.       Several elements, however, reduce this risk.  First, the country
has had a stable Government over the last 20 years (same President, Prime
Minister, and principal ministers). It is the same Government that was
able to weather the crisis of 1977-78, when austerity measures were
successfully introduced despite their unpopularity. Second, the Government
has demonstrated flexibility and willingness to take difficult and
unpopular decisions during 1987 such as substantial cuts in the salaries of
public servants and public enterprises, liquidating PEs, and subjecting all
major PEs to diagnostic audits. Third, the Government has built a
consensus for reform which is creating its own momentum for further
reforms.
E. Social Impacts
90.       Gabon's structural adjustment program poses a difficult challenge
of how to combine growth with equity. In this connection a primary medium
term goal is to generate GDP growth rates in excess of population growth.
The basic problem is that past growth has been concentrated in enclave
sectors with few links to the rest of the economy. The economic rents from
oil exports have by and large benefitted an increasing public sector
concentrated in the urban centers which contain about half the active labor
force. Agricultural and forestry have declined due to policies leading to
Increasing non-competitiveness in a high cost economy. As oil output and
prices are expected to increase, it will be possible to reach 1985 real GDP
levels by 1991; while consumption per capita is not expected to rise over
the medium term. Yet the distribution of this income will not
automatically produce a wide distribution of benefits. What is required is
a fundamental change in the structure of production based on small and
medium scale agriculture, forestry and eventually manufacturing.
Government policies and programs are aimed at this structural change.
However, compared to the narrowly-based lower growth of the oil economy,
the widely-based higher growth in the non-oil economy is not expected to
materialize before the early 19909. This restructuring of the economy will
have to be accompanied by major improvements in health, education and rural
infrastructure in order to enable the lower income groups to fully
participate in the benefits of growth. The requirement is to formulate a
human resource strategy involving clear delineation of priorities,
specifically translated into programs to increase the capacity and
efficiency of delivery systems.
91.       The immediate problem is to absorb the decline in employment and
real incomes required in the bloated public sector, in order to
increase the efficiency of reduced public expenditures as well as make a



- 32 -
start on directing incentives and income towards non oil tradable sectors.
The large number of expatriates in the modern sector will be reduced as
employment opportunities diminish.
92.       For the most vulnerable low income groups, both urban and rural,
the Government's structural adjustment program makes specific provision to
minimize spending cuts for education and health in a period of sharply
reduced budgetary outlays and to give priority to primary education and
health care. Further, working groups have been established in education
and health with a mandate to prepare sectoral diagnosis and strategies.
Draft statements of human resource policy with priorities and
program/budget implications will be incorporated in the 1989 budget law and
3-year rolling investment program.
93.       With respect to public employees, both in the civil service and
public enterprises, reduction in real wages from currently high levels will
take place in the course of the adjustment process. For those who will
lose their jobs, Government has recognized the need for compensatory
measures to ease the transition until private sector employment grows, as
follows:
(a) Compensatory severance pay schemes will be prepared as part of
the action plans following diagnostic results of audited PEs;
(b) With regard to existing mechanisms to promote small and medium
scale enterprises, including a guarantee fund, Government is
Introducing a crash program to redirect their attention to the
development of programs specifically targeted to providing
assistance to departing public servants; and
(c) Government intends by second tranche release to set up a credit
and training scheme for those leaving the public sector to enable
them to set up small businesses.
94.       The Government recognizes that despite the above actions, the
implementation of the adjustment program may well have unforeseen adverse
impacts on vulnerable lower income groups. It will closely monitor the
impact of its adjustment program with a view to adjusting the above
measures and introducing further transitory arrangements if required. To
assist it in this area, the Government is requesting participation in the
World Bank/UNDP AfDB project on the Social Dimensions of Adjustment.
F. FinancinR
95.       The proposed Loan of US$50 million equivalent could finance about
6 percent of Gabon's merchandise imports during 1988 and meet about 7
percent of the country's gross external capital requirements that year.
The loan amount could cover 10 percent of the Government's gross external
financing requirements in the 1988 budget. The loan would be for 13 years,
including 4 years of grace at the Bank's variable rate. The proposed loan
will be disbursed in two tranches, the first of which is US$20 million
which will be available upon loan effectiveness. The loan is expected to



- 33 -
be fully disbursed within 12 months of loan effectiveness. The AfDB will
;ontribute an amount equivalent to the Bank loan to cofinance the
structural adjustment program.
G. Disbursement, Administration and Procurement
96.       Prior action by Government has been taken in the following areas:
(a) major reductions in the public investment program in the 1987
budget (70 percent) and the 1988 budget (13 percent);
(b) substantial reduction in the civil service wage bill for the 1987
budget (10 percent) and the 1988 budget (6 percent);
tc) reductions of available credit to the banking system;
(d) debt rescheduling with the Paris Club (January 1987) and London
Club (April 1987);
se) reductions of subsidies to consumers and public enterprises;
(f) starting diagnostic audits to reform the 30 major PE9;
(g) approval of the three-year rolling investment plan for 1988-90
(lol programme);
(h)  elimination of extra-budgetary expenditures;
Mi)  establishing the "Comission de Gestion Chargee de la
Res..ructuration de l'Economie et de l'Assainissement des Finances
Publiqueso;
(j) closurelliquidationlprivatization of nine poor performing Pgs;
(k)  agreement on a list of goods for which commercial margins and
price controls are to be eliminated by April 1988;
(1) Governmetit commitment not to start new PEs during the crisis
period, except in cases associated with the restructuring of
existing enterprises;
(m) Government directive fixing a ceiling on PE employment at end
1987 level;
(n) tabulation of the cross-debts between PEs and with the State as
of end 1987 and evaluation of the impact on the private sector;
and
(o) outlining an action plan for settlement of acknowledged arrears
among PEs and with the State.



- 34 -
97.       Conditions For Release of Second Tranche
The second tranche will be released following a review Indicating
that satisfactory progress has been made in the program as a whole, and in
the following measures in particular:
(a) Adoption by Gcvernment of final drafts of the new Labor Code,
Investment Code and Participation Code;
(b) Removal of commercial margins on imported goods and price
controls or. locally produced goods, except for a limited number
of socially impertant goods;
(c) Suspension of quantitative import restrictions on goods
(certificats de carence et contingentements) and the simultaneous
adjustment of import taxes on said goods, except for a limited
number of goods determined in agreement with the Bank.
(d) Removal of turn-over tax on exports (except for natural
resources);
(e) Increasing Government budgetary allocations to pay for
electricity, water, transport, and telecommunications, after
consultation with suppliers, so as to take into account the
actual costs of use by the Government and to avoid new arrears on
payments for said services;
(f) Satisfactory progress on measures to reform PEs, includings
reduction in the 1988 wage bill by a minimum average of 15
percent compared to end 1986, Government adoption of programs to
reform at least 22 PEs, action plans for program implementation,
concluding the performance contract between the Government and
Air Gabon, negotiations between the State and OCTRA and SEEG to
conclude performance contracts in 1989, and settlement during
1988 of 20 percent of the net amount of cross-debts between PEs
and with the State as of end 1987;
(g) Adoption by Government of measures to improve the competitiveness
of Gabon's timber exports based on an analysis of all elements
determining timber prices;
(h) Establishing a financing facility to help reorient released
Government employees; and
(i) Examining the system of mercuriales and taking a satisfactory
decision.
98.       Monitoring and Auditing.  The Commission de la Gestion and its
technical secretariat (para 32) will lead the implementation of the SAL
program.  Following the disbursement of the first tranche of the proposed
loan, the Commission will submit to the Bank a report evaluating progress



. 35 -
made in implementation. This report will serve as a basis for the release
of the second tranche. The Commission will submit to the Bank a final
report on the program's implementation upon full disbursement of the loan.
An audit report, conforming to internationally accepted standards and
prepared by auditors approved by the Bank, will be submitted within six
months after the close of each fiscal year.
99.       Disbursement.  The Ioan will reimburse the foreign exchange cost
of eligible imports (including all imports except luxury goods, defense
items, and refined oil products). Disbursement would be facilitated by the
establishment of a US$5.0 million equivalent Special Account in the central
bank (BEAC). Bank financing of imports of foodstuffs will be limited to an
agregate amount equivalent to not more than US$15.0 million. The Ministry
of Finance will be responsible for collecting the supporting documentation
(copy of the invoices and evidence of shipment and of payment) and for
preparing withdrawal applications. Disbursements would be against
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for eligible contracts valued at
US$500,000 or less. The supporting documentation for these would be
retained by the Ministry of Finance and would be made available to Bank
st&ff during supervision and audited annually by independent auditors. The
nature and the origin of goods as well as the payment date will be
indicated on the SOEs. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for
US$40,000 equivalent or less would not be eligible for financing out of the
loan proceeds. All other disbursements ill be made against full
documentation submitted to the Bank. The minimum withdrawal application
size will be US$1.0 million equivalent.
100.      Procurement.  Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing. Imports by private entities would be in accordance
with normal commercial practices, which are acceptable. For public sector
imports, procurement would be made through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines for contracts of US$2.0 million
equivalent or more. Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to
cost less than US$2.0 million equivalent each would be awarded on the basis
of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser which were evaluated
by the appraisal mission and were found to be satisfactory to the Bank.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
101.      Between 1959 and 1974 the Bank made seven loans to Gabon in the
mining, highways, water supply and education sectors for a total of US$69.3
million. The last operation, an education loan for US$5 million was signed
in 1974 and closed in 1983. In 1977, Gabon graduated from Bank lending and
has now repaid all but US$9.45 million of its IBRD borrowing. Since 1977,
our operations consisting of technical assistance have been undertaken on
the same basis as in other oil-rich countries whose per capita GNP has
taken them over the Bank's graduation level. In addition, the Bank is the
executing agency for a UNDP/Government co-financed technical assistance
project designed to help the Government select and evaluate viable
investment projects in non-oil sectors.



- 36 -
102.      Relations between the Bank and Gabon over the past decade have
been difficult. The authorities were unhappy with the decision to graduate
Gabon from IBRD lending and repeatedly requested the Bank to reconsider.
They also felt that the one year non-reimbursable technical assistance they
were receiving from the Bank was insufficient and were particularly
disappointed at the Bank's position on the Transgabon railway project. The
Bank-administered technical assistance project has had a difficult start,
partly because of difficulty in filling the resident expert posts. The
project is now running well and considerable collaborative effort from the
project's resident experts went into preparing the structural adjustment
program.
103.      Resumption of lending.  On the basis of current data, per capita
GNP in Gabon, after reaching a peak of US$4000 in 1980, began to decline,
reaching US$2,700 in 1985. It is projected to reach US$2500 in 1988, well
below Bank lending threshold. It is expected to increase slowly
thereafter, surpassing US$3000 only in the 19909. Given the urgency of
initiating structural measures, it was agreed that the Bank should strongly
support these measures and that lending should be resumed with this
proposed loan in support of Gabon's structural adjustment program. Further
lending would be contingent upon satisfactory progress in implementing this
adjustment program.
104.      Resumption of lending to Gabon will allow the Bank to respond to
the Government's present openness to reform in the face of the current
tight domestic financial situation to help: (a) lay the groundwork for a
basic repositioning of the Gabonese economy toward the non-oil productive
sectors, and (b) introduce a substantially greater degree of rigor in the
management of public resources. Our objective would be to help reestablish
Gabon's creditworthiness notwithstanding the sharp drop in oil revenues,
and to steer investments towards increasing domestic productivity in the
non-oil sectors, with the oil revenues being managed so as to minimize
destabilizing cyclical fluctuations.
105.      The keystone in this strategy would be a structural ad1ustiient
loan to support the Government's program as described above (Part II) and
summarized in the policy matrix (Annex IV). The success of this program
hinges upon the ability of the non-oil sectors to sustain growth and
increase exports and the petroleum sector to maintain output at levels
similar to those obtained in recent years. It is also dependent on the
determination of the authorities to implement the stabilization program as
agreed with the IMP.
106.      IFC operations.  The first operation in Gabon was presented to
the Board in November 1987 for US$4 million equivalent to finance Soci4td
de Placages d'Essassa. IFC's contribution represents 30 percent of the
cost of the project to construct an okoume peeled veneer plant with an
annual capacity of 26,400 m3.



- 37 -
PART V - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
107.      The SAL program has been prepared in consultation with the IMF,
and there has been close collaboration between IBRD and Fund staff, both in
Washington and during missions in Libreville. Bank staff assisted in the
elaboration and in the review of the Standby program, particularly on
investment programming, national accounts and the parapublic sector reform.
IBRD-managed technical assistance has provided technical analysis for
several elements of the IMF program. The Government also recognizes that
continued stabilization is a pre-requisite for the success of its
structural adjustment program and that the Fund program and the proposed
SAL are interrelated and complementary. This close collaboration between
the IW and the Bank, with full Government support, will continue in the
future.
108.      Coordination with other donors involved in the financing of
Gabon's adjustment efforts and related technical assistance is close, in
particular with France, Canada, the European Community (EC), the African
Development Bank and UNDP.  France is the major donor in Gabon and is
providing assistance to institutional reforms and structural adjustment
efforts. AfDB has a substantial financial assistance program to Gabon and
vill match the Bank's contribution in cofinancing the proposed SAL
operation. AfDB has also participated in, and contributed substantially to
the preparation of the Program. All major donors, including those not yet
active in Gabon, have been fully briefed by Bank missions on this operation
and on the structural adjustment program of the Government as a whole.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
109.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
March 21, 1988
Washington, D.C.



-38-
sue-sos   WSalI.. die.)   3  lag    son     Il"    s34480Iq
ternSimlePede ge             10.0   30.0   10.0   10.0   10.    10W1S80                                6     05      -.
spsusse saloonl I.e5.1                       U.S 40    .      0.4   01.4               .       .
spoor"ms                    1.8    31.      1*      0 .&    0.1    10..                      *
ZudmmU .n"  e                10.    491.1   S1.0   so.?   10.    U0. .4
Uumg.beu."0.                           ..      ..    U.I      4.6  -10.1               .       .
Prigeto eP @06            49.1A     ..e    0..   01.1    8.4.    01.1
t.e.i EupmudItuuein  10.1   10.$    UA.   10.1   00.    10.1                   .      .
O1011 Uutm1.1   108                       1.4     1.    1.         5.                .      .
PrigetIs Cmums%l.        819     4.0.1    1 0 .4   10.0   8.0..                            .
Or u moS"  $wsem            11.4   15.0   18.1   45.9   10.0   1093.                        04      01      1.       1.
5-r Psisesbaes Lemas         0.0   40.0   -U.0 ..4 10.    0.8    01.4                .        .    44     111       1.
101m01 Il  0m,lu             10.0O       .41.    0.0    44.9   41.9    19.8            .       .
Orema Plalseml hUla.            ..     0.    40.8   10.0    UA.    1.8                   .      .
Sim   ama  Peedug    01.40   0.A0  90.0  40.00 301.0*  911.40                 1.40    8."    1.40    0.40     -.1
Term of 1usd. Mie.tas         .       .       .       .      .        .               .
5-rn bUm,S Aedig          101.   410.0;  00.0;  030.0  91.0 i      O               6.0    8.A0    .8.0    0.15   -4.1,0
* 10)-..-----        -Id~leffee nate" (Sp.)
C. Prig. ladisa               1410    140    am0    19t"    140    3900            1905-U  3918-0 10-ft   190         1906
am,Ptlg.. (MF 04)         10.-0   S110.   4145.0  14.1  386.1       ...4    35.    15.0    1.4
Oheeame Prics. (In6an)        10.0  1110.5   10.    144.    U0.9        .               .1    158     1.1     1.
Sol Isis 00p eOdlee,r         10.    10.   149.8   100*   31.    1l.1                  8.0.0   0    10.        1.1    -1.
- .    -              -            b~~~~~~~~oes. p a ec.I.luept does
Lemo atmi a..eg
PrIm 1al. temsh Saco"
2asm t 3lMgS004sm .*
buplee, ("eM) IeamP
oes lpeem. 9ma lg  alpa             49.8           18.1          -03.1
no(eeled   uea)                       .41.1                         1.
hOkw bug. las-                         -       -       -
Ta-t



3116    9336   316     -       -       1g3     (g" EUS _"a  ptt
*610    Om     "a    SW        an      "BP     C    w-a  A* -II*)e_
...~~----     ------ --                    r31   9.10   PI*g    Wm3   *glee   OVM    Ms? OSt  "' An see as
WmS   wOO   w133    won3    W         WItSB           SUV.JSW -t*  s*lt'Am
to      Mt     as      us      w      tm                Om,"  O_.._q.s
WI      at1    US1   31              ont m    (    t     '_ .t  _ _
teeet  t  S- ti_
t rw     t     tt       ts *- tl  1   4r -t   *-1"  _vo
938    V's    *,I    *Is    PS          8
1319-   39     pt    P         33.1  3*Is~dn
a              .       b      n91*    lo.        (         *Sintt * )
as    ft  w ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ *s   e
VS O       36.              93      3            gSaIDem   Poe St   UU
*  0   0       P       0       0I- _N
mlP3       M.   M.-  "13-                     (fIf34,    1dO 
316     3       6      8                           t-o* --tI '3o
*    ne        e.      .-  t3 1- -111-    _ 14  ~             5C
O  O  O   O       O       O~~~~~OOJ mt-*so lefol
4364I33 MS  ""ItoI
ant                P at1           9-           0ISSWW33 OUOL-
o   _wt-    an                 OsP 13W" 3  W
so.    M       t               Wp-    m- Mo,      40         _ 
oe     n        n      tO       t      "                     tt
tD    31  tOt  "9            ml    mStl                     s43ee*
3     61 9-   P 61.    1W     0      St"                            Wm
PS1- t-oSP Wt S.
rue 91     $10                     OKb*3  0  ~ d      ~       ~4
t3   t3t  P9           am     $M       0wt         3 1       -
6339ev.g  ad.P 1W3g-                 .Zt-           -.    .-
n       M      1M    _ 1          1          *0
36138   33818  3W                 36361~~$    gm  an    Gm            a  gm             3    gesp-ugq   m
6135    398   3113                ~~~~~~wI  V0661ta       Im      ol       ls             Po In93 9epmw 
36    I  S   611not 1   SI03   ,g                   _ _ O           I
t nt    *Ign   WNS tn                                                lo _
WeTS                                            was            tOt t9 *1.M  01                       - t_           t
39lut 61   93'1  vP'U1                         00     0.0  coW                               9333 t P# *9" 
1631    39    so311                        3*3S1  OWlT  are"*  3
PS*UP   319331 0 SILl            . 3we"   w3Md  60                                           itS a-     Io 5PMV
tia  c   at te,$               t                   t                    A^
..  -    --~~~~~~~~~ -   - - -                                  -    -
W3631    -m t311                                g . * 1    So.*    36.1                        au    uwi" sesseuS9 I S
'(am    S ut,.) SO"s IO-tO  '(03 * ') 
WM ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~-O    *-tm "'SU    40-" 00-    event                                 .   "~^- 
WU    stlo~~~~~~~~t also            op" *   0    * O-"tt "s 
-- ts _t gt t A*tt t1                           w.gm   ors  9-e                                                g ^I-6
tu       UGa 08 W*-u-                     WU   -WA   rOl    -1                                      it *-  _t   _Imw
"at    M-_   VW OU.*.    *-s    oat   *                  t -nt                 sat *-t *-  *-WA I.t
n-" t     31d       A-u   n        01 *  *-  *-  t                             *        -
is a      t         t-t
too                                                                        h
* -t ttat_t *S~6



Is  a  1q. m    *. s *
yt- eqsy t~. *qm
whot~~~~~~~~  P-n  *   At- t  -    Ztt      tg
*-  "Ot   0-tt   u's   Wm   erg              n P" *-wo 9 io
al       nu   '*s   u ut   I"s     W
to 3    we    Gos      we     el   owe                 dwh t p. am 
*- 5   ISo55   we:   wa    ms 0dUEUgA5mO 0 _L4"   t.
*- -tS  W-Vt  P.5    WIA P  Iv *                         t
*-     msn   arot       s      re            *WL P 1* _     .
=39,   WM CO-    "01  ft-0   o"-             *00*"8 mo'
1*,- tt-%         art b-   t      wet             Pe            *  l"  
^-  nvo   rat    0.1   Wst   sol               10410 p *   "   am 't
*-~~~~~~~~~~~W Li- SEWA P t' OqW"St
"01   o mn  1oa o ea
*-     all  3a's    u's    WI             IL 0-    * " u   i6
Wi I                          ...3 505    p*  1040A P S " VWI
or      ..    ..      *       *s-      *         s s   s as  0 i ts
vs  et   *  a  a       s       1    e        "W       Ms    mu  _
Sa   S     -      u on                   OSp                                                alak-10m5 LI"a
ee0                0      at     0                              ..                         LiP'            "H am
355    3M  IS  Ut    55  Pt  Is  It  IS M-                         o gft W-
OS     Is     In 0           13                        *.- 51  Ut                _ 55
us s .    U t    P    u- n-                                   -                        $s I
33  515    PS   a~St                                                               am5-  0- 55-    5so
05   O5        P       1      OW      31       .   *.       0-      5-     5-   O-    t 1              q
-- Is         a #eIs                        a*-            ow       '     0         m-    n
s       s      as    us       ..     .       -       -      *-        *-m @ n               l_ti
8*5          S     -      lI      WI             s      Is      P*-    Is5    US-   LiPWO|  LI5m
*-0oi                         m n     a     SEWsn *-     n-                         sn  tp e
'' g5 -l   em9O  O"m~gi 343 tlgg  gg-'                        ew-Sg  Own  - 
I..-    Is     .        .     ..      . ...  ..                     ..* I.. Is..                           .* 
Mt    MI a                           st           Mt    not   016 t-            M          son  GOP" "s P"
we    u.    Is..          ..           (p~"wem) psigdsggsi
.*-     35.3    ..           .               we    ale    we *-                                              die d"SOp.
t       s*e-            t   .                      *- o,    se           o. *-, *i                                " **1'e
4.  30      d...oe                                le    p       ..     ..      ..                  amisogeq itsoo
*-~   Us.                                    Is.   *-.    WO          w        -b-           mn* w**  t9S   34
_--                           -                --          -      -     -      -@*z l|_
t- @ -~~~~~~~~114   0 _v0   Wo                                                     -1_0 0 4 -0  ovoso%
- ea    m - os    "o *      *f-M             tO1s    uMT     Mt    an    an *-       s               Lfl) *-      'I
*C-. - ) *- 50   *-                                    so *-   *       -
5    i    ..           ..       .r     .      ..      ..1m    ..     ..     .          .m              ,
U ~      ~       1a0                           - t-       O*    - *                                q
loe      See
t    t_           -     _#1       tl~~~~~~~~Oil      



- 41 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
GABONESE REPUBLTC
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Last operation signed in 1974 and closed in 1983. No operation since.
B. Statement of IPC Tnvestments
GABONESE REPUBLIC
SOCIETE DE PLACAGES D'ESSASSA (SPE)
SUMMARY OF IFS INVESTMENTS
(As of February 1988)
Original Gross Commitment   Undisbursed
Type of   ------US$ Million -----       Including
Fiscal Year    Obligor   BuJiness  Loan       Equity    Total  Participation
1988           SPE     Okoume       4          -        4          -*
logs
(No prior investments in Gabon)
* Uncomitted as of February 22, 1988



- 42 -                           Annex III
Pape 1 of 2
GABONESE BEPIJBLIC
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLJEENARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Time Table of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the program: 11 months
(b)  Appraisal missions Oct/Nov 1987
(c) Completion of negotiations: March 1988
(d)  Planned date of effectivenesst May 1988
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to Nov 30, 1988, or other agreed date, the Bank vill review the
government's progress In implementing the structural adjustment program.
Section III - Special Conditions
Effectiveness of the loan, which will permit use of the first tranche of
US$20 million equivalent is subject to no special conditions.
Release of the second tranche of US$30 million equivalent of the loan will
be contingent upon satisfactory progress made by the Government in carrying
out the adjustment program; in particular the following actions will have
been taken:
(a)  Approval by Council of Ministers of final drafts of the new Labor
Code, Investment Code and Participation Code;
(b)  Removal of commercial margins on Imported goods and price
controls on locally produced goods, except for a lImited number
of socially important goods;
(c) Suspension of quantitative restrictions on imported goods, and
simultaneous adjustment of import taxes on said goods, except for
a limited number of goods determined in agreement with the Bank;
(d)  Removal of turn over tax on exports (except for natural
resources);
(e) Determining Government budgetary allocations to pay for
electricity, water, transport and telecomunications after
consultation with the suppliers to take into account the actual
costs of use by the State for such services and to avoid new
arrears for payments related to said services;
(f)  Satisfactory progress on measures to reform PCs, includings
reducing the 1988 wage bill by a minimum average of 15 percent
compared to end 1986; Government adoption of programs to reform
at least 22 PEs and preparation of action plan for program
implementation; concluding the performance contract between the
Government and Air Gabon; negotiations between the State and
OCTRA and SENG to conclude performance contracts in 1989; and
settlement during 1988 of 20 percent of cross-debts between P8s
and with the State as of end 1987;



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(s) Decisions by the Council of Ministers on measures to improve the
competitiveness of Gabon's timber exports based on an analysis of
all elements determining timber pricest
(h) Establishing a financing facility to help reorient released
Government employees, and reinforcing relevant existing
institutions, including the Ponds d'Aide et de Garantie; and
(i) Decisions by the Government on the system of indicative prices
for food products (Mercuriales).



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 26
GABONESE REPUBLIC
DECLARATION OF DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
IN THE CONTEXT OF
A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
March 10, 1988



- 45 -
ANNEX TV
Page 2 of 26
GABONESE REPUBLIC
DECLARATION OF DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
IN THE CONTEXT OF A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
INTRODUCTION .................                    ****    3
1.         THE PRESENT SITUATION     .      ......            ......    4
-.1.      Institutional Constraints      .....                  .      4
1.2.      Medium-Term Allocation of Government Resources ...........   5
2.        POLICIES.........................   5
2.1.      THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICY IN THE STRICT SENSE .....   6
2.1.1.     Salaries and structural adjustment .......................  6
2.1.2.    Reform of incentives and promotion of the
productive sector.e. ..........   .     .     .        7
2.2.      MEDIUM-TERK MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC RESOURCES      . .         10
2.2.1.    The Mechanism for Stabilization of Budgetary Allocations.  11
2.2.2.    Expenditure Prograumming        ...............  11
2.2.3.    Management of the Government Investment Budget ...........  12
2.2.4.    Improving Management of the Civil Service         . .    13
2.3.      THS PARAPUBLIC SECTOR . ... .......................  13
2.3.1.    Monitoring and Tn     stitutional Setting ..... et..*# ......g...  . 14
2.3.2.    Rationalization of the Size of the Sector ................  15
2.3.3.    Pinancial Discipline and Restructuring ...................  17
2.3.4.     Improvement of Management and Rehabilitation ..............  19
2.4.       SECTORAL  POLICIES ....................................... .  19
2.4.1.    Agriculture ..............................................  20
2.4.1.     Forestry ............................................  23
2.4.3.    Transportation .......................................... .  23
3    .    ACTION IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS ................. ..... .....  24
4.        MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAM ...........................       25
ANNEXES: TABLES
March 10, 1988



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 26
INTRODUCTION
The Gabonese economy has in recent years been heavily dependent on
petroleum, whether directly, through the activity of the petroleum
companies, or indirectly through government expenditure made possible by
the revenue from petroleum.
Since early 1986, Gabon, like other petroleum producers, has suffered
severely from the collapse of petroleum prices and the decline of the U.S.
dollar. Government revenue from the petroleum sector dropped from CFAF 400
billion in 1985 to an estimated CFAF 72 billion in 1987. Since then, the
decline of the dollar has not been offset by a recovery in the dollar price
of petroleum, and there is no reason to think that petroleum revenues will
increase significantly in the near future.
In response to this new situation, in March 1986 the Government introduced
measures to reduce the budget and initiated preparation of a stabilization
program with the International Monetary Funtd'and the World Bank. The
objective of the program is to reduce domestic demand significantly by
decreasing consumption and public investment in line with the reduction in
petroleum resources.
On the basis of this stabilization program, a two-year stand-by arrangement
with the IMF was signed on December 22, 1986, in an amount of SDR 98.7
million (about CEAF 35 billion). This agreement paved the way for debt
rescheduling negotiations, culminating in agreements with the Paris Club
(January 21, 1987) and London Club (April 30, 1987). In addition, the CCCE
agreed to provide cofinancing of CFAF 11.5 billion on February 27, 1987.
The program with the IMF includes the following budgetary and monetary
measuress
- a reduction of current expenditures from more than CFAF 240 billion to
less than CPAY 200 billion, and a reduction of investment expenditure
from ClAP 400 billion in 1985 to CFAF 80 billion in 1988;
- a corresponding reduction of more than 102 in civil service salaries,
effective November 1986;
- a limit on domestic credit, including credit to Government, through a 9S
reduction over two years in the net external assets of the banking system;
a CFAF 190 billion ceiling in 1987 on new external commitments; and a ban
on all external commitments or drawings with maturities of less than one
year, except for ordinary commercial credits.
This program includes other provisions which, because of their economic
scope, are in effect structural adjustment measures;
(a) review of the economy-wide salary structure, with implementation in
July 1987 of the initial salary reduction measures in the parapublic
sector;



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 26
(b) reduction of consumer subsidies (flour, sugar, vegetable oil and
petroleum);
(c) encouragement of productive activities (in particular, through price
policy);
(d) implementation of reforms in the public enterprise sector (including
privatization or liquidation of six enterprises already identified)
and establishment of a more efficient institutional framework;
(e) tighter management of public investment (Program-Law) and the
elimination of extrabudgetary expenditures.
Furthermore, given the unpredictable nature of oil prices in the medium
term and the excessive dependence of the economy and Government revenues on
these prices, the Government intends to restructure the economy by
promoting the non-oil productive sectors. Consequently, the Government
approached the World Bank for assistance in formulating an adjustment
program, and discussions led to the following conclusions:
-    the private non-oil productive sector, which is crucial to future
economic development, is uncompetitive because of its high cost
structure, particularly salaries;
-    petroleum revenues have financed the high salary levels in the oil
sector, the Civil Service, and particularly in the parapublic sector.
Salaries in the rest of the economy have kept pace with these three
sectors. Reduction of salaries has become a key element in the
adjustment program.
In view of this situation and given the constraints imposed by the monetary
union to which Gabon belongs, the Government adopted a two-pronged
approach:
-    increases in import duties and taxes, and the possible introduction of
export subsidies, the former financing the latter;
-    adjustment of macro variables (a reduction in public investment, and
salary cuts) which should stimulate the tradables sectors.
The measures taken by Government in response to the decline in oil revenues
initiated the first phase of the adjustment process.
1.    THE PRESENT SITUATION
1.1. Institutional Constraints
The measures already implemented under the stabilization program with the
IMF represent a significant drop in domestic absorption. These measures
include a 10.4Z cut in the salaries of civil servants and a reduction in
public investments to one fourth of its previous level (solely affecting



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 26
the nonproductive sectors). These measures were intended, first, to induce
a general reduction in salary levels, and second, to direct resources that
were previously employed in the nontradable sector (e.g., construction)
toward the tradable sector (agriculture and related activities, SMEs,
etc.). The process undertaken with IMP support is thus an important step
in reorienting the Gabonese economy toward the productive sectors.
However, it is important to note that there exist in Gabon substantial
institutional constraints that may impede the reallocation of factors to
the productive sectors. These constraints include: (a) inflexibility in
setting salaries, due partly to social aspects and partly to the size of
the parastatal and service sectors in the labor market; (b) disparities in
tariff rates and the exemptions under the Investment Code have contributed
to a rigidity in resource allocation and excessive costs and prices,
hampering the competitiveness of the economy; and (c) subsidized services
and import duties have protected the parapublic sector, enabling it to pay
high salaries and maintain excessive staffing.
In the agricultural sector, in particular, the constraints includes (a) for
coffee and cocoa, disruptions in the marketing system in the past (before
the introduction of the Stabilization Fund) and lack of training and
extension; (b) administered prices for food crops which do not always
account for producers' costs and real income needs, (c) serious lack of
appropriate research and effective extension and training; (d) inadequate
training; (e) poor conditions of feeder and rural roads; (f) difficult
living conditions in the interior; (g) administrative formalities and
delays that hamper the creation and development of private enterprises; and
(h) labor regulations that are ill-adapted to present circumstances.
1.2. Medium-Term Allocation of Government Resources
The boom in petroleum revenues, followed by their sudden disappearance, had
a negative effect not only on economic growth but also on the way public
resources have been used. The high level of petroleum resources led to
massive investment expenditures. These expenditures have far outs-:ripped
the economy's absorptive and managerial capacity, leading to cost inflation
and jeopardizing the profitability of investments and the competitiveness
of the non-oil sector. Better programming of government expenditure thus
seems indispensablet it must be based on systematic budgeting which will
permit control of expenditure and improve fiscal management.
2. POLICIES
Against this background, the Government of Gabon envisages a program of
action in six areas:
- a policy of structural adjustment in the strict sense, including
measures to enhance competition;
- medium-term management of government resources;



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 26
- management of the parapublic sector;
- development of productive sectors, particularly agriculture and
forestry;
- transportation and road infrastructure;
- social sectors.
Specific programs with a schedule of policy actions to be implemented have
been identified for each of these areas.
2.1. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT POLICY IN THE STRICT SENSE
The Government's structural adjustment policy seeks to restore healthy
competition, support producers particularly in agriculture, and abolish
regulatory constraints. The policy also includes concerted action in the
labor market to reduce wages and salaries, improve labor mobility and
Increase productivity. The objective of the wage and labor market policies
is to bring about a devaluation of the real exchange rate. Through
sector-specific actions on government expenditure, wages and prices, the
structural adjustment program seeks to shift factors of production from the
nontradables sectors, particularly construction and public works, toward
the tradables sectors.
2.1.1. Salaries and structural adiustment
The high level of costs in the Gabonese economy, whether due to salary
levels or to the high costs of services, is a serious impediment to the
growth of economic activity in the non-oil productive sectors. It is
therefore necessary to take measures that will place downward pressure on
the cost structure.
2.1.1.1. As regards public finance, the Government has already taken two
significant measures under the IMF program that would lead to reductions in
the cost of nontradable goods relative to tradables:
1.   in November 1986, a 10.42 reduction in civil servants' salaries,
supplemented by other measures that would reduce wages and salaries by
an overall average of 15t.  Wages and salaries would stabilize at this
1avel in 1989.
2.   sharp reduction in investment expenditure, from CFAF 393
billion in 1985 to around CPAP 70 billion in 1987 1/ , which would
1/ The higher allocation is for 91.7 billion, but the ClAP 32.5 billion
earmarked for OCTRA is essentially to cover arrears.



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 26
have a direct impact on the prices of nontradable goods and lead to a
reduction in overall demand.
A major concern of Government is to reduce the administrative, economic and
other obstacles limiting the effectiveness of these measures on the economy
as a whole, and in particular on the private sector.
2.1.1.2. For this reason, the Government intends to implement the measures
described below:
(a) Reduction in Parapublic Sector Salaries. Because of monopolies and
protection, public enterprises contribute significantly to the high
cost of the economy; as a result, the Government intends to reduce
salaries in this sector in two stagess
- Between March and November 1988, salary and payroll cuts,
particularly sharper at higher, scales will be on average at least
equivalent to those in the public service.
- In accordance with the results of the diagnostic studies, the
rehabilitation plans adopted, and the wages set in January 1988,
supplementary measures will be decided by the end of 1988 (for
implementation in 1989) regarding salary rates, adjustment o0 the
staffing level, and management structure in each enterprise.
(b) Reduction in Private Sector Salaries. With the compression of demand
resulting from cuts in the investment budget, salaries in the private
sector will be strongly influenced by the measures adopted in the
public and parapublic sectors. However, the reduction in public
investments may not be sufficient to bring about adequate reductions
in the salary levels of the private sector. To facilitate the
adjustment supplementary measures will be needed:
- The Government intends to liberalize trade in order to create
greater competition thereby producing downward pressures on salaries
in the private sector.
- During the first six months of the program, in addition, wage and
labor legislation and regulations will be amended and new
enforcement procedures adopted, in order to encourage:
* more piece work;
stricter and easily enforceable sanctions against absenteeism
(automatic loss of wages, suspension, etc.);
* def#nition of the status of apprentices and pre-job trainees.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 26
2.1.2. Reform of Incentives and Promotion of the Productive Sector.
The fall in oil revenues and the ensuing economic recession revealed the
structural weaknesses in the Gabonese productive sector. In the industrial
sector in particular, the policy of import substitution resulted in the
protection of domestically produced goods through measures such as the
Investment Code, tax exemptions, high custom duties, quantitative
restrictions on imports, import and marketing monopolies, and price
controls. This high level of protection insulated enterprises from market
forces, maintaining high cost and wage levels without encouraging
productivity gains. This policy proved extremely costly to Government and
consumers, and ultimately disastrous for economic growth. It favored the
establishment of overprotected activities with low value added. Because of
the small domestic market in Gabon, the development of competitive industry
requtres the expansion and opening of markets. In the long run,
productivity gains are likely to reduce costs and prices. Consequently,
the Government has decided to reorient its incentive structure to stimulate
competition through trade and reduce protectionism. In so doing, the
Government aims to promote the mobility of factors of production and
encourage the private sector.
2.1.2.1. The External Trade Regime.
The Government intends to eliminate import restrictions, which currently
affect about 30 products. These restrictions will be removed by September
1988, once the relevant import tariffs (i.e. the supplementary tax) have
been adjusted in order to provide Gabonese producers with a fair degree of
protection vis-&-vis external competition. Subsequently, this protection
will be progressively reduced, as part of the general policy on customs
tariffs to reduce prices (see below).
Nevertheless, imports of sugar, vegetable oils, soap, mineral water
(non-medical) and cement will continue to be restricted to protect public
investments in these activities. Protection is justified on account of the
unpredictable fluctuations in the prices of these products, the export
subsidies and protection these products enjoy in many countries, and the
small size of the Gabonese market.
2.1.2.2.  Price Cantrols
Government policy is to liberalize prices so as to promote genuine
competition. Although liberalization entails the gradual removal of price
controls, it must also take account of the quasi-monopolistic structure of
certain markets in Gabon. On the basis of a study of import channels and
of distribution of imports and domestically produced goods, Government has
decided to liberalize the controls set on price margins and import
protection for thirty groups of products.
In addition, the Government intends to adopt -- on the basis of its study
-- measures to reduce de facto monopolies in the marketing of domestic and
imported goods, particularly by reducing barriers to entry in trading.



- 52 _
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 26
In order that the implementation of this part of the program will not
adversely affect the Gabonese economy and consumers, the Government will
monitor its implementation very closely and will consult with the World
Bank and other donors as needed to ensure that the necessary corrective
measures are taken in a timely fashion.
2.1.2.3. Rationalization of Incentives
The generous tax structure set out in the Investment Code has produced a
high level of effective protection that is costly to the Government and
offers no real benefit to the economy. Its virtually unlimited duration
--- which runs counter to the rationale for protecting infant industries --
has allowed monopolies to be established, resulted in sectoral bias, and
discouraged the establishment of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The
exemption of inputs and capital goods from import duties and taxes
discourages domestic production of intermediate goods.
Aware of the shortcomings of the existing Code, and in order to progress
gradually toward a standard fiscal system, the Government plans to
introduce a new Investment Code and revise the Equity Participation Code.
A draft code will be prepared by June 1988 and submitted to the World Bank
for comments prior to presentation to the National Assembly, before the end
of 1988. The new Code will be implemented by the start of 1989.
In addition, within the framework of the Central African Customs and
Economic Union, the Government will take immediate steps to simplify the
tariff system. It will establish a structure of rates that will stimulate
the development of a competitive productive structure.
In the interim, the Government plans to use its powers to make the
following changess
-    By September of 1988, the levels of import duties and taxes, net of
turnover tax, will be revised with a ceiling of 100? for
non-luxury items and 1502 for luxury goods (except beer). These
ceilings will be progressively reduced to 80Z and 120? respectively
before the end of 1990, with a view to establishing a scale of import
tariffs around a "normal" rate of about 502, net of turnover tax, and
starting from a minimum rate of 202. This will bring about a
significant reduction in the disparity of effective rates of
protection. These ceilings will not initially be applicable to the
newly liberalized import products.
-    The Government will examine the possibility of establishing,
reestablishing, or increasing import duties and taxes on meat, cereals
and other foodstuffs, not only to increase customs revenues and
compensate for the reductions outlined above, but also to remove the
unfair disadvantages affecting Gabonese production of these goods. A
minimum rate of 10? should be applied to these products from January
1, 1989, and the 20? minimum rate referred to above should be reached



53
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 26
or even exceeded for most of these products two years later. A 52
rate was introduced in fiscal 1988.
2.1.2.4. Promotion of the SMEs.
With regard to promotion of SMEs in Gabon, the Government has proceeded in
several stages:
- 1983-1985: Establishment of the legal framework for the SNEs, the
PROMOGABON agency, and the Aid and Guarantee Fund (FAG).
- 1984-1986: Actual establishment and survey of the SMEs.
- 1987: Creation within PROMOGABON of a Directorate of Assistance and
Training, and expansion of the assistance provided in setting
up SNEs, including management assistance.
- 1987-1988: Creation of a data bank to assist in the finalization of SNE
projects.
- 1988-1990: Strengthening of FAG, with aid from European sources (F.E.D.)
for technical assistance to PRONOGABON and FAG (Program-Law 1988-1990).
2.1.2.5. Promotion of Exports.
In view of the small size of the domestic market, it is necessary to
encourage the development of export-oriented activities. For this reason,
the Government envisages gradually phasing out all taxes on exports, except
for natural resources, forestry and mining products, starting in fiscal
1989 with abolition of the turnover tax on exports.
As regards forestry, as mentioned in 2.4.2., a general analysis will be
made of all the factors governing the price of wood, including tax policy,
from tree-cutting to exportation or local processing.
Concurrently, to improve the competitiveness of exports, particularly
vis-&-vis countries that apply a value added tax regime, the Government
before end of 1988, will introduce an aindustrial zone system' to allow for
duty-free importation of inputs for re-exportation after processing.
2.2. MEDIUK-TERM MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC RESOURCES
In accordance with the strategy defined in 1.2. above, the management of
public finances must provide for medium-term growth of stable resources,
particularly those generated by the non-oil sector and a financial
mechanism allowing for stabilization of budgetary expenditures. The
management of public finances should focus ons
-    continued efforts to simplify and harmonize fiscal procedures so as to
reduce their costs and make them more transparent and, consequently,
more efficient;



_ 54_
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 26
-    an increase in revenue, both by broadening the tax base and by
improving rates of collection;
-    reduction in the fluctuation of public expenditures, both overall and
by major category;
-    an emphasis on the followings
a sustained effort to promote investment in the productive
sectors;
rehabilitation, and subsequently adequate maintenance, of the
infrastructure necessary for developing production zones,
supplying inputs, and marketing output;
rationalization of public administration;
*   human resource development;
-   with regard to investment expenditures, only those projects that have
been subjected to adequate technical studies and preliminary economic
appraisals would be programmed and budgeted. Preparation of the
budget will take place in the context of a three-year rolling program,
under the effective control of the Ministry of Planning and Economy;
-    constitution of a portfolio of projects that have been identified and
appraised, to be considered if economic conditions improve;
-    better management of the Civil Service.
2.2.1. The Mechanism for Stabilization of Budgetary Allocations.
The mechanism for the stabilization of budgetary allocations will permit
the establishment of the three-year rolling investment plan in a country
where a major proportion of government revenue is admittedly unstable.
This mechanism will complement the three-year investment rolling plan; it
would consist of two componentst (a) the establishment of rules to
determine annually the Budget and the three-year rolling investment plan;
and (b) the implementation of a process to allow for the accumulation of
financial reserves. The principal objective of those rules would be to
maintain positive government savings at all times. Consequently, recurrent
expenditure should always be less than or equal to non-oil revenues.
The Government also intends to establish a Reserve Fund. This will make it
possible to freezes (i.e. make unavailable for budgetary use or even for
guaranteeing loans) resources resulting from any large-scale increase in
revenues. The build-up of reserves will provide revenues that will
initially be capitalized and will constitute stable goveranent resources in
the long term.



_55 _
ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 26
2.2.2. Expenditure Programmint.
The Government considers that with scarcer and unstable fiscal resources,
regulation and more careful management of expenditure programming is
required. It has therefore decided to establish a three-year rolling
Program-Law system covering the entire range of government expenditure.
Thus, by end-September each year, the authorities will prepare a draft
Program-Law covering government activities for the next three years. This
Program-Law:
-    defines the general lines of economic and financial policy for the
next three years;
-    defines the overall envelopes for the current and investment budgets
and for debt servicing and also specifies financing policies for the
period under consideration;
-    defines a detailed program of government and parapublic sector
investments -- together with their financing -- over the same period,
and consequently includes in the programming any modifications
necessary or likely in light of new revenue projections;
-    details the supplementary measures needed and the schedule for their
implementation;
-    includes the downstream consequences of the investment budget on the
current budget (i.e. recurrent costs).
This Law is presented to the Government and the National Assembly together
with the Finance Law, which in effect represents the first year of the
program. The first Program-Law, adopted in December 1987, covers the
period 1988-1990.
2.2.3. Management of the Public Investment Budget.
In recent years the absence of financial constraints has led to a
slackening in management of investment expenditure. Manifestations
include: (a) misuse of prefinancing, resulting in the start-up of
off-budget projects, without prior appraisal, and with no guarantee of
subsequent control under Like budget; (b) misuse of budget appropriations
intended for other purposes, a practice encouraged by the absence of
investment programming (program authorization management); and (c) massive
recourse to borrowing, in the mistaken belief that such expenditures did
not affect the balance of budgetary operations.
Aware of this situation, the Government has already taken two steps.
First, it adopted regulations which prohibit off-budget commitments,
effectively freeing it from responsibility vis-&-vis suppliers who do not
comply with the budget rules. Second, the Government established the legal
framework for strengthening the monitoring and supervisory capacities of



- 56 -
ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 26
the Ministry of Planning and Economy by empowering the Ministry to
authorize investment expenses.
On this basis, the Government intends to:
-    define a policy for financing investments within the framework of the
agreements signed with the IMF, i.e. within the constraint of short-
and medium-term financial equilibria;
-    confirm the authority of the Ministry of Planning and Economy over
execution of the Investment Budget and increase the monitoring
capacity of the Ministry of Finance by stricter enforcement of the
regulations and clear demarcation between the functions of the parties
involved;
-    refrain in the future from use of supplier credits and, generally,
from any extrabudgetary expenditure, as agreed with the IMP;
-    study in 1988, and implement in 1989, a complete management system for
the Investment Budget and a budget nomenclature appropriate for the
Gabonese institutional environment.
2.2.4. Improving Management of the Civil Service.
Despite the civil service reform carried out a few years ago, the
Government noted that certain problems persisted and others have arisen.
?he Government has thus decided to carry out a diagnostic study of
management of the Civil Service, which will focus on ways to increase the
dynamism of the administration, rationalize the legal and institutional
framework, define training policy, and identify overlaps in the authority
of government departments.
2.3. THE PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
The parapublic sector is comprised of some 50 companies in all sectors of
the Gabonese economy. Eight of these are public industrial or commercial
organizations, seven are state enterprises, and the rest are mixed
enterprises in which the Government is a shareholder. Most of these
companies are characterized by high operating costs, particularly as
regards payroll. Many suffer heavy financial losses. while others are
adversely affected by inadequate management or low productivity.
The sector has become an increasing burden on the Government, further
decreasing Gabon's competitiveness. To reduce the burden, the Government
has already adopted a series of specific measures including privatization,
liquidations and the termination of price subsidies for certain
consumables. However, the situation now calls for comprehensive action to
reform and rehabilitate the enterprises in the sector.
In view of their importance or the precariousness of their financial
position, the following companies will be treated as prioritiess OCTRA,



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 26
SEEG, OPTITIG, SNBG, Air Gabon, SNTH and other hotels in which the
Government is a shareholder, CFG and the vegetable oil subsector (AGROGABON
and SEPO0A).
The principal lines of the Government's policy will be as followst
(a) establishment of both mechanisms for monitoring parastatal enterprises
and more transparent and efficient institutional framework for
Governmentlenterprise relations;
(b) rationalization of the sector size based on current diagnostic
studies;
(c) financial restructuring of the sector and introduction of rigorous
financial discipline;
id) improving the structure and management of parapublic enterprises to
reduce their operating costs and increase their competitiveness; and
(e) postponing the creation of any new enterprises until the end of the
adjustment program, except for existing enterprises as a result of
their reorganization.
Execution of this policy, as well as the agreement with the IMP, will be
monitored and led by the Commission on Restructuring the Economy and
Rationalizing Public Finance (Management Commission), and more specifically
by its task force on the Structural Adjustment Program. As members of the
Commission, the Ministry of Planning and Economy, the Ministry of Finance
and Budget, and the technical ministries concerned will participate in the
preparation and implementation of the reform.
2.3.1. Monitoring and Institutional Setting.
To establish monitoring mechanisms and the regulation of the relationship
between the Goveroment and parastatal enterprises, all enterprise
activities must be examined. Consequently, these activities must be
planned, scheduled, budgeted, supervised and monitored.
2.3.1.1. Overall Planning for the Sector.
An institutional study has been planned as part of the program of
diagnostic studies of public enterprises. On the basis of this study, Laws
11/82 and 12/82 concerning the status and oversight functions of parastatal
enterprises will be reviewed before the end of 1988. Under the new
legislation, the role of the various agencies monitoring the sector will be
redefined, the conditions applying to oversight responsibilities will be
specified, and Governmentlenterprise relationships will be reexamined. The
objective is to give the enterprises greater responsibility, set objectives
more clearly, and improve performance evaluation. The following issues
will be specifically addressed:



_56-
ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 26
- the appointment of board of eirectors, the size of boards, the powers of
administrators, and remuneration;
- procedures to appoint auditors and officials responsible for monitoring
parastatals;
- procedures to appoint the Director General and the main officials of
enterprises.
2.3.1.2. Planning State/Enterprise Relationships.
By the end of November 1988, the preparation of program contracts will have
advanced to specify the duties of the enterprises and of the Government.
Among the first enterprises to be affected will be Air Gabon, OCTRA, SEEG
and SNBG.
2.3.1.3. Budgeting. SuRervising and Monitoring.
In addition to the institutional study and the program contracts, the
Ministry of Planning and Economy and the Ministry of Finance and Budget
must take appropriate action on the most important issues within their
individual domains regarding the budgeting, supervision and monitoring of
enterprises.
The Ministry of Finance and Budget will implement the annual audits of
parastatal accounts by qualified firms. Each enterprise must submit its
financial statements for certi_ication within four months after closing
accounts.
The budgets of enterprises, drawn up annually for the following financial
year, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Budget and the
Ministry of Planning and Economy by September 15 at the latest, so that
their implications for central Government current and investment
expenditures and changes in guaranteed debt can be taken into account.
For its part, the Ministry of Planning and Economy's newly established
Directorate of Planning and Oversight will continue to develop an
information and monitoring system for the parapublic sector. The system
will provide the basis to establish consolidated accounts from 1984,
standardarized balance sheets, and a management chart for the sector.
2.3.2.    Rationalization to the Sector.
The Government is rationalizing the parapublic sector and has already
liquidated or privatized certain enterprises that were in difficulties.
PI20, SOTRAVIL, PETROGAB, CODEV and SOGACCO have already been
liquidatedlprivatized.  SONADECI, SNTH and SOTEGA haye ceased operations
and are in process of liquidation. The privatization of SONAGAR and PIZO
(after liquidation) is now effective. Nevertheless, the Government
acknowledges that these liquidations and privatizations, while necessary,
give rise to legal and financial problems.



ANNEX IV
Page 16 of 26
The Government therefore undertakes to study these questions, prepare the
legislation necessary for correcting the problems, and implement solutions.
In particular, the Government will appoint the liquidators for those
enterprises to be closed down and adopt auditing rules by June 30, 1988.
In addition, the Government has launched, or is in the process of
launching, about 30 diagnostic studies on the most important parastatal
enterprises (accounting for 971 of turnover in the parapublic sector). The
studies will analyze each enterprise from a technical, financial, economic,
management and personnel standpoint, as well as examine the functions of
each enterprise in light of its cost to the State.
On the basis of these diagnostic audits, and within three months of their
completion, the Government will undertake:
- to liquidate structurally unprofitable and nonstrategic enterprises;
- to privatize economically and financially viable enterprises in
accordance with methods to be defined (i.e. capital transfers,
management contracts, hiring of management expertise, etc.);
- to absorb into other enterprises or agencies those enterprises whose
continued autonomy is not justified;
- to rehabilitate in accordance with the findings of the diagnostic
studies those enterprises considered strategic because they provide
public services or because they promote growth in the productive sector.
The Annex contains the schedule for implementing the audits and deciding
the fate of each enterprise. Finally, the Government is committed to
launch a diagnostic audit of SOGARA (oil refining), the results of which
will be available by December 1988.
In light of the particularly serious position of certain parastatal
enterprises, the Government has decided to adopt a number of emergency
measures on the basis of the preliminary diagnostic audits, before the
final results of the audits are available. Thus:
- regarding the hotels sector:
the decision has been taken to liquidate SNTH (Council of
Ministers decision of December 1, 1987), a liquidator has been
appointed, and liquidation has commenced;
the Dowe Novotel has been closed;
parts of the Dialogue, Re Ndama and Okoum4 hotels have been
closed down so as to reduce fixed costs;
-    regarding Air Gabon:



- 60 -
ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 26
.   one Fokker 28 aircraft has been sold;
one overseas office has been closed;
operations on two international routes have been suspended;
* . some domestic services have been reduced;
-    SOTEGA will be liquidated.
Other measures will be adopted at each stage as indicated by the diagnositc
audits.
As regards OCTRA, it was not possible to take an early decision on the
basis of the preliminary diagnostic audit. It will thus be necessary to
wait for the second phase of the audit a& planned. The authorities have
asked that the first phase be completed as soon as possible. However, some
decisions regarding management have already been taken: (a) the Government
has decided that the severely reduced investment budget made available to
OCTRA should be released in successive tranches, conditional on evidence
that appropriate use has been made of previous tranches; and (b) the
mAnagement of OCTRA has also adopted some rigorous measures effective
immediately; billing staff for services provided (housiAg, water supply and
electricity); abolition of provision of official vehicles; reduction in the
number of official vehicles; abolition of fuel allowances; and reduction in
allowances paid to staff.
2.3.3.    Financial Discipline and Restructuring
Financial Discipline
The Government has adopted a series of measures to improve discipline in
the parapublic sector, which are being continued under the stabilization
program with the IMF. These measures comprise the following:
(a) Investments
The Government points out that strict measures have already been
adopted regarding the granting of government guarantees on public
enterprise investments.
From fiscal 1988, parastatal enterprises' investment programs for
amounts exceeding CFAP 500 million will require advance
government approval, whatever their source of financing (i.e. the
Government, guaranteed loans, domestic loans, and
self-financing).
In future, agreements on investment programming will be included
in program contracts between the Government and enterprises.



_61 _
ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 26
(b) Subsidies
In 1987, the Government severely restricted subsidies on capital
and operating costs to the parapublic sector. These efforts will
be continued in 1988, and the amount of these subsidies vill be
strictly specified in the Finance Law.
In 1988, a document will be prepared identifying all direct and
indirect subsidies in the sector. It will thus provide an
overall picture of transfers and will contain a program of budget
cuts for 1989. The procedure for monitoring this information in
the Ministry of Finance and Budget and the Ministry of Planning
and Economy will be strengthened, and any additional subsidy
during the year will require passage of a Finance Law providing
for such amendment.
In future, subsidies will be negotiated and recorded on an
enterprise-by-enterprise basis in progrAm contracts.
(c) Domestic bank credit
The Government has already set limitations on the granting of
government guarantees for loans by domestic financial
institutions to parastatal enterprises. Actual amounts
outstanding will be monitored.
(d) Budget appropriations for government current expenditures
The Government has already adopted a number of measures for
reducing its spending. From 1988, it will continue to economize
(particularly with regard to electric power, telephone use and
fuel consumption).
It will also make realistic expenditure allocations for 1989,
particularly as regards SEEG and OPT, so as not to incur
additional arrears vis-k-vis the parastatal enterprises.
Financial Restructuring
The reform of the parapublic sector will necessitate considerable financing
to settle the crnse arrears between the Government and the enterprises and-
among the enterprises themselves. Liquidation and privatization costs (in
the settlement of liabilities and personnel terminations) will increase
these financial needs. It will also be necessary to provide working
capital for the enterprises that are rehabilitated.
The Government will specify the minimum amount of financing required,
together with its use, to maximize the impact on the adjustment of the
sector and its rehabilitation. To this end, Government has already carried
out: (a) a survey of the acknowledged deferrals between the Government and
the parastatal enterprises for settling arrears, establishment of a
schedule for that settlement, and comuencement of implementationg and (b)
an updating of cross debts among parastatal enterprises, and between



- 62 -
ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 26
enterprises and the Government, as of December 31, 1987, and assessment of
all arrears owed to suppliers and the private sector;
By June 1988, the Government wills
-    complete data collection on the costs of liquidating, privatizing or
rehabilitating enterprises and update cross debt records, in line with
the findings of the diagnostic audits; and
-    prepare on the basis of this data a selective program of financial
restructuring to settle cross debts among enterprises and certain
arrears, to finance severance payments for laid-off personnel, and
possibly provide working capital.
Sy the end of 1988, the Government will settle at least 202 of the cross
arrears at end-1987.
3.3.4. Improvement of Management and Rehabilitation.
The Government intends to take action on two fronts: personnel management
and wage policy, and technical and financial management.
(a) As regards personnel management and wage policy, the Government plans
tot
place an immediate ceiling on the number-of personnel at the
end-1987 level;
make no objections to decisions taken by the managements of
parastatal enterprises to dismiss employees;
*   implement the wage cuts referred to in paragraph 2.1.1.2.;
within four months of the submission of the relevant diagnostic
audits, adopt a program for reducing the personnel in each
enterprise and reorganizing its management, as indicated in
paragraph 2.1.1.2. above, to be tmplemented in 1989.
(b) As regards technical and financial management, the Government is
committed to implement a rehabilitation program for each enterprise
remaining in the parapublic sector, based on the recommendations made in
the diagnostic audits.
The purpose of the rehabilitation programs is to reduce operating costs,
improve administrative, accounting, financial, technical and business
management in the enterprises, and establish appropriate pricing policies
(i.e. for electric power, water supply and transportation).
Precise performance criteria will be established for the rehabilitated
enterprises in the program contracts with the Government.



- 63 -
ANNEX IV
Page 20 of 26
2.4. SECTORAL POLICIES
The Government considers that, with the exception of SMEs, the main thrust
of its policy of encouraging the productive sectors should focus on the
development of rural areas (i.e. agriculture, forestry, and wood products,
together with the related transport infrastructure).
2.4.1. Agriculture
2.4.1.1. General
The objectives of this policy, as presented in the Fifth Plan, include
increasing income, improving the standard of living in rural areas to
reduce rural-urban migration, and expanding agriculture's share in GDP.
Currently, most available resources are allocated to agro-industrial
projects, thus leaving few resources for the other components of
agricultural development, i.e. research, development and extension.
Agriculture in Gabon faces the following structural and institutional
problems: s                                         ,
(a) a low population density in rural areas and difficulties in
building and maintaining road networks, both of which render input
distribution and commodity marketing costly and difficult;
(b) Acceleration of rural-urban migration by vast infrastructure
projects and rapid development of urban centers;
-c) High cost structure reducing agriculture's competitiveness.
2.4.1.2. Rural Development Strategy.
As population is wvidely scattered throughout the country, the limited
financial resources available for economic and social development in rural
areas will be allocated under the system of OZ1s (Integrated Zone
Operations) to well defined areas with good potential for resource
mobilization and development. These areas will expand overtime because of
their dynamic nature, eventually involving the entire country in the
development process.
*o implement thie strategy successfully two conditions will have to be
satisfied: coordination among the various ministries concerned with
planning investment in the interior; and the restraining of official
intervention in such operations to maximize participation of local
communities organizations.
However, in light of current financial constraints, the OZI feasibility
studies will be more concerned with the rational and low-cost use of
existing investments than with the establishment of new educational or
social infrastructure.



- 64 -
ANNEX IV
Page 21 of 26
2.4.1.3. Marketing and Pricing
The provincial authorities set administered prices for certain products
without any real reference to production costs, and consequently these
prices are generally below market levels.  While they are applied only
sporadically, they operate to the detriment of modern projects, and have
undoubtedly had a disincentive effect on agriculture. For this reason, the
Government intends to examine the problem of administered prices
(mercuriales) and take a decision by November 1988 on the basis of a study
referred to below.
Urban retail prices of most domestically produced goods are two to three
times higher than producer prices. These margins are well above any found
in comparable circumstances elsewhere in Africa. Even if some of this
discrepancy can be attributed to the remoteness of productive areas and the
poor state of the road network, a study of marketing systems is deemed
necessary to identify the causes of the problem.
However, there are no plans to increase Government involvement in
agricultural marketing; to the contrary, a diminution of that role seems
necessary. Thus, on the basis of a study to be undertaken of the marketing
of food products, and of existing studies on coffee and cocoa, plans of
action will be prepared to foster the development of the marketing system
for foodstuffs and improve the marketing of coffee and cocoa.
2.4.1.4. The Organization of Production.
The Government regards agro-industrial projects as a major element in its
strategy for reorienting the economy toward the productive sectors; indeed,
they provide a basis for the operational development of OZIs. In addition,
the Government believes that, although the management of HEVEGAB and
AGROGABON is satisfactory, their costs should be reduced.
For the same reason (i.e. reducing the costs borne by the Government), the
import of vegetable oil has recently been stopped. Palm oil production
will be vertically integrated, incorporating production, processing and
packaging, and marketing. However, subsidies will probably remain
necessary for a transitional period.
(a) Small and Medium-Sized Agricultural Enterprises (Agricultural SMEs):
In line with the OZI strat-gy, the Government has decided to expand the
role of agro-industrial estates to include support for local private
enterprise, by the establishment of cooperatives and the establishment of
village plantations or by the provision of support for medium-scale
enterprises %from 100 ha to 300 ha). The existing system wilL be used to
deliver services to the target population defined above. Services will
include extension, collective purchases of inputs, equipment repair and
maintenance, some administrative services, and assistance with marketing.
Participants will generally contribute to the costs incurred.



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 22 of 26
Such activities have already been launched in Ngounie province, with the
AGROGABON ranch in Ndende, and will shortly begin in Woleu N'tem province,
with village plantations close to Mitzic and Bitam, around the HEVEGAB
complex.
(b) Village Agriculture.
In OZ areas, the farmers, like the agricultural SHEs, will benefit from
the services provided by the operators of the agro-industrial complexes.
With regard to cocoa and coffee production, the Government has decided to
liquidate SONADECI since its high costs and inefficiency do not justify its
continued existence. Before the program contracts are signed, the
Government, with the assistance of a private enterprise, has established a
small organization with interim responsibilities for managing the 650 ha of
coffee and cocoa previously operated by SONADECI.
(c) Credit.
Tn 1986, the Government established BNCR (the National Rural Credit Bank)
to improve access to credit and financial services in rural areas and
provide regular banking activities. The future of this institution will be
decided on the basis of a diagnostic audit, presently under way.
(d) Provision of Inputs
Agriculture in Gabon still consumes modest amounts of modern inputs.
Because of high cost and Input supply difficulties, their use is
essentially limited to. the agro-industrial complexes and a few other
operations. Furthermore, because of the limited number of enterprises
selling agricultural inputs, and the resulting monopolistic structure of
the market, prices are often excessive. A study is being prepared to
establish a supply mechanism to meet the needs of Gabonese agriculture at
the lowest possible cost.
2.4.1.5. Institutional Reforms.
Escept for some agro-industrial enterprises, the work of agricultural
development organizations is hindered by inadequate financing,
institutional and organizational constraints, and lack of management
expertise. As a result, the performance of those organizations is often
inadequate. To remedy this situation, the Government is moving along the
following fronts:
Research: Improve the coordination among the various research
programs, and grant the agencies concerned some degree of
financial autonomy.
Extension: Concentrate the extension activities of the CATEs
(Technical and Financial Support Centers) on OZIs due to low
population density and the shortage of qualified personnel.



_ 66 _
ANNEX IV
Page 23 of 26
*   Trainings Reorient the courses at ENCRO (the Oyem National School
for Rural Experts) to train multi-skilled agents for the private
sector and retrain farmers and agricultural agents.
*   Planning and coordinations Improve the Ministry of Agriculture's
capabilities for project preparation,appraisal, monitoring and
supervision.
2.4.2. Forestry
Gabon's forests are a national wealth a renewable source of assets that can
be developed and sold. Consequently, the forest environment must be
protected and conserved. Wood production can be considerably increased
from its current level of 1.3 million cubic meters without jeopardizing
these resources. The depreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the CPA
franc has increased the dollar price of Gabonese wood, making it less
competitive. In addition, the depreciation of Indonesia's currency makes
wood from Indonesia (Gabon's chief competitor in tropical wood) more
competitive.
However, the Government believes that there are other constraints that also
ipede the growth of wood exports: (a) the high levies charged by SNBG (16?
of the reference price plus the DTS margin); (b) OCTRA's prices, which may
be as much as 50 of the reference price, and which have been increased by
202 over the last two years; (c) export duties and taxes at rates of
between 102 and 15?; and (d) high international freight rates.
The Government has initiated a diagnostic audit of SNBG, on the basis of
which a decision will be taken to restructure, liquidate or privatize it.
At the same time, the Government will set up a task force on forestry under
the aegis of the Economic Management Commission. It will include
representatives of the Ministry of Forests and Water Resources, OCTRA, and
forestry experts. The Task force's responsibilities will be tot
-    evaluate the impact on the overall cost of wood transport of the
reduction in OCTRA's transport costs;
-    adjust freight rates and export levies in light of the rates applied
elsewhere, in order to place the Gabonese forestry sector on an equal
footing with competitors;
-    supervise preparation of a master plan for forest use including
commercial and environmental considerations. This master plan is to
be based on the need to conserve and regenerate forestry resources,
while substantially increasing wood exports (including processed
wood).



_ 67 _
ANNEX IV
Page 24 of 26
2.4.3. Transportation
In the last 15 years, the Government has made a considerable investment in
creating a transportation infrastructure appropriate for Gabon's
development. Until recently, road, air and see infrastructure vas
adequate. However, construction of the railway progressively absorbed the
greater part of the resources slated for infrastructure investments until
it was no longer possible to maintain the road system. As a result, the
development potential of agriculture and forestry may now be in jeopardy.
Except for road transportation, the transport sector is managed by
parastatal enterprises. Because of the sudden slowdown in economic
activity, the financial position of those enterprises has considerably and
rapidly deteriorated, and the Government has been obliged to provide large
and increasing subsidies. Despite the subsidies, the enterprises have
accumulated short-term debts. The diagnostic audits currently under way
will produce recommendations for prompt action on rehabilitating these
enterprises.
In addition, the Government will improve preparation of the data base for
the sector, particularly as regards traffic flow measurements, so that a
balanced overall strategy for the sector can be prepared. Moreover, the
evaluation and planning capacity of the technical ministries involved will
be strengthened. As a result, and without prejudging the findings of the
in-depth technical and economic audits, the Government plans to take the
following actions over the coming years: (a) application of the
recommendations made in the audits of the parastatal enterprises in the
sector; (b) implementation of an emergency program of road rehabilitation
and maintenance to provide at least minimum access to agricultural and
forestry regions; and (c) definition of a strategy for the balanced
development of the various transportation modes.
3.   ACTION IN THE SOCIAL SECTORS
The very size of the structural adjustment program outlined above gives
reason to suppose that its social impact will be considerable. The
modification of the structure of government spending, wage cuts, and the
restructuring of the parapublic sector will result in changes in the
structure of demand and consequently of supply. In these circumstances,
despite the precautions that have been taken, it is likely that the least
privileged social strata may experience a crisis, average professionals
lose motivation, and the social structure be disrupted.
In response to this situation, the Government envisages s
-    mobilizing additional financing to undertake a 'Social Costs of
Adjustment Project' cofinanced by the UN, the ADB, the World Bank, and
other donors which will establish an information system on the social
consequences of the program and recommend measures to alleviate the
social Impact of the program;



68
ANNEX IV
Page 25 cf 26
-    coordinating working groups in the education/training and health
sectors whose mandate is to examine intersectoral priorities. Taking
into account the objectives of the structural adjustment program and
anticipated resource constraints, these working groups will propose
operational and self-contained sectoral policies and strategies
compatible with the agreed upon priorities.
-    mobilizing, at the earliest opportunity, additional resources to
maintain at a minimum the present level of benefits, particularly in
the areas of health and education that are designated as priorities in
the sectoral strategies;
-    establishing a fund to assist laid-off workers wishing to set up
enterprises (retraining, training) and expand the activities of FAG
and PROMOGABON).
4. MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAM
The Government has decided to establish a high-level interministerial body
to implement and manage this program, coordinate the various agencies, and
centralize the information necessary for decision-making.
This 'Economic Management Commission' is chaired jointly by the Minister of
Planning and Economy and the Minister of Finance and Budget. Its principal
members are the High Commissioner for Planning, Development and the
Economy, who serves as the Secretary General as well as the followings the
Economic and Financial Adviser to the President responsible for relations
with international organizations; the Economic and Financial Adviser to the
Prime Minister; the Secretary General of the Ministry of Finance and
Budget; the Financial Adviser to the Minister of Finance and Budget; the
adviser to the Minister of Planning and the Economy; the Comptroller
General; the Director General of the Economy; the Director General of the
'Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement'; the Director General of Pricing and
Economic Studies; and the National Director of the BEAC.
The High Commissioner for Planning, Development and the Economy is
responsible for the technical component of the Commission (the Standing
Technical Committee), consisting of the Comptroller General (coordinator of
the first working group), the Director General of the Economy (coordinator
of the second working group, and a Secretary or Assistant Secretaries
designated by the President and consti-uting the Secretariat of the
Commission.
The Commission, through its Standing Technical Committee, will ensure that
planned measures are consistent and properly implemented. It will promote,
and may plan, the establishment of modern information systems to serve
management needs with respect to the Government's agreements with the IMF
and the and the World Bank. It will also be responsible for monitoring,
quality control and compliance with schedules.



- 69 -
ANNX IV
Page 26 of 26
Consequently, it will serve as Gabon's main link with the World Bank, the
IMP, the ADB, and other organizations participating in the preparation and
financing of economic policy. To this end X
-    it will monitor implementation of the measures contained in the
Structural Adjustment Program and related commltments;
-    it will be responsible for overseeing the preparation of the necessary
documentation before each World Bank or IMP mission;
-    it will propose any necessary corrective measures for the Program.
In fulfilling its functions, the Commission will draw upon the specialized
task forces.



GADON - SIRKMAL ADJMT  PROGM
POLICY MAThIx
I  mAmN TEmE#oBJECTIVE     I          POLICY AEA                    ACTIONS TO KE TAUE I      I           TARET DATE
t  WAGE A   ?WEMTW   tOiUCIES 
1t. Slogen    Sasre,                dtle of aslr  la th.           4sX rdtios In  Iloe               Copl          (ovb  19
!                                (Civil I X. oquvlt                               a 1 *.43 fell ti
I                                j                                 (Co am  of go90   ?s.b u          j Ceml.ted (Sept.embr lw)
1(Roduction t 4X of otI t ou bon)
l                                                 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onnt nillse  t nl =   t of  jom"'poed (January 11910)1
I                                                 1C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fe-ormarali:     Istir tn them 
Ministry of Ftinse
Reduwtlon of ni izese In th      Cut  In wag rate  and payroll I
IPrapublIc sekor                 In thI por pbhic *octor          I
If                               | lot trench. (-55)                Completed (July 1906)
1                                | Ind tr neb. (-I")                March to N1w-bmr 106                              o
Eli-imtlon of obstre@. to         Appf-ov  by the Go"        of    October I8
redu-cing of VWag  ost,rf  osooindwlpa  H
pOiingth LaorCode,m to
i                       ~~~~~~~orJ r to I                 
*ncomwr ploc fork
- allow *snctlono to ab *pplied
! pa ee obeeteulm
_  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _I I                                  and
p
0



FMAIN THEME/OBJECTIVE                        POLICY AREA                   ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN                   TART DATE              I
2 Reform of Incentives and       |Study of Import chann le and    IRoport                             lComplot February 1988. 
pramot;on of the productive   idlstribution of Imported *nd 
seoctor                         idobestic lly producod products I 
|                                 |Ltborallxation of prices and     I    -
I                                 I trading marginI
l oet Group                       |Draft list                        Completed, February 1088
I                I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-                II
I                                                                   I tDecrse                          April 1980
I                                 1  2nd Group                      1ecroe                            ISoptembor 1988I
I                       ~~~~~~~~I                          I                                  II
ISusp nsion of Import restrictionalModtfication of the              ISptember 1988
I(cartificate of shortage *nd     Isupplomentary tax (law or
lcurtailm_nt of output) and        rdonnunce) and implec nting      1
ladju*tment of relovent Import   idecree
Itariffs except for a product
(sugor, vegetable, o, soap,     
lcsnt and mineral water)          I                                 I                                 |
Revision of Import taxes and    IUpdating the Custom Tariff t      ISeptember 1088                                      4
I duties net of turnover tax to    Irevision of the supple_entary    I
Iroech a celing of ISOX for       Itax (1980 Draft Finance Law)                                                         t
I luxury product  (except beer)    I                                                                  |
land INS for other products       I
Mb  uro  to tncreess c _p  ition tProlrm of _ *ur"                 IJun 198
between tmporter end rce de             o
|Submission to National Assembly  iDraft Law                        IDecember 1008
I                                 lof new Invetment Code and the   I                                  I                                 I
wi                                Ire vised Equity Participation Code I                               i
Request to UDEAC to modify tho   IRecelpt of request by UDEAC      ijune 1988
co_mon external t4riff           I                                 I
|---     -     - --      ---- -----------------------------------------
0
Io0



MAIN THEME/OBJECTIVE       |           POLICY AREA            I       ACTIONS TO K  TAKEN        I           TARGET DATE            I
S. Promotion of SME               |Creation of a date bank on       jDor _nt                            April 19
!4. Promotion of exporte          1project within PROiOGAcON
14. Promotion of oxports          PetSting up an *Industral zone*  jUpdeting of the Customs Code        IDocembOr 1968
IElitination of turnover tax on   j1989 Draft Finance Low            18ovember 1986
exports for all productlexcePt
Inatural reoure
I                            .       .         ............          I
I                                                                                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~ 
I. MNANAGEMENT OF PU8LIC           Reduction In subsidies to         iReduction In budgeted mount
IRESOURCES                        lhoueoholds and enterprisv         I
!loutaide restructuring).         I  - 22  In 1987 (execution)      ICompleted, 1987.
i  .  1|  - 24X In 1988 (Budge)              ICompleted  Nov =r 1987
- fror n at 1988 level       lZovwr 198           
jProhibition on extrabudgetry    1Progr6L.w 1898-198                  Co1pl96, D6c_Wr 1987
lexpenditure                       PrIa                                                                                   _
!  IIDecree                        April 1, 1966
iReduclon In eiw0   service        Reduction In budgeted aou         I                                 I
Ipsyroll Including nonpermnent   I
labor (b     ry effect of the   I -oX                               Done in 198 
I                                 Imasu"rec dGetiled in I)           I                                  I                                 I
1 -61 |  XDone In 18881
-Stabilized In 1999 (Draft    INovemr 1666
Finane Low)
C.
w



I     NAIN THEME/OIJECTIVE                   POLICY AR                     ACTIONS TO KE TAKEN         |        TARGET DATE           I
I   teance of positive           tOperatnlg expenditure lorw then 3Completed In I       nd o1  1to I
iover_At so1s   In all            or ""I to mollt reoA            _bde
I reumetnces
Redwtlonis       toi             I 70X ereductionofro 198rev O 19n     Dobe dtn 1917                1
xpwitere                       715 reduction from 166 to 1988  Do",  _ r  ISS?
1Restrueturi   I   _estmont     jProductiv, vector develop_ment     0" . an 1
cx_ltur   nftvor of           oxplituro lrcrc_ from 14X
produlct,v  aivite and           In 166446 to 84X In
Ir r1ncuro mintnnce              19e7 an 97X to IM       d.        Dom In Deember 1
progrmmn g of public and fProre -L            t 18-I               Do", D _r 16?6
Ip r publi:'investment          9IIM                               I e
I               I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Progr  9911.
-Dr tt                        No_vmbr 12811
-Soton                       |December 1986
Appropriate budgeting of        11969 Flnaoon  Low                 Nov. mr 1668
1g.er meit consumption                                             I
Restructuring the external det  Pari eCluluuIb                         ' D   i1
.r  Club end  Iodn       det16
I                                   lRequest for lo r-teom         1ifrch 1961
'Rmi*e                           Ireacbedllng by Parls Club
Resom  fund             IDraft Legiselation               Oc e I
iImrovemnt in mnaement of the  Staftp of te  t                        ember 16
civil service 
I                                IImprovement In manaemsnt of    ILe.9lastion or draft legislatIon  November 168
Ipablic lnvstment (complete
an_gemsn  system and
I       atur)____                                                                                    I
0d
ol1



-----es-e-----
MAI TNO40BACTVE                           PWCYvU                        ACTIONSTO s K TAMe TAODT
13.1 MIbntorlng *SW ln"     lou  Ist   c                                                                                                 I"to   t  I wiiloa of bdts i
1     otte     ed     tt@        J ret.i beudetseto MI ltl I
lot Plannin dEco  : d trs    - low  (ivetmnt)                       No,  ov. 187
Ftnmman lluge  In
istb    of thUnI     lo    rr       - 199                            Septsber 199
lAir Gobon progr   contract       Slgnature                          November 1988
IInieltutional study of the       Actual submission of the study    November 1C8S
Iperepubltc seator
1.2. RrtonIsal:tion of, the *lix  iLiquIdatton and/or prlvatlztioo ILlquldetlon endor trene.r of   jDone ed 187 I
of the sector and rehsblltatlon  oft9 . _rpr)oo repreoettng    the enterprise or Its asset.,
of enterprise                     lox of the turnover of the          uner way (s onterprises) or
entepriseus underewlw.           jco.ple" (e snterprises)
IL unching of 0 proron of        IContr ct *n" f or 17             ID*" , *n-187I 
ldian"no  tc. *tudl-s of 84      lonterprIn  , 16 of Mm under
lenterprisn   In tho * ctor (97S  lwy and 2 under conulUt Fon                                         |^
lot the *ector *ith the           I                                 I                                 I
lquted a od, pivetiettsd
I                                 I Start audit, on 14 others       Jun  18
Deciso1n  en th  bels of the    @Councl of lNlntsr Dt Isloe on *Io    r 18
dipgnostic adits                  at leaet 22 enterprises
I                I                                 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(trocludlng thos  already t k n,                    I
plus OCTRA, SEE8 , Air Cebon,
I                        I~~~~~~~SNCB) representing uu.X oNvme 16 
I                |                                 S~~~~~~~~~~~~~Und er revlo  (SO of 10_m) 1
I                        I~~~~~~~~SubmIssion of a 9 n rs1 progra _   Doc _t                  INovember 1908 
~~~~~~~~~I Ior re tndcurlng the
|                        I~~~~~~~p republil  sector                                               
oq



KMAIN THEME/OLJECTIVE            I           POLICY AREA            I       AMTONS TO BE TAKEN M                   TARCT DATE            I
I                                 |Celing on staff at end-198l       iov rWt Directive                 IDon, Fobrry 190
DJeclaration by the enterprise.    March 1989                        1
IStart of negot ltiona with the    Reports of progre   of            Iovember 1986
Ipublic enterprises on draft       negotiation 1
at prograo contracts wlthin 4    1                                  1
on" s of *ubmlision of the finnal)                                  
report on diagnostlc studies      J                                                                 -
18 . Financlal discipline and     Adente approval by the            IProgram-4aw 1988-1990             Done, December 100?
reotructurlng                     Gov rnont of  ny  nvatgot         II
IprnA ntor ofounyt *nvesentn
I                                    AF SO mlIII on, rlrespectivo   IProgrm-La  199-1991                No _mber 1988
of the  ode of fin ncing In
I                        l~~~~~~~~envi sagd                 I                                  I
I                                 iSurvoy of deferrals acknoledod  iTable                               1Done, February 1066
between Government and
parapublic entorpprie  for
settling saroars                                                                                       I
Survoy of cross debts             Table at end-197                 IDone, February 1066               !
between parapublic enterprises,
and with the Government, and
Ievalustion of the effect on th I
Iprvate secor                     I
ICopletion of date collection on 1Document setting forth             IJun  1908
eo to of liquidation, crou        larrangements for settlement                                         I
debts and deferrale, and
preparation of a settlemt        I
l                        ~~~~~~~~~progre                    I                                  
pSettle t in 1966 ot 293 of      ITable  SNoetlmnr 19E8M
IC""s debt  at ond-l9S87          I                                 I 
Actul Setlomt le
109



-------------------------- - -                                                --------------                                           --- 
I       ^MAIN THME/OBJECTIVE                   POLICY AREA            I       ACOS TOOB  TAKE                        TARG   DATE            I
:IV. SECTOR POLICY
Agriculture                  IStudy on markoting oft oodstuff   Terms of reference                 IMay 1066
including examination of the                                         I                                  I
naystem of adolnesterd priems   IConsultants selebetd                  July 1908                         1
(mercurile)                                                         I
i  i                               IeRport                            lOctober 1988
I                                  lOeDecision on adainistered prices   November 1068                    1
istudy on ctsk crope (coffee,      IReport                            Done, Docember 1987
Plan of action                     November 10S8                     I
I   Forestry                        Roview and analysit of *Il teh    Plan of action to Isov  th         INoveber 1988                      1
I                                  If actore affoeting the price of    competitiveness of     wood "a
wood, includilng th * tx polity,   *ub ectr
tfro tbe fhfellng t90.  to xport
or local procssing
PPr  nratlon of a neater plan for ITrms of referenco and choice of  October 1068 I
Iftorest use, Including            !consultants 
Icom  rciel and onvironmentl                        I
t                         je~~~~~~~onsidertions                                     
i   Transportation                 I
I   - OCTRA                          Incroeae  financat l discipline   IInstruction from the High        IDone, January 1908
Iregrding utilization of           ICommissioner for Planning,
government resources              1Dvelopnt and the Economy
Reduction In benetits In kind      Dectision  of the Directorate      Done, *nd-198?
land allowances                    General
IR dcton In invostont budg1t 1160 billion In 1066
IReduction in  1nvestment  8udget   32.5 billion In 1987 (-75)        I Done, 1987                       1
j fi                               I 27 billion In 1988 (-165)        Done, Dcember 1987
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                             - ___- ---------, ----_                                     -       _        I              o 
Go
0



MAIN TH7EME/OBJECT`VE             I           POLICY AREA                     ACTIONS TO  E  TAM                      TARPEt DATE            I
- Roads                         Em_rgency and transittIonl         JAI locatton In the Progra-Law    1Do, beeber 1917
program  for roa  matntnoaanc
(CFAF 8 bit iton/yer)
APPaiSa1, financing, launching   Noy          18
V- SstCAL tasACT OF THE PROn Etbia_   t of two toak forceotsCircular of th  Eo1nomc pl.. 19i1
G one on oducation/training, the   lHMang. t CeMIseon
1                                  tOther on health                    I                                                                      I
Sector l reviow of humn            Pr       1  ot on tntegrated       INo - mer 188
resourcoe, drawing on              Iction progr   tn the Draft
oitr  studios. fudp1rp ratogn ft
{xlXln  1".              ~~~169-1991 ProgramLaw|
E I bit _I   t off w  und to       Establishmont ot the fund          1No.vblr 1908
l                          *  luX~~~~~asis  lold-off workorn  I                                                                      I 
VI. PROGRAM  MONITORING             Estabiishment ot a mechanis  to  |Economic Menegameat coaminslon   jOw, Februnry 1988
onitor and "nage th
StructUral Adjustment Pror o
I~~~~~~I 
1  --1                          1-                     ---1                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



78-
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 10
PARAPU3LIC SECTOR
SCHEDULE 0? DTIAGN3-TIC STUDIS
3PERPRISE  ACTIVITY          STATUS  GOVENENT FINANCIRG START-UP END OP FIRST COMPLETIOR DECISI
SHARI M%                        PHASE I/
Air Gbhon  Air transpor-
tation           SEK       80         CCCS    9-87     10-87.        3-88      6-88
SWBG       Wood marketing   SER        51         CCCS    9-87     10-87         3-88       6-88
SONA|T     Sea trwanpor-
tation           SEN       51         CCCI   9-87      10-87         3-88      6-88
SOT58A     Manufacture of
loincloths       SAPP      14         CCCS    9-87     10-87         3-88      4-88
OCT9A      Rail transpor-
tation           EPIC      100        ACDI    10-87    12-87         5-88      8-88
CFG         Wood industry    SEN       52         CCCI   10-87,   11-87          4-8       7-88
CII         River trans-
portation        SE        100        CCCs   10-87   11-87           3-88      6-98
S9D         Hotels           SEX       88         CCCX    10-87    12-37         4-88      7-88
SUN         Hotels           SEX       55         CCCE    10-87    12-87         4-88      7-88
Sm! 2       Tourism & hotels SE  ,     100        CCCI   10-87    12-87          4-88      7-88
CINU1I DU
CAICE       Cement           SEX       91         CCCE   12-87    1-88           5-88      8-88
GABON IN-  Data
1031kSQUE  processing      SEK       36         CCCB    12-87    1-88          5-88      8-88
O3Y9M       Ports            EPIC      100        CCCB    12-87    1-88          5-88      8-88
EEC!       Bural credit    SE          100        CCCB    1-88    2-88           6-88      9-88
SEES        Electric power
& water supply  SEX        64         EDF     1-88     2-88          7-98      10-88
AGALO-
CAME  /    Agriculture       SEX       96         EDP     3-88     4-88          8-88      11-88
WOSSP& 5/  Vegetable oil   SEU         25         EDP     3-88     4-88          8-88      11-88
OPT 4J      Post             EPIC      100        CCCB   4-88      5-88          9-88      12-88
TIG If      Telecommunl-
cations          SE8       61         CCCI   4-88      5-8          9-88      12-88
sosuao      Sugar            SEX       41         ND?     6-88     7-88          12-88     3-89
AGROGADO
9LBGB       Livestock        SEN       94         ED?     6-88     7-88          12-88     3-89
CECA-GADIS Commerce          SEN       41         ED?    6-88      7-88          12-88     3-89
C8GS        Social security  EPIC      100        EDP     6-88     7-98          12-88     3-89
CNSS        Social security  EPIC      100        ED?     6-88     7-88          12-88     3-89
CRIVOGA     Real estate
credit           SEX       66         ED?    6-88      7-88          12-88     3-89
HElICrA     Rubber tree
growing          SEN       99         ED?    6-88      7-88          12-88    3-89
LET?        P3blic works
laboratories     EPIC      100        ED?    6-88      7-98          12-88    3-89
OGAPR W     Livestock        EPIC      100        ED?    6-89      7-83          12-88     3-89
StID        Akgriculture &
livestock        SBX       33         ED?    6-88      7-88          12-88     3-89-
SNAT        Forwarding       SEX       51         ED?    6-88      7-88          12-88    3-ag



_ 79 -
ANNEX V
Page 10 of 10
PARAPUBLIC SECTOR
SCHEDULE OF DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES
ENTERPR.  ACTIVITY   STATUS GOV'T FINANCING START-UP END OF 1st COMPLETION DECISION
SHARE                    PHASE I/
(2)
SNI       Real Estate  SEN    77      EDF     6-88       7-88       12-88    3-89
SONADIG   Investments  SE      100    EDF     6-88       7-88       12-88    3-89
ASECNA    Civil
Aviation     EPIC   100   EDF       6-88      7-88        12-88    3-89
SOGARA    Refinery      SEH    25     EDF     6-88       7-88       12-88    3-89
11   The first phase consists of a preliminary diagnostic study.
2/   The decision to liquidate the enterprise was taken in December 1987.
31   The decision on the structure of the vegetable oil sector will be taken in
June 1988.
4/  A financial audit of OPT and TIG will be carried out from February 1988 to
April 1988, and will be followed by a diagnostic study.
ABBREVIATIONS :
EPIC:     Etablissement public a vocation industrielle ou commerciale
(public industrial or commercial institution)
SAPF:     Societe a participation financiere de l'Etat (company in which
the government is a shareholder)
SE:       Societe d'Etat (government corporation)
SEK:      Societe d'economie mixte (mixed enterprise).



Table 1:  ae. - elected keomic Indicators
(billie. of cut,t 1904 FCFAI
ctual                                  Proieted                                         Avrag  _NI Iruthb  atn
194       M5       198      1997      19        1909     1990        5      2000'                -    199740   1990.95  952000
rs Domtic Prdct                 I536     163       1541     135       1373      1472     1592      179      1942                -3.0      5.5       2.3      1.9
Term  of trae Adjustmnt           0       -70      -0       -427      -492     4545      -414      -533     -307                  ..
Gross Domstic Incm              156      15i3       053      929 m     91       927       977      1247     1635               -14.2      1.6       5.0      5.6
gricultre                        97         5       97                  o 100   101       105       129      159                0.6       2.2       4.2      4.2
inustry                         974      1041      976       on53       75      956      1050      1154     11W                -4.0       7.2       1.9      0.9
Oil                           6"        691       664      62        6        730       820       Om       997                -3.S      9.4       1.6      0.0
Services                        378       399       391      339       335      351       371       423      501               -3.5       3.2       2.7      3.4
Public Cons,tien                204       206       239      211       214      221       227       224      204               -9.2       2.5      -0.2     -1.9
Private Cosmption               431       409       503      395       392      373       394       470      592               -1.7      -0.9       4.1      4.7
Total Consumption               715       775      742       605       596      59S       610      6"        796               -4.9       0.3      2.6       2.9
Total la tmt                   515       575       499      295       279      268       260      320       30S              -14.3      -3.1      3.6       3.7
Exports 1 goads A IFB           931       920      976       949       969      970      1079     1198      1249               -3.0       8.4      2.1       0.9
tportsof goedc    FS            625       637      566       393       370      361       366      431       466              -13.3      -2.3      3.3       2.4
eads * Services Ihlnce           74       -33     -315      -104      -154     -102       -77       20       344                 ..
Curmt  ccount Balance            45       -75      -366     -141      -176     -121       -96       -4       314                 ..
Ratios (percent)           - - - - - - - -               (from curret price data) -
Cnsusption / 6sP               46.6      49.1     69.7      65.9      68.0     65.7      64.3      57.4     47.6
Invtmntt 1 S                   33.5      37.3     45.9      31.5      30.3     29.1      26.7     26.3      25.2
Public lv. I Total Tv.         26.3      29.2     27.0      10.6       9.7     11.9      14.7      17.3     20.2
Exports, goods & NFS I 5W      60.6      54.6      34.1     41.1      39.5     40.9      42.3      47.9     56.3
Ilports, goods & IFS t GOP     40.7      0.9      49.7      39.3     36.7      34.6      33.3     31.5      29.1
Current cct. hl. I GOP          3.0      -4.6    -31.2    -13.4    -17.1    -11.6        -0.6     -0.3      13.2
Debt Service Rctio             11.6      12.7     25.7      29.0      29.9     26.3      24.2     17.7      16.9
- after reschouling          11.6      12.7      19.1      5.6       0.4     12.4      15.0     29.7      17.6
EOt Dbt Serv t Sovt Re         15.9      16.5      17.9     38.3      41.9     42.5      0.4       19.6     10.3
- after rescedling           15.9      16.5      12.2      6.4      13.2     19.9      24.1      37.5     11.3
External Debt 1 6SI            29.7      30.9     40.9      51.2      55.9     65.5      72.2     65.6      29.4
Cur Sur/etf of Govt 1 SOP      17.9      19.!      13.0      1.4       0.5     -1.5      -0.7      9.5      19.4
verall S/O af GOvt / SOP       -4.2      -5.0    -14.9      -9.9     -7.7      -9.1      -6.9       2.1      9.0
Oil Exports / Tot lNrch ENpt    92.4     90.9     67.2      68.9      68.2     69.5      70.7     72.i      72.7
Oil Rnveue I Tot Govt Rev      65.6      63.3     56.7      25.2      27.7     23.8      25.9     45.1      55.5



Table 2i 6ad  - hbl                 M IM      `licl 6D  td1ExtorI  Det
kteal                                   ProJected
1984     195       196       1917      19        1999      190       191       12       19        194       I95       19        I"9       19"       19       2000
DiUIUE S I TY EF LOER
X1UD                               0         0         0         0        20       49        60        68        45        24        20        20        19       14         9         4         0
OtberW  ltilateral                12         8        14        14        42        n         7i       83        57                  39        40        36        28       16         9         0
Bilateral and Sranted             10        55       110       174       171       to0      130       124       101        62        63        64        66       6         72        75        79
Private nmn-guranted             150       200       332        54         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
t,identified (gapfill              0         0         0         0        -7        79      171       345       339       407       411       403       424       36       170       -27       249
Total                            242       263       456       241       226      331       440       620       540       531       53        52          4      447       266        60      -169
of sich, 1365 (erctntl         0.02      0.01      0.0o      0.02      8.95     12.91     13.62    11.0I      9.31      4.52      3.81      3.82      3.3t     3.11      3.03      6.n       0.O0
OtWr Finaciq
IIF                               -2         0        32        13        84        0       -15       -27       -33       -0        -13        0         0         0         0         0         0
he btRscltlsn                      0         0        91       413       37        333      306         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
8rsd Total                       240       263       579       667       6E0      714       733       593       507       491       520       527       544      447       266        60      -169
Dbt ervice Paysents
- before rscbetling            252       260       300       407      436       416       424       39        416       430       454       45       5U        630        97       745       768
- after roshedlin              252       260       217        el       123       19       262       593       662       719       778       613      643       I71        m        8s3       796
Debt erice Rtio
- before restc ulinq          11.6      12.7      25.7      28.0      29.0     26.3      24.2      20.2      19.4      18.3      17.9      17.7      18.0     18.9      19.9      16.2      16.9
- after resedelisq            11.6      12.7      19.1       5.6       9.4      12.4     15.0      30.1      30.9      30.6      30.7      29.7     27.8      26.0      23.2      20.3      17.6   
total lebt  totsts4i! 0
a8d Disbursed                 1044      1127      1332      1767      2064     2499      2933      3243      3422      3551      3637      3693     3742      3674      3433      294       2327
of hich, IID                    12        11        10         9        27       75       135       202       243       256       260       259       254      243       225       202       174
(Wrcent)                  1.21      1.03      o.7       0.52     1.32      3.01      4.62      6.21      7.1S      7.21      7.21     7.02      6.31      6.62      6.U       6.9       1.52
mI  ebt ot 1 tltbhd / SWP       29.7      30.0      40.9      51.2      55.8      65.5      72.2     78.6      77.0      73.       69.3      65.6      61.6     56.5       9.9      40.7      29.4



Table  3           CONSTSIENIT AND DISBURSEIENT ASSUIIPTIOIS FOP NEl LOAWS (in FCFA)                           Base Cast 1616 Dil)                      04-br-G
--- ---------------------------------------------- --- ------------                        CFAF 275 per USt (98-90   then 300    ----
Coeitwents in FCFA              Borrower      I987      1988     1t9        1990       1991      5992      1993      1994      1995       1996         7      1998      199       2000
Nultalateral
Quick disursmnq                 6ovt.         0         22        25        25        27         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Projects                        Govt.          4        10        21        15        I         18        1o        le        18         0          0         0         0         0
Bilateral guaranteed
Quick disebrsing                Govt.         6          6        11        it        12         12         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
Aid projects                    Govt.         15         6         6         6         6          6         6         6         7          7         7         8         B         8
Export credits - B.i.           60vt.          0         6         6         6         6       6            6         6         7          7         7         B         8         a
Export credits -  valiss    Ent.Pub.          0          6         6         6         6          6         6         6         7          7         7         8         B         8
Coaueral Wxs moo-qwuarste    6ovt.              15         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0
TOTAL                                48         54        73        67        75        49         37        37        38        21        22         23        24        25
Disbursouts of laN  Lom s  fCFA
lultilateral
Ouick isbaring                  60vt.         0         11        23        25        27         14         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
Projects                        Govt.          0         2         5         9        tS         17        19        l8        16         16        13         7         4         0
Bilateral 6uaranteed
Quick disbursing                Govt.         6          6        11        It        12        12          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
AidprojeKtg                     Govt.          1         3         6         6         a          6         6         6         6         6          7         7         7         8
Errt credits - B. Iov.          Govt.         2          5         6         6         6         6          6         6         6         7          7         I         8         6
esrt cedits - avalish    Et.Pub.             0          1         4         6         6         6          6         6         6         7          I         7         a         6
Cmrciab n&WSInk-qunrat,   sort.               tS          0         0         0         Q          0         0         0         0         a          0         0         0         0
TOTAL                                25        28         55        62        73        61        37         37        37        36        33        29         26        24
o    6Bvniet                       25        27         51        56        67        55        31         30        31        2t        26        21         19        Id
o/ePSbl*c ateI*ieo                             1         4         6         67 
Oebt  elieft in fCFA1986                                198        1969     1990      1991      1S92       1993      194       199       1996      1997        998      199       2000
~~~~~~~~~._.__..                      -        --    _             --        .-          -         -        ...       .-        ....        -        .-                    
Paris Club - ILT debt                3t        97        91         92        85         0         0          0         0         0         o         0          0         0         0        0
-  postal ar rsn           0        22         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0
Lrmn Pnub                             0         7          6         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
TOTAL                      32       126       104         92        65         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0
Profiles de Decaissent 121
Quick Disbursing            502, 502 Saultileteral), 1001 Ibilatrall
Projects                    101, 202. 30S, 202, 202
Exret credits               252. 502. 252
Coeerclal banks             1002



Table 4: fabon - Balance of Pannts S_r, nase O cae ($16 OilI
- - -----         siullin oSI)                                      FCO 275 per S    U99-O0, tn 300                   04-lbr-
1994     1955      1986      1987      1988     199       1990      II        1992      1993      2994     1995      199i      1997      1999      1999      2000
Enports. goods &  S        2129      1999      1154      1417     1435      1554      1723      19t       2108     2317      249       2694      2990      3297     3639      430       4456
O/0 oil                  1669      1530       711       903      90O       998      1129      1319      1437      1592     1707      1837      2036      2259      2497     274       3067
11aorts. pods  IS FS      -1431    -1499    -1693      -1322    -1371    -1320    -1356    -1324    -1413    -1531    -1661    -1775    -1991    -1990    -2074    -2169    -2303
Factor Services, net       -529      -574      -381      -437     -624      i604        49      -65       -721     -772      -615      -951      -987     -928      -961      -9       -I008
oh* isterent             -129      -132     -170      -236      -305      -335      -36       -369     -382      -390      -395      -396      -394      -m        -379     -352      -300
Transfrs, net               -66       -93      -147     -121       -90       -72       -69      -66       -70       -74       -79       -1        -a5       -89       -92                 99
mumti6  ACCfIT BA/LCE       104      -267    -1057      -463      -640      -442      -350      -114       -        -59       -60       -14       127       291       M12      7        1046
Oil Nector            795       7f7       166      278        29       203       Slf       510       567      645       bS6       750       S82      1040      1216     1421      169
NM-oil               -691      -094    -1223      -739      -te8      -645      -61       -624     -62        -705     -746      -764      -765      -749      -705      -42      -573
mP6 Debt, net II             7         8 aS     250       -27      -55         2       -40      -40       -60      -269      -294      -274      -259     -239      -193      -14        -9t
hisbo etns                242       263       456      242       233       301       260       275      202       124       222       124       120       111       96        fn        79
eortizatio.              -171      -180      -199     -269      -209      -299      -30       -315     -362      -33       -417      -398      -379     -349      -2f9      -231      -178
Private. Ig-to cap. set     105       I2        231       37       320        71       -18      -113       35        31        St        21       -2       -10?      -145     -19       -210
oCI oil sector            149       l69       225       24       302        53       -55      -147      -15       -21        -5       -37      -122      -169     -207      -25S      -m
Fond Future Serations         0         0         0        0        -7        -?        -7      -10        -27      -32       -34       -36       -79      -91       -106     -122      -141
Short-tere capital         -179      -102       321      -75       -36       -36       -36      -33       -33         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Erroru&Osissions            -60         6        27        -5        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
fRLL BALANCE                 42       -51     -221      -534      -419      -412      -452      -319     -281      -329      -338      -303      -22       -145       67       317       59S
FINCI2S                     -41        51       221      534       412       412       452       319      281       329       338       303       282       245      -67      -MS 7     -596
IIF. met                   -2         0       32        13        94         0       -15      -27       -33       -40       -13         0        0         0         0         0         0
Increase tn  Re. (-\      -39        51       98       109       -39         0       -13        0       -25       -29       -30       -26      -26       -24       -20       -21       -27
Debt fesic"holo             0         0        92      413       379       333       30Y        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
StP, Oet                    0         0         0        0        -7        79       172       345      339       399       381       329       308       270      -47      -296      -569
_iOM ITfJf
Current kt. ' 8DP (32       3.0      -4.6    -31.2    -13.4    -17.1    -11.6         -9.6     -2.9      -2.2      -1.2      -1.1      -0.3       2.9      4.5       7.4      20.6      IL2
lenrv level, ISP 2t         224       165       116        23       61        61        74        74                1 127     157       193       209       233      254       275       302
Rserves  ots. ispel't)      1.3       0.9       0.7      0.2       0.4       0.4       0.4       0.4      0.5       0.7       0.7       0.9       0.9      0.9       1.0       1.0       1.1
90 Coueitets. ev.SD         I299     I2S        125       157      295       265       245       251      162       124       125       126        70        73        7        b1       ba
PPm  Debt Service iaac.Bapl
- befre rescbdulinq       252       260      300       407       436       416       424      398       416       430       454       485      544       630       697       74f       769
- after recbduling        252       260       217       e1       123       196       262       53       62        719       778       913       843      071       9lS       3Su       796
FPS Dbt Service Retio  isoc.BpI 7.
- befot  reubedulzng     11.6      12.7      25.7     28.0      29.9      26.3      24.2     20.2      19.4      19.3      17.9      17.7      18.0     10.8      29.9    1t.2        :.9
- after reKbebdliog      11.6      12.7      18.1      5.6       0.4      12.4      15.0     30.1      30.9      30.6      30.7      29.7      27.8     26.0      23.2      20.3      17.6
Debt Out. i Babsd. Qc.6&b )
Total. ancd. Oil         1492      1697     2219      2709      335S      3799      4174     4263      432S      4344      4317      4259     4195      4013      360       3107      2327   '9
o/le WP, 140. Gap        1044      1127      2302     1767      2004      2499      293S      3243     3422      3551      36S7      3693      3742     3674      3'33      2994      2327    14
PW8 DOD as 7 of 6DF        29.7      30.9      40.9     51.2      55.8      '5.5      72.2     7S.6      77.0      73.3      69.3      65.6     61.6      56.5      49.9      40.7      29.         '4
PFS Aswt (unc.bep dte s/in
5 "es as 7 Pm  DD0       B6.2      78.4     90.3      83.4      84.7      75.6      65.0     53.0      45.0      34.6      22.1       9.2 l      .      s.c.      n..       n.e.      n..
ECcoto  Rate. FCF4AfUS6     437       449       346      35        275       275       275      300       300       300       30        300      300       30        3         300       300
Petroleum orice. $1061.  $28.12   $26.30    $12.63    $17.00    $16.50    $16.00   $16.00    $17.50    $19.00    $20.90    $22.30    624.00    $26.60    $29.50    $32.60   $36.20   540.00
Bvt. Oil R     e, IlSI      981       990      S?4       213       253       204       237      358       532       632       68        722       795      9d7      1056      1223      2423
1t  PO * Public and Pubically 6uaranted DBt. i.e.. 4aranteed by Bovrosnt of 6alee
Note: Interet and  ortization  ayssots  sm  for PP6 debt are on a scheuled basis. i.e., before recscblwl:t.
21 Cea  in reserve Ieel does not teal chnoe in reserves d   to erchnl rate flctuations.



tableS:  Gabon - National kcounts                                           one Case i442  Oil'
------ -    'billion 19B4 FCFAt                                            fCFA 275 per 235$ 11988-%9' then >                     04-Nar-98
1984      1985       19Q6       19B7       19BB       1989       1990      1W91       1992       199t       1994       25         1996       1997       1999       1999      200
ol VoluvAdded                  69         691         o         629        644       730        920        973        876        986         8o6      86         9          86b         BB        97 B87
No-Ol Value Added               5,}       943        790        661 o       65       679        705        728        750        773        79t        921       948        877        907        930        97h.
2.port Duties                   9          9B         B7         67        64         64         66         67         69         71         73        74          7        79         gi         el         eS
6ross Doostic Product         1536       1633       1541       1356       1373       1472      1592       1668       1095       1730       1755       1791       1911      1642        1974       I907      1942
7trn of Trade Adust.                     -70       -489       -427      -492       -545       -614       -592       -590       -574       -572      -533        -524       -479      -422       -359       -307
Gross tastic Incoae           1536       1563       1053        929       991        927        977       1076       1116       1186       1193       1247       1286       13t      1452       1548      135
Pesostice 6ap                 -305       -213        179        -28        -17       -U         -99       -176       -191       -205       -205       -234       -S0      -2'93      -346       -405       -455
TOTAl AESOVRCES               1231       1350       1231        900       974        863        979        900        925        951        979       1014       1037      i071       110       1143       1180
Investeent                   515       575        489        295        270        268        268        279       288        299        309        320        332        344        357       P3         tSS
Consuaption                  715        715        742       605       S5b         595        620        622        637        653        66t       694        705        727        149        t72        7t
6ross bogstic Savinqs          921        786        311        323        5t       332        367        454        419        503        $14        5S4       582        637        70.         Tob       940
* Factor Service Inc.       -231       -244       -128      -130       -168       -105       -175       -190       -199       -201      -2-2 -202             -2'1       -208       -213       -215       -213
+ turrest transfers          -29        -40        -50       -36        -;:        -20        -19        -19        -19        -19       -19        -19        -20        -20        -0        -21        -21
Gross National Savings         561        504        133        257        106        147       173        245        261        283        294        333        359       410        470        54         *0O
Sross Nation;l Intoae         1305       1319        925        799        72        162        803        886        918        955        992      2045      I2S8        1256       1240       1314       1422        A,
G4ih per cap IFCfA 0u s       1172       1147        935        743       692        705        725        775        795        798       804        932        U43        975        912        951        98b
lNlorandua Itms
Resource Balente I(-01         305        283        311        456      4*9         609        713        768        770        77B        777        767      7t4         771        768        765        762
Etports.  0oo0s 6 NFS        931        920        976       849        869        970       1079       1146       1159     1177       11B        1198       1207       1217       1227       1237       1248
bsorts. goods O NFS          622        637       566        393        370        3t1        3to        379       387        399        410        432        433        446        459       4U3       4Uo
Gross Fited Cap. Fora.         479        560        S10        295       278        268        209        279        288        299        309       320        332        344        357        371        395
Oil Stctor                   102        104         63        71        11        100         9         102        105        108       11         114        tIB        121        125        129        132
Central Government           126        163        130        31         27         32         39         42         45         48         52        55         59         o3         as         72         7e
Other                        251        292        309        193       134        136        130        134        238        142       l46        151        155        164        165       I14         ITS
Public Consumttt,on            2S4        286        239        211       214        221        227        231        230        229        226       224        221        220        2,7        212        2M4
Private Consueption            431       4*8         503       395        3B2        373        394        392        408        424       443        470        483        507        532        5.o        592
Contsuoption per capst4        643        674        670        563       562        551        5SI        S44        545        S46       S47        552        549        55         551 SM1 S52
ICFAF ttousandsl
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   qro.tt rates.      "t per ant       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
6roos Doaestic Product        n.A.        6.3       -5.6     -12.0         1.2       7.2        8.1        4.8        1.6        2.0        1.5       2.5        1.7        1.7        I.8        lI.        1.8
oil                         n.e.       -1.1      -4.0       -5.4        2.5       13.4       12.4        6.4        0.3        1.1       0.0        0.0(I      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Non-oil                     n.a.       12.5      -6.3      -16.4        0.7        1.9        4.1        3.1        3.1        3.0        3.9       3.0        3.4        3.4        3.4        S.4        S.4    on I l
Exports, goods & NFS          n.c.       -1.1      -4.7       -3.1        2.3       lI.t       11.2        6.2        1.('       1.7       0.9        l.i        0.7        o.e        0.B        0.9        0.9     u  c
ltworts. "Wds 5 IlFS          n.a.        1.9     -11.2      -30.3       -5.9       -2.5        1.3        3.3        2.5        3.0       2.7        5.3        0.4        2.9        3.0        S.0        2.9        r
Investmnt                     n.a.       11.7     -15.0      -19.7       -5.6       -3.6        0.'        3.6       3.6        3.6        3.6        3.         3?.        3.7        3.7        3.9        3.9
Consuaption                   n.a.        8.3       -4.3     -29.4       -t.6       -0.1        2.6        2.0        2.4       2.5        2.4        3.7        1.6        3.1        3.1        3          3.0
6ross National Income         P.O.        1.1     -29.9      -13.0       -9.5        5.4        5.4       10.4        3.6       4.1         2.9       o.4        3.6        6.7        7.3        '.6       6o.
Ters of Trade                  100         92         44        SO         45         44         43         49         50        Sl         52         55         57         t1         66         71         75
EXoort Price Index          120          99        46         52         45         44         44         S          55        59         63         67         '4         el         9         98         207
leport Price lndes           100        106       1OS        102        102        100        102        105       109        125        122        123        131        134        136       138        142



Table 6   Babo  - Fvanancial Oweratons of the Central Ad.ieastration                       Base Case 6i16 Dli
-.......        iFCFA bzillions                                                     FCFA 275 per 9SS 11988-90). then 300    04-Oer-
1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       989       WO        1991      I92       IW3       I94        195       IW6       13997     1998      199       2000
REE4A1S5 1 GlANTS        587       632       503       259        25"       235       252       306       371       4*8        453       480       516       567       624        688       764
OIL                      385       400       285         o5        70        56        65       1o0       160        190       206       217       235       272        317       367       424
W-IL TAXES              18        206       203        179       167       1b5       173       184        197       213       230       246       263       277        288       302       21
International           91       106        96        65         6n        58        60        63        67         72        77        82        87        91        94         98       103
Other                  107       100       104        114       107       tO8       114       121        130       141        53       164       176        186       194       204       218
VU-TAUt E.E                4        27         17        14        14        14        14         14       135         6        17        17        IS         18        19        19        20
Orants                   5         5         6          7         7         6         7         7          7         7         8         8         8         9          9         9         9
Other                    0        22         11         7         8         7         8         S                    8         79        9        10         10        30        10        10
TOTL EIPENDItURE        652       715       677        352       330       331       329       352       373        39        424       445       478       498        514       529       550
CURIIS EtPO.             241       261       277        244       246       251       261       274        284       29        311       320       327       332        332       329       327
Nips & Salaries         93       107       115        105        99        98        99       105       111        119       128       136       144       150        155       363       169
Bonds I Services        80        83        87         69        67        66        67        69         72        76        80        83        86        88        89         91        93
Transfers S Sub.        30        30        27        21         36        36        16        15        14         14        14        14        14        14         14        14        14
Interest. sched.        38        41        47                   64        71        78         5        87        89        es         86        83        80        74         64        50
Foreigzt, incl.6      32        31        31        39         50        54        62        71        74        77         77        75        72        o9        64         55        41
Daotetic               7        10        16         30        14        17        16        14         12        12        12        11        it        t0        10         10         9
EITRA-88DSEIARY           72        50        73          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
NET LE1INS                 0         0        24         19         2         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
1SWS9 EII  J8396        339      404        303        89        SO         78        66        73        81        91        103       115       127       139       150        163       180
idir.cp.epd.i          126       174       151        35         30        35        44        49        54        61         69        77        85        93       301        109       121
FMi FNUTU6RE6EIER.         0         0         0          0         2         2         2         5         8          9        10        11        24        27        32         37        42
BAL - COIIITNENTS        -65       -83      -175        -93       -79       -94       -76       -46        -2         19        29        35        38        69        310       158       215
Mw810s                    19        10        77       -30        -17       -17       -17       -17        -17         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
k - cUSm                 -4        -73       -9S      -129        -9       -113       -93       -63       -38         19        29        35        38        69        110       158       215
FIN  E1I4S                46        ?3        98        129        9o       113        93        63         18      -19        -29       -35       -38       -69       -110     -158       -215
FEISNW - NET              32        39        97         77        71       eS         70        -7       -41        -73       -80       -74       -71       -66       -54       -41        -29
Dasbursotnt             94       112       127         55        54        79        r,        76        55        31         30        31        29        26        21         19        16
e"cheulaag               0         0        29         8b        87        82        76         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0          0         0
Asortization           -62       -73       -54        -64       -70       -73       -75       -83       -96      -104       -110      -105      -100       -92       -76        -*0        45
IEStIC - EI               14        34         t         52        29         4         2         3         -4       -4         -4        -4        -4        -4        -4         -4        -4
Cmstral Ba              -8        -3        44         31        Is         4         2         3        -4        -4         -4        -4        -4        -4        -4        -4         -4
Finacial lastlt.        17        34       -35          2         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0
othet                    5        -3       -4         19         14         0         0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         0          0         0
WP. net                    0         0         0         0         -4        20        21        66        63        5S         55        43        37         1       -S2       -It3     -182
NEIN83Nf IIEIIS
Sit, not f FF6             0         0         0         0         -6        18        19        61        55        48         44        32        13       -2r       -83       -150      -224
Revenue I SOP           38.2      38.4      42.9      24.6       24.4      22.4      22.6      24.7      27.8      2S8.       28.8      28.4      28.3      29.1      30.1       31.2      32.2      ;
Oil Rev.  6DP0          25.3      24.3      24.3       6.2        6.8       5.3       5.        8.7      32.0       13.0      13.1      12.8      12.9      14.O      15.3      13.6       37.B      o
Exvpa.ex.FF6 ' 60P      42.5      43.4      57.8      33.4       32.0      31.4      29.2      28.0      27.4       26.8      26.3      25.7      24.9      24.2      23.3       22.3      21.3
Deficit iCati  8 SOP    -4.2      -5.0    -14.9       -8.8       -.7       -9.1      -6.6      -3.7      -0.1       1.3        1.8       2.1       2.3       3.5       5.3        7.2       9.0
Evt.Debt Service   Pevenue
- before Peutted.     15.9      16.5      17,9      38.3      41.9       42.5      40.4      33.7      28.3      25.4       22.5     13.6       18.2      17.2      1.4        17.1      Ift.3
- after fe5ched.      15.9      16.5      12.2       6.4       13.2      18.9      24.1      50.3      45.8      43.3      43.2       37.5      33.5      S8.5      22.3      Ia.6       11.3
Fund Futvre 6eoev L                  i                              2         4         '        1;        21        33         4t        bt        8s       124       t6e       ;1         278
I CEtftltive balance. ancluadno accueulted laterest at 6.5 percent.
Wat.. not tfo"ir.. r....t. - I.. No          "o rF  .1.b...  A.o



C A  M E  R 00   N
*..._  i  ./  * ...o--  ;  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
XA E gU A T QR I A          I  kA#omo.dw                      V K                       OF THE
M t           Gil   A    I~  *m U I
OE. noR10                                                                      CONGO
(RIO MUNI
Santa CIO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~nb
GB -1 A 1'  /                                                0- 0
0.h              T4                                 .  t         )         J     2&                  O
R* Et Stb                                                sa    
XN~~        ~~ , ,    A<EU t                                                r
G00UE'@- __  FGR#S             E Mrigou       mt                      ABON
Q01   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~POLE~
A   C   A- NV -r                                          -;> O GTM         \0-|t
Kibe                   GABON
0C  5 A  N                                                                                            Ft f M 0^ ze
(GhA,,       / (EnA                                                                                      ltJrbu
SuCAIEEROOFt \\3   ,(             <       J   <         f)               *  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uremium
an,03^4y._@    b                       )   /       >                       g   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Iran
r                                                                                                  +  orftt2  aw JANGOLA  f  -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t    al rsr tr_er_lw r
monqwmador
_ \ AN~~CO                                 t                                                           . obradmwosso|_ td mlw pot
U _.__._________________'_____Z
Z   42~~s4'4    o                                                                    om  cptl
ZAIRE                  Nainual cWofia
ICF 4 1,                                                                -.-Fte*o bwlwmes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOnie
Ireraou     bon, o-,      I
ANGOLA                                                                                                                T..a~aI onon



