Page  1
                                                      CONFORMED COPY
                                                LOAN NUMBER 2933 GA
                    (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                               between
                        THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                           AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated April 22, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  April  22,   1988,  between  THE  GABONESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank  has  received  a letter dated March 10,
1988 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies  designed  to  achieve  structural  adjustment of the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and
requesting assistance from the  Bank  in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution and of other activi-
ties relating thereto; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making  the  Loan  in  two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
     of the Program referred to in  the Preamble to the Loan Agreement,
     the performance by the Borrower  and  the Bank of their respective
     obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
     purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "CFA Franc" and the letters  "CFAF" mean the Franc de la
Communaute Financiere Africaine, the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "BEAC" means  Banque  Centrale  des  Etats  de l'Afrique
Centrale;
     (e)  "PE" means a  public  sector enterprise, established and
operating in the Borrower's territory; and
     (f)  "OCTRA", "SNBG"  and  "SEEG",  respectively, mean Office
des Chemins de Fer  Transgabonais,  Societe  Nationale des Bois du
Gabon and Societe d'Energie et d'Eau du Gabon.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment, an amount in various  currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open  and  maintain  in  CFA  Francs  a  special  account  in  the
Libreville branch of BEAC on  terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account
Page  3
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
Page  4
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account, for  each  fiscal year, audited in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
         (i)   maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
        (ii)   retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
       (iii)   enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
        (iv)   ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister  responsible for planification and
economy of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Page  5
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere de la Planification
            et de l'Economie
          B.P. 172
          Libreville, Gabon
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               GOPLAN                           5370 GO
               Libreville
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        THE GABONESE REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Jean-Robert Odsaga
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Ismail Serageldin
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
Page  6
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,    unmanufac-
                                            tured, tobacco refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether  or  not con-
                                            taining  tobacco  sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive  and asso-
                                            ciated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      718                    718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated,    for
                                            nuclear reactors
      897                    897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
      971                       -           Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied  from  the  territory  of  the  Borrower; provided,
however, that if the  currency  of  the  Borrower  is also that of
another country from the  territory  of  which goods are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $40,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military  purpose  or  for  luxury  consumption  or  for petroleum
products; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $15,000,000 for foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to,  or  on the order of, the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent  of $20,000,000, unless the Bank
Page  7
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) with the  progress  achieved  by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement  have been taken and are satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved  and  actions  taken  are  not satisfactory and,
within 90 days  after  such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
     beginning November 1, 1992
     through   November 1, 2000                      2,780,000
On May 1, 2001                                       2,740,000
