Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
<R~. /gCT-G
;'Report No. P"4015-G1l
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.6 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
November 4, 1985
1Th document has a resticted dibutfio and nmy be used by recipients ody in the perfomance of
their Officid dutes b otents my no otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorifaion



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Sy Syli
US$1            -    Sylis 250 -
Sylis 1,000          US$4.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                      3.28 feet
1 square meter (n2)     =   10.76 square feet
1 kilogram              =    2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton            =    0.98 long tons
1 kilometer                  0.62 miles
1 hectare               =    2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDF      -    African Development Fund
BCEP      -    Central Studies Office (Bureau Central d'Etudes
des Projets)
BSD       -    Bureau of Strategy and Development
(Bureau de StratEgie et de Developpement)
EDF       -    European Development Fund
EEC       -    European Economic Community
FAC       -    French Fund for Aid and Conperation (Fonds d'Aide
et de Cooperation)
MDR       -    Ministry of Rural Development (Ministere du
Developpement Rural)
MPRN      -    Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources (Ministere
d'Etat charge du Plan et des Ressources Naturelles)
ONADER    -    Agency for Rice Development (Operation
National pour le D6veloppement Rizicole)
ORG       -    Gueckedou Rice Operation (Operation Riz Gueckedou)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a!     The official exchange rate at appraisal in October 1984 was US$1
24.4 sylis. From October, 1985, the Guinean currency has been
floating according to a market-determined rate, which on
November 1, 1985 st od at US$1=265 sylis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AGRICUl,TURLU SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJFCT SUHKARY
Borrower:                  The Republic of Guinea.
BeneficiRry:              Ministry of Rural Development.
Credit Amount:             SDR 7.6 million (US$ 7.5 million equivalent).
Terms:                     Standard
Cofinancier:               Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC, France)
Project Description:       The project would improve capabilities of the
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) in
agricultural planning, strategy and policy
formulation and proiect analysis. This objective
would be achieved through the establishment of a
Strategy and Development Office (Bureau de
Strat6gie et de Developpement, BSD) in MDT, to be
staffed with qualified Guinean and
internationally recruited personnel. BSD would
focus on: (a) the definition of agricultural
strategy and policy; (b) elaboration and review
of investment plans; (c) monitoring and
evaluation of projects and plan objectives; (d)
project identification, preparation and analysis;
a-nd (e) data collection and analysis. In
addition, during the project period when other
ministerial services are being reorganized and
strengthened, BSD would be responsible for
providing logistical and institutional support
for start-up activities of new rural development
projects and elaborating a long term plan for
agricultural research and irrigation development
in the country. The project provides for (i) 25
staff-years of resident advisors, 105
staff-months of short-term consultant services,
including 55 staff-months for a studv for
improving the organizational structure of 'IDR and
proposing a work program for HDR in all the
provinces, (ii) overseas training for kev staff
through short and medium-term fellowships, and
(iii) construction of an office for BSD and
housing, as well as vehicles, equipment, and
operating costs for BSD.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Benefits:        The main benefits would be training and
development of staff expertise in planning,
policy formulation, project preparation and
evaluation, and improving agricultural data. The
organizational study should lead to an improved
structure of services for the rural sector. The
project would also establish a functional unit in
MDR that would help in and supervise this much
needed reorganization of the ministry's services.
Among the results should be coherent
agricultural investment programs, a clear
definition of rural sector strategy and policies,
including long-term strategies for research and
irrigation, annual production and marketing
statistics, and feasibility studies.
Project Risks:           There are several risks associated with achieving
the project's objectives. The risk that policy
recommendations arising from the project would
not be acted upon is minimized by the emphasis
that the Government places on BSD becoming
operational rapidly, while regular consultatkons
between the Government and the Association i1ll
Improve policy formulation of rural sector
activities. Administrative delays and problems
that could interfere with the project's work
program are lessened by (i) the use of a single
consulting firm to provide the necessary
technical assistance and back-up support, with
the agreement by HDR to adhere to the work
programs proposed, and (ii) the proposal that BSD
be given operational and financial autonomy, as an
Interim term measure while the financial and
administrative services of 'MDR are being
reorganized. Moreover, Guinean senior staff have
been designated to ensure that BSD would function
adequately with the technical assistance
provided.



- iii-
Estimated Project Costs:
Local       Foreign      Total
US$ million--
1. Vehicles and Equipment          -        0.5           0.5
2. Construction                  0.3         0.9          1.2
ILS. Operating Costs             0.5         0.7           1.2
4. Technical Assistance,
Studies and Fellowships         -        4.9           4.9
5. Local Personnel               0.3           -          0.3
Total Base Costs (BSD)           1.1         7.0          8.1
Physical Contingencies        0.1         0.3          0.4
Price Contingencies           0.5         1.1          1.6
TOTAL COSTS                   1.7         8.4         10.1
Proposed Financing Plan
Local       Foreign      Total
-US$ million-
IDA                                   7.5           7.5
FAC                          -        0.9           0.9
Government                 1.7           -          1.7
Total                      1.7        8.4          10.1
Estimated IDA Disbursements :
FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91  FY92
US$ million
Annual                           0.9      1.1    1.5    1.6    1.3    0.8   0.3
Cumulative                       0.9      2.0    3.5    5.1    6.4    7.2   7.5
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
There is no separate Staff Appraisal Report.
Map: IBED 19107



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATTON
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 7.6 MILLION (US$7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 7.6 million (US$7.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Agricultural
Services Project. Additional financing for the project would be provided
by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC, France) for an amount estimated
at the equivalent of US$0.9 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was discussed with
the Government in November 1983 and distributed to the Executive Directors
ln February 1984. This section updates its contents, focusing on changes
-in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent years. More
specifically, the change in Government following the death of President
Sekou Toure in March 1984 has resulted in a radically different political
orientation which enlarges the possibilities for close collaboration
between Guinea and the Association.
3.        Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw
declining economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about
1973-74. Stimulated briefly by the mining sector, the economy grew rapidly
between 1973 and 76, but subsequently slowed to a rate well below that of
population growth. Today, most of Guinea's 5.8 million inhabitants live at
the margin of poverty. With a per capita income of about US$300 in 1984.
Guinea is among the least developed countries as classified by the United
Nations. Life expectancy is only 37 years, infant mortality is about 16
percent, more than 80 percent of the population has no access to safe
water, and similarly 80 percent of the adult population is illiterate.
4.        In the late 1970s, Guinea began reexamining its development
policies, institutions and relations with the outside world. Important
1/   This Part is identical to the President's Reports for the Gueckedou
Agricultural Development and the Mineral Sector Management Projects.



- 2 -
first steps were taken towards improved economic management and
decentralization of the economy. However, only under a new Government,
which took office in April 1984, has Guinea embarked upon a far-reaehing
economic reform program (para. 16). The present Government explicitly
recognizes the need for economic pricing of resources. It further
recognizes the country's need for technical assistance for planning,
investment programming, and project preparation and execution.  State
retail trade has been discontinued. Price controls have been permitted to
lapse, thus liberalizing and encouraging the agricultural sector in
particular. Private investment in all forms is being encouraged, including
foreign direct investment and the return of expatriate Guinean capital.
Private enterprises are now allowed to import and export most goods, for
example, and to borrow and hold foreign exchange. Towards building up the
country's human resource base and tailoring skills to the needs of the
economy, primary education is to be revamped and strengthened, while
enrollment in higher education has been severely reduced and vocational
training expanded. Manpower planning is being introduced, and the policy
of guaranteeing state employment to school graduates has been reappraised
to curtail increases in public employment and the wage bill. These
measures represent fundamental changes from past policies and reflect a
significant and broadly based attempt to address the deep-seated problems
which underline Guinea's poor economic performance.
Recent Performance
5.        Output of the economy is estimated to have grown at an average
annual rate of ;.5 percent in real terms over the five-year period up
through 1984. Although economic growth has fluctuated modestly in that
period, it has consistently remained below the rate of population increase
of nearly 3 percent per annum. A temporary upturn in 1982-83 was moreover
narrowly based, resulting from a rise in construction activity due chiefly
to preparations for the OAU conference that was to be held in Conakry in
May 1984. Much of the economy produces at levels well below potential.
The primary sector, while the most important in the economy (more than 40
percent of GDP), produces below potential due to inadequate price policies
and other incentives. Apart from mining, secondary activity (more than 20
percent of GDP) is similarly weak. In particular, the manufacturing
sector, constituted mainly of public enterprises, produces at less than 15
percent of capacity and registers heavy losses. The tertiary sector
accounts for a relatively heavy 35 percent of GDP.
6.        Although Guinea has consistently realized a surplus on trade
account, these surpluses have been more than offset by rising net service
payments and private transfer payments, important official transfer
receipts notwithstanding. Net capital inflows have not been sufficient to
offset the resulting current account deficits. An important factor is
heavy capital flight from the country, the exact magnitude of which is
unrecorded. Guinea has consequently suffered continual reductions in net
foreign assets since 1979, estimated net reserves having dropped to a
negative US$205 million as of end-1984. In addition, Guinea has incurred a
massive accumulation of external debt arrears. At US$223 million as of
end-1984, these arrears represented more than 40 percent of annual
merchandise export earnings.



- 3 -
7.        The Government's own financial situation has been seriously
eroded since 1980, at which time it was in approximate equilibrium. The
erosion is attributable chiefly to poor performance in the parastatal
sector. Receipts from enterprises from taxes and customs duties on food
and services in particular have declined as the private sector has grown to
dominate consumer trade. Similarly, non-tax revenue in the form of trans-
fers from the parastatals to the capital budget have dropped sharply, this
due largely to reduced profits of IMPORTEX, the State trading company, as
its de jure monopoly has been undermined by private importers. Government
revenue has consequently stagnated in nominal terms at a level of GS 10-11
billion annually in all but one year over the period 1980-84. In 1984,
despite drastic reductions in subsidies to public ent.rprises and a cut in
capital outlays to half their level only two years earlier, the overall
budgetary deficit climbed steeply to GS 3.0 billion, equivalent to nearly
30 percent of receipts.
8.        Other than the enclave mining projects, most investment in Guinea
is undertaken by public and parapublic institutions. During the 1973-78
development plan period, public investment amounted to a cumulative US$478
million (55 percent of planned expenditure), equivalent to 10 percent of
CDP. The subsequent 1981-85 plan projected a more than doubled rate of
investment and favored collectivized agriculture (31 percent) and industry
(14 percent). However, actual public investment 1981-84 averaged only
US$200 million per year, about the same proportion of GDP as in the
previous plan exercise. Many of the proposed projects remain in
preliminary stages of preparation, and their financing is unlikely. The new
Government, with the help of the Association, is reassessing its project
priorities. Pending the outcome of this assessment, the Government decided
in April 1985 to limit investment to on-going, viable projects with assured
foreign financing. Under the recently approved Technical Assistance
Project for Economic Management (Credit 1559-GUI), the Government will
completely revamp its public investment plan and will introduce in 1986 a
three-year rolling program based on a thorough review of sector and macro
priorities.
9.        Recognizing the need to improve maintainance and utilization of
existing capital assets, the Government has increased the proportion of its
recurrent budget for equipment and supplies, including provision for an
important road maintenance program partly supported by the Association. It
is also undertaking a serious examination of the viability of state
enterprises. The least successful ones (including the entire network of
retail trade enterprises outside Conakry) are being closed down. Others
have embarked on rehabilitation programs, mostly with external assistance.
Restructuring of the public industrial sector has started with a major
divestiture and liquidation exercise. It is intended that parastatals that
remain will be financially self-sufficient, autonomous in their management,
responsive to market mechanisms and receptive to technical assistance.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
10.       Since the mid-1970s, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of
foreign assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized
countries and through expanded relations with Arab nations and multilateral



- 4 -
institutions. Although Giiinea successfully negotiated a Stand-by with the
IMF in 1982, the arrangement lapsed owing to the Government's inability to
meet some of the agreed performance criteria and to reach an understanding
with the Fund on exchange rate adjustment. A new Stand-by with the IMF is
expected to be concluded shortly.
11.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investment in
infrastructure and public enterprises has resulted in a burden of foreign
obligations which is excessive in relation to Guinea's debt servicing
capacity. Outstanding public external debt reached US$1.6 billion as of
the end of 1984, of which US$1.2 billion was disbursed. Service
obligations on this debt are projected to average US$132 million per annum
in 1985-87, as against average annual payments oI only US$83 million in the
1982-84 period. In 1984, the ratio of scheduled service obligations to
export earnings was 34 percent, whereas actual service payments amounted to
only 20 percent of export receipts. Moreover, scheduled debt service on
private non-guaranteed debt of an estimated US$300 million outstanding
represented an additional 11 percent of 1984 export earnings.
12.       It is evident that Guinea's already heavy payments arrears will
continue to rise substantially in the absence of a major, across-the board
debt rescheduling. In the past, the Government addressed the debt problem
through bilateral rescheduling and measures to improve debt management by
the External Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Association
provided technical advice as part of its economic work. Further technical
assistance is underway at the Central Bank, and a request to the Paris Club
and other creditors for a multilateral debt rescheduling is anticipated
once an IMF Stand-by arrangement is in place, tentatively early 1986. The
Government has also undertaken strict control of public borrowing abroad to
ensure that it is contracted exclusively for priority investment projects
and on fully concessional terms. Guinea will in fact have to rely on
substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessional terms during the
next few years. This will be needed not only for investment purposes,
including local cost and recurrent cost financing, but also to provide
foreign exchange for intermediate and consumer goods imports which are
vital to relieve supply constraints and stimulate economic activity,
particularly in the rural sector.
Prospects
13.       Guinea's long-term development possibilities based on its
agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential are substantial.
However, given modest national savings (8.5 percent of GDP in 1984) and
acute shortages of foreign exchange, the exploitation of this potential
hinges on the country's ability to provide incentives to agricultural
producers and to attract foreign capital for investment in mining,
agro-industry and, possibly, petroleum development.
14.       To correct Guinea's excessive dependence on bauxite mining for
its foreign exchange, diversification of its mineral production is a key
element in the country's longer-term development strategy. A new diamond
mining operation was started up in 1984. Iron ore mining is a further
possibility now under active investigation, as are oil exploration and
development of other minerals. In the agricultural sector, following a



major Sector Review (GUI-4672, April 15, 1984) organized by the Bank with
the support of several other agencies (CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO),
the Government has launched an important reform of its agricultural
policies to stimulate production of cash crops for export, such as coffee
and pineapples. A long-term agricultural strategy and investment program
are now under preparation with the Association's assistonce. This is
described more fully in Part III below.
15.       These initiatives notwithstanding, Guinea will continue to face
serious foreign exchange constraints through the 1980s. Prospects for
foreign exchange earnings in the mining sector will remain governed by
international bauxite markets, which confront a difficult outlook through
at least the medium term. The downward trend in agricultural exports
experienced in recent years will not be easily reversed, even with imminent
correction of price distortions associated with the highly overvalued
exchange rate. Similarly, expanded domestic production of foodstuffs
sufficient to substitute for a significant share of Guinea's presently high
level of imports can be expected to take place only over the medium term.
16.       Towards realizing Guinea's longer term development potential, the
Association and the IMF are assisting the Government in formulating and
implementing a comprehensive economic reform program. The program aims at
encouraging private sector development, notably agriculture, while at the
same time increasing the efficiency of the public sector. The program
indeed represents a dramatic reversal of the previous regime's economic
policies in greatly reducing the Government's involvement in directly
productive activity and opening up the economy as a whole to the private
sector. Particularly crucial will be a major devaluation with accompanying
measures to correct price distortions throughout the economy. The first
steps in the devaluation have already been taken. These include the
opening of a "Second Window" for limited foreign exchange operations at a
market-determined exchange rate. The authorities have also tightened
budgetary controls and rationalized the programming of public investment.
A total overhaul of the banking system, including the liquidation of the
existing specialized Government banks and the start-up of operations of
foreign-assisted banking institutions will substantially improve support
for trade and other private sector activity. Also underway is a broadscale
public enterprise divestiture program. Finally, to alleviate its burden of
external debt, Guinea plans to seek a multilateral debt rescheduling in
early 1986, as mentioned in para. 12, and to limit its foreign borrowing to
that which can be secured on appropriately concessional terms.
17.       The Association has recently appraised a Structural Adjustment
program and is assisting the Government in mobilizing the support of other
donors. This support, together with an IMF Stand-by arrangement, will be
crucial for Guinea in easing the balance of payments situation in a
difficult transition period and in contributing to a gradual realization of
the country's considerable development potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
18.       The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in
FY68 and FY71 for the profitable bauxite mining project at Bok6. This



project was followed by IDA credits in the mid-1970s for pineapple
production   and the rehabilitation of roads.  Encouraged by the first
results of these projects, the Bank Groun began to diversify and expand its
lending program, based upon broad priorities agreed with the Government:
(i) rehabilitation and maintenance of basic infrastructure, (ii)
improvement of human resources; (iii) mining development; and (iv)
development of the rural sector. IDA operations in each of these areas
have placed particular emphasis on sectoral planning, institution building
and training. The FY79 First Education Project was very satisfactorily
implemented, and provided a sound basis for the Second Education Project,
which is proceeding well. The First Power Project (FY81), co-financed with
France and Germany. began the rehabilitation of the Conakry power system.
Following the conclusions of the UNDP-financed Water Resources Master Plan,
for which the Bank was executing agency, a Second Power Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project has recently started. It would strengthen the
power public utility and prepare a major hydroelectric project to meet
electricity demand in the early 1990s. A Water Supply project (FY79)
provides similar assistance, and was partially the precursor of the Conakry
Urban Development project (FYB4), which assists the Government in managing
urban growth in the capital region. A Second Water Supply Project is being
proposed for Conakry and secondary centers. The Second Highway Project was
successfully completed in 1984 and Highways ITI (FY84), which includes the
reconstruction of the country's first priority road link, continues with a
third phase of maintenance and rehabilitation under a revamped highway
organization. Implementation of the renovation works under the Conakry
Port Project (FY83) is also on schedule. Public enterprise rehabilitation
programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation Promotion Project (FY81) have
begun, although the uncertain climate for private investment before the
change of Government, and the absence of functioning financial
institutions, have limfrted efforts under the project to promote small and
medium private enterprise. Other operations to assist efforts to promote
private investment, a first IFC loan and investment for the AREDOR diamond
mining company, and the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (FY84),
have also started well despite some technical set-backs.
19.       It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing development potential. Support for small
private producers, including marketing and financial incentives, and access
to modern technology and applied agricultural research, was almost
nonexistent before the change of Government. Since April 1984, however,
the Government and the Association have agreed on an expansion in IDA-
supported agricultural operations. This hes led to the preparation of the
proposed project, and also to the Gueckedou Agricultural Development
Project that is being submitted simultaneously to the Executive Directors.
A Livestock Rehabilitation Project is also under preparation. The Associa-
tion's role in the agricultural sector is discussed in Part III. Other
agricultural projects addressing the sector's institutional and training
needs are being prepared in the context of a long-term program to revital-
ize smallholder agriculture.
20.       Bank Group operations in Guinea now include sixteen IDA Credits
totalling US$202.7 million, and two Bank loans totalling US$73.5 million.
Guinea's disbursement rate of 62 percent in FY84 (disbursements in relation
to the undisbursed balance) compares very favorably with that of other



- 7 -
countries at similar levels of per capita income and development. Its
disbursement profile matches the Regional profile.
21.       Current Assistance Strategy.  The proposed Bank Group lending
program, supported by an expanded program of economic and sector work, is
based on a strategy of encouraging key policy reforms at the national,
project and sector levels. These aim to improve economic mechanisms by
promoting market forces, and thus would begin the structural adjustment of
the Guinean economy. Support to the directly productive sectors would
increase the rate of economic growth. Specific targets are: (a) provid-
ing, with other donors, financing for imports needed to increase produc-
tion, in support of the structural adjustment features of the overall
reform program; (b) giving priority to policy-based projects that increase
production, particularlv in the agricultural sector; (c) introducing
technical assistance directed towards policy reforms, improved economic
management a,d resource allocation; (d) improving absorptive capacity in
those social and infrastructure sectors which support the productive
sectors, through rehabilitation, and technical and managerial training; and
(e) improving capital flows through the promotion of private direct invest-
ment and increasing the level of cofinancing. Through its support for
sectoral strategies and investment programs, the Association will help the
Government mobilize the necessary increased financial support from other
donors, and plans to organize a Consultative Croup.
22.       The Association is planning to expand agricultural operations
once the monetary reform has created the needed incentive structure for
smallholder agriculture, in the context of a long-term strategy for agri-
cultural development, which is under preparation. It is equally important
for the Bank to deepen its understanding of the industrial sector through
additional sector work and policy discussions, possibly leading to a second
industrial rehabilitation operation once the Government has defined its
industrial policy and the role of public enterprises. The Association is
also providing technical advice to the Government for possible
diversification of mining activities, and a mineral development project,
which includes promotion of secondary minerals and further work on the
proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron ore project, is ready for presentation to the
Executive Directors.
23.       The Bank Group's share of Guinea's disbursed external debt
(public and publicly guaranteed) at the end of 1984 stood at about 11
percent, compared with 8 percent in 1981. The Bank Group's share of
service on public and publicly guaranteed debt, 6.6 percent in 1980, is
expected to decline to 3.5 percent by 1987.
PART ITTI - THE RIRAL SECTOR
24.       Guinea's rural sector has a diverse ecological base with the
potential for producing a large part of the country's needs in rice and
other food crops as well as producing large quantities of coffee, cotton,
copra, bananas, pineapples and other fresh fruits and livestock for local
consumption, processing and export. At Independence in 1958, agricultural



commodities accounted for about 58 percent of export receipts with food
imports making up just about 12.5 percent of agricultural export receipts.
Between 1976 and 1981, however, agriculture contributed only about 3
percent to export receipts and the value of food imports exceeded that of
agricultural exports by an average of US$ 35 million per annum or 2.3
percent of GDP. At the same time food crop production has not kept pace
with population increase and food imports now represent about 16 percent of
total imports. Agriculture still provides a livelihood for about 80
percent of Guinea's population but with the growth of the mining sector its
contribution to GDP has fallen from 46 percent in 1973 to 41 percent in
1982.
25.       Rice is the dominant crop in Guinea in all regions except in the
impoverished soils of Guinea's upland plateau, the Fouta Djalon, where it
takes second place in area terms to small millet, "fonio" (Digitaria 9p.).
Rice is Guinea's main food staple and national production is estimated at
about 400,000 tons of paddy per year. Until the change in government
(April 1984) and abolition of compulsory marketing through state agencies,
most farmers preferred to produce for home consumption with only minor
quantities going into either local parallel markets or the Government's
official marketing structures.
Objectives and Strategy
26.       The main objectives in the rural sector, as they are evolving
under the new regime are to promote cereal production for food
self-sufficiency, to increase export production, and to raise the standard
of living of the rural population. These objectives reflect the
recommendations of the recent Agricultural Sector Review Report
(No.GUI-4672) prepared by IDA. Because of several years of neglect of
agriculture, a number of issues remain to be resolved to permit an
expansion of rural sector activities. The main issues affecting the sector
include: (i) inappropriate pricing and marketing systems for agricultural
products; (ii) the complete absence of effective and functional
agricultural services for farmers (such as extension, research, input
supply, credit, etc.); (iii) an overstaffed Ministry with poorly trained
personnel and ill-adapted structures; and (iv) lack of resources to permit
a properly functioning rural development Ministry.
27.      The strategy being adopted by the Government to resolve these
issues is still emerging but includes measures: (a) to improve smallholder
agriculture, through services and incentives to farmers and liberalizing
marketing of produce; (b) to reorganize and streamline agricultural
services (extension, research, credit etc.) and concentrate such services
on smalbholders; (c) to improve rural infrastructure, develop the country's
irrigation potential, and make agricultural inputs available to
smallholders; and (d) to establish a properly functioning central ministry
and develop its planning, investment review and supervision capability.
These measures are being supported by the Association through the proposed
project, a recently appraised structural adjustment credit (SAC), and a
study of the national organization and services in the agricultural sector
aimed at identifying programs for strengthening the structure and
functioning of the ministry (para 28) for support by the donor community.



-9-
Agricultural Services
28.       Organization.  Until the change in government in April 1984,
three ministries were responsible for rural development in Guinea. These
were the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the Ministry of FAPAs
(District Collective Farms or "Fermes Agro-Pastorales d'Arrondissement"),
and the Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries. Responsibility for extension
activities before April 1984 was in theory shared by the Ministry of
Agriculture field level staff and the FAPAs. In practice however, there
was no effective extension provided to smallholders, except under the
IDA-supported Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI), because of the
Government's emphasis on collective farms, the lack of resources for the
ministry, and the inability of the FAPAs to perform even their primary role
as production units. In April 1984 the Ministry of PAPAs was merged with
the Ministry of Agriculture, and in an administrative reorganization in
December 1984 a single Ministry of Rural Development (hDR) was created
merging the Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock. This single ministry
is responsible for all aspects of rural development including extension.
The field level structure in all areas except the Gueckedou region,
however, has not been touched and thus responsibility and functions at this
level remain to be defined. Through a PPF advance that would be refinanced
through the proposed Credit for the Gueckedou Agricultural Project being
presented simultaneously to the Executive Directors, IDA is financing a
reorganization and master plan study of MDR that would propose a work
program for each of the seven provinces of the country for the next ten
years and estimate the manpower and financial needs to carry out such a
program. To ensure that the work program is efficiently carried out, the
study would propose an organizational structure for the MDR to cover field
level operations as well as to create a fully functional headquarters, and
it would examine ways of privatizing as many agricultural services as
possible. Another product from the study would be a recommendation on ways
to integrate various externally funded projects into the organizational
structure of MDR.
29.       Agricultural Research.  Except for recent research efforts
undertaken in externally financed projects such as the ongoing Rice
Development Project, agricultural research has been completely neglected in
Guinea since Independence. Guinea's main research stations have been short
of equipment and operating funds and all the stations have insufficient
trained staff except for the stations at Baro, IalmAlo near Gueckedou, and
Koba wbich are managed by the Rice Development Agency, ONADER, that was set
up under the Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI). In general
agricultural research work in Guinea is not well coordinated since some of
the stations are under the Ministry of Higher Education while others are
under MDR, without any mechanism for coordinating actions under the two
ministries.



- 10 -
Sector Lending and Strategy
30.       Lending Experience in the Sector.   IDA has financed three
projects in Guinea's rural sector. Their implementation was difficult
under the former regime.  The DaboyaJ pineapple Project (FY76) involving the
development of an industrial estate with some outgrowers was completed to
satisfactory technical standards. It has experienced financing and output
marketing difficulties since its completion, but with the public sector
reforms planned by the new Government, foreign firms will be invited to
join the project entity to increase production and exports. A Rice
Development Project (FY80) was designed to assist Guinea's key resource in
the rural sector, smallholder agriculture. The design of the project was a
novelty in that Government policy was generally to favor coLlective
farming, and hence the prnject dtd not enjoy whole-hearted support in all
quarters during its apprais:Il ;ind early implementation. The project had
two components, a national component, ONADER, to improve rice sector
planning and restart rice research, and the pilot component, Gueckedou Rice
Operation, ORO, to improve swamp and upland rice productivity on some 2,700
family farms In a small part of Gueckedou region. Despite particularly-
ularly difficult initial years the ORG component has been able to achieve a
reasonable part of the objectives set at appraisal. The national component
of the FY80 project has only been partially successful, with a consultant's
study on rural incentives financed under the project serving as a key
element in subsequent agricultural policy discussions, and agricultural
research in the project representing the only ongoing and active research
activities in the country. Management inexperience and inefficiencies, a
dearth of trained national staff, and a high technical assistance staff
turnover have limited ONADER's capacity to do much planning. The ORG
component has however provided a development approach that has been
recognized as a viable alternative to collective agriculture pursued in the
past. With the new Government's commitment to improve the performance of
the economy, and its emphasis on smallholders, this approach would be
applied to the whole sector. A Livestock Development Project (FY81)
focussed on cattle health through upgraded "eterinary services. The
project was cancelled in September 1983 because of the Government's failure
to dismantle the state livestock marketing agency as had been agreed under
the Credit. The new Covernment has however dissolved the agency and a new
Livestock Sector Rehabilitation project was appraised in April 1985.
31.      Sector Strategy.  In addition to the focus on smallholders,
Guinea's agricultural strategy now recognizes the opportunity to introduce
wide ranging policy and organizational reforms. This Is being done through
the proposed project, and a SAC that is expected to be presented to the
Executive Directors later this fiscal year. The main objectives of this
sector strategy are to: (i) seek to increase productivity of smallholders
in both food and export crop production, with an early focus on rice,
coffee and fruit crops; (ii) develop satisfactory incentives for farmers;
(iii) enhance the Government's capabilities for policy formulation,
investment planning and project identification and preparation; (iv)
improve overall organization of rural development services including
manpower and structural planning of the MDR; and (v) help create effective
and efficient field level support services (extension, research, data
collection, monitoring and evaluation, credit, and input supply).



Project Rationale
32.       The Planning Process Inherited by the New Government.  The
planning process in Guinea has been a combination of decentralized project
preparation and centralized planning, with the technical ministries
concentrating on project preparation. In practice, there has been little
sectoral or sub-sectoral planning within the technical ministries.
Detailed project preparation has been undertaken usually only when projects
were expected to be submitted for donor finance, and generally with heavy
donor involvement. To date there has been no program planning and only the
beginnings of sector investment programs, generally, again, at donor
urging. Under the previous and highly centralized government, once the
Plan, prepared by the Directorate-General of Planning and Statistics
(DGPS), was adopted by political bodies, projects were examined for
conformity with its largely non-economic objectives, although sometimes
review of the economic justification of project proposals was made. Most
often, once the Central Studies Office (Bureau Central d'Etudes des
Projets, BCEP, an agency that was attached to the Presidency before its
dissolution in January 1985), was to review the economic and institutional
aspects of projects, and the technical ministry responsible for preparation
and execution of a project submitted it to the Council of Ministers for
approval, projects had already reached a very advanced stage and were near
approval or negotiation with potential donors or suppliers. The
Association's Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management (Credit
1559-GUI, SDR 9.7 million, FY85) aims to place planning and economic
management on a more systematic basis, in particular by reinforcing the
planning and statistics capabilities of the Ministry of Planning and
Natural Resources.
33.       The planning unit of the MDR, like all other technical
ministries, has a very low capacity to undertake studies and develop
strategy. It has hence been little involved in formulating rural sector
policies or preparing new projects for the sector. It lacks statistics on
the rural sector and does no systematic gathering of information. This
greatly hampers efforts to adequately plan activities. Besides, rural
sector projects are frequently proposed by equipment suppliers, consulting
firms and potential private partners with a commitment to obtain financing
or to provide management services with little or no involvement of the
ministry's planning unit. This unit, which should normally review such
projects, does not have the capacity to do so. There is also a scarcity of
adequately trained personnel, office space, office equipment, basic
supplies and reference material, which has a detrimental effect on working
conditions.
34.       Much will need to be done to bring the performance of the staff
of the MDR up to the standard needed to mount a sustained development
effort. The secrecy and absolute centralization of decision-making
practiced by the former regime did not permit staff development and
training. There are cases of long-term personnel that have received no
on-the-job training, formal upgrading or training courses to improve their
skills. Large numbers of younger staff, recent graduates of the
universities in Guinea, have few years of experience and have never worked
in an efficient, functioning administration. This scarcity of experienced
and skilled personnel is aggravated by the lack of a systematic approach to



- 12 -
problem solving, and to work generally. and a lack of motivation resulting
from low salaries and unavailability of the means with which to work.
Through the Techni..l Assistance Credit, and in support of the structural
adjustment prograni. el-forts are being made to improve economic performance
in general and to upgrade the skill levels in the core economic management
ministries in particular. The proposed project would help improve the
skill level of an Important unit in the MDR and help Government realize the
objectives it has set Itself.
35.       Rationale for the Proposed Project.  Through the Rice Development
Project's ONADER component (para. 30), the Association became actively
involved in technical assistance at the ministry level. This has included
a national study on rural prices and incentives, development of three
research stations and, following the Government change, the involvement of
ONADER staff (both local and expatriate) in ministry activities especially
in socio-economic studies, strategy development and investment review. The
above rural incentives study (para. 28), which formed the basis for a
comprehensive Agricultural Sector Review Report by the Association, has
helped the Government orient its policy in the sector. The Government is
therefore seeking to strengthen agricultural project selection, and
development of organizational and institutional strategy. IDA's experience
in the sector, coupled with its recent focus on sector work as well as the
productive macro-zcononic discussions IDA has had with the Government, have
created a sound basis for IDA support for improving the performance of MDR.
The proposed project fits in well with Guinea's strategy for the rural
sector and would help Government and other donors identify and remove the
bottlenecks to the sector's sustained development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project is in part a follow-up of the national Rice
Development Agency (ONADER) component of the Rice Development Project
(Cr. 952-GUI, FY80) and in part a technical assistance project stemming
from the need to improve the planning and evaluation capacity of the
Ministry of Rural Development (MDR).  It was prepared by the Government and
IDA staff and appraised In October 1984, together with the Gueckedou
Agricultural Development Project. Negotiations were held in Washington on
August 1, 1985 with a delegation led by Mr Tolo Bavogui, Guinea's
Ambassador to the United States. There is no separate Staff Appraisal
Report. Supplementary project data appear in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
37.       The project would assist the Government to improve the capacity
of the MDR in rural sector planning, strategy and policy formulation and
project analysis.  Tt expands on the objectives set for ONADER in the Rice
Development Project by absorbing ONADER into the studies unit of MDR, the
Bureau of Strategy and Development (BSD), an appropriately staffed and
equipped core unit, that will serve as the main advisory body for the
Minister of Rural Development. The project would also follow up the
research and rural works components of the Rice Development Project by
developing long-term research and irrigation programs for the sector and



- 13 -
providing back-up technical, supervisory and logistic support for new
projects and especially for a pilot rice development program in the Koba
region of maritime Guinea, to be financed by the European Development Fund
(EDF). While conceived as a follow-up operation to the ONADER component of
the Rice Development Project, the scope of the proposed project is
substantially wider and covers the rural sector as a whole, not just rice.
To ensure that all reasonable recommendations are acted upon quickly, the
Government has agreed to regularly consult with IDA on the outputs that BSD would
produce (Annex V).
38.       The main components of the project would be training of Guinean
staff and the establishment of BSD. Training would be on the job and
through seminars and short- and medium-term fellowships (para. 47). The
Immediate objectives of BSD would be to develop rural sector strategy and
policies, to plan and review investments, to identify and help prepare new
projects, to collect and analyze agricultural data, to monitor and evaluate
ongoing rural sector activities and to provide logistic and some technical
support for new rural development projects. In the first three years, as
the Gcvernment tries to reorganize and improve the performance of the
various technical departments of MDR, the BSD would elaborate a long-term
strategy for development of agricultural research and small-scale
irrigation and would monitor the rural sector activities of the MDR and
other ministries. One of the first activities of the BSD would be to
review the PPF-financed reorganization and master plan study (para. 28),
prepare a work program and timetable for implementing the recommendations
of the study and a first three-year tranche of rural sector investments.
The work program with proposals for restructuring agricultural services in
the country would be discussed with IDA before September 30, 1986. Aside
from financing resident specialists, consultants, fellowships, vehicles and
equipment and other operating costs, the project provides for construction
of housing for the resident experts and office space including a modest
training centre for BSD. The Government has already allocated some land in
Conakry for the construction.
39.       Strategy and Policy Planning and Development:  The project
provides for an expatriate specialist in rural sector planning, to assist
the staff of BSD in developing a strategy for the sector, defining
policies, and elaborating an investment plan. A Planning Division within
BSD would be responsible for this activity and would coordinate with other
BSD Divisions and the Technical Departments of MDR in developing the
strategy. More specifically, the project would finance the expatriate plus
the operating costs of the division for four years. The Division would
define an agricultural sector strategy and propose policies affecting,
inter alia, prices, marketing, food and export crop production, input
distribution, small-scale irrigation, livestock and forestry development,
according to a timetable to be agreed with the Association before June 30,
1986.  The Planning Division would coordinate the preparation and revision
of the agricultural part of the three-year rolling investment program to be
agreed on between IDA and the Government under the Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 1559-GUI, FY85). The expert would have responsibility for
coordinating the activities of the other technical divisions in BSD, and
for training appropriate Guinean counterparts assigned to this Division.



- 14 -
40.       Project Identification and Evaluation:  The project provides for
a resident agricultural economist for four years to help and train BSD
staff in identifying and preparing new projects and in analyzing and
reviewing investment proposals. This specialist would support the
work-program of BSD's Projects Division that would be responsible for the
economic and financial analysis of the projects to be included in the
rolling investment program (para. 39). Working closely with BSD's Planning
Division and the Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources (MPRN), the
Projects Division would review the sector investment program emerging from
the PPF-financed study and would prepare for discussion with IDA by
December 31, 1986 a summary analysis of all rural sector projects in
execution and planned to start before 1988 together with a timetable for
analyzing the benefits and costs of those projects. The Division would
also update annually the rural sector projects included in the three year
rolling investment program agreed to under the IDA financed Technical
Assistance Project.
41.       Monitoring and Evaluation:  The project would finance a resident
specialist for three and a half years, vehicles and equipment and the
operating costs of a Monitoring and Evaluation Division within BSD. The
main activity of this Division would be to assist in the establishment of
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) units within projects, help train the staff
of such units in the required M&E systems, and assist the units to prepare
their work programs, and supervise the execution of such work-programs.
The M&D division would prepare, in consultation with project directors, and
discuss with the Association before June 30, 1987, a simple manual (to be
updated periodically) to be used by projects to prepare management
information systems.   The M&E systems would facilitate the preparation of
work programs, enable physical and financial progress to be monitored and
project reporting to be improved. The activity of the M&E Division would
be geared towards standardizing M&E methodologies by introducing simple and
straightforward criteria for monitoring rural development projects.
Together with BSD's Statistics Division (para. 42), the H&E Division wouid
provide technical support to Project M&E Units in survey design and data
collection methodologies. As part of its task the M&E Division would also
be responsible for preparing project completion reports, analyzing what
impact, if any, projects have had on the economy in general and the
concerned subsector or area in particular.
42.       Statistics and Data Collection:  The project would provide BSD
with a full-time agro-statistician and would incur for three and a half
years, the operating costs of a Statistics Division. Consultant
sociologists and statisticians on shorter assignment would support the work
program of the Division as necessary. The initial activity of the Division
would be to define a work-program, to be agreed on with the Association
before December 31, 1986, for statistical activities and methods for MDR
based on identified data needs that would permit the collection of useful
production, marketing and price statistics. Based on the work program, the
Division would begin sample surveys aimed at producing a first set of
estimates for agricultural production and cultivated area by June 30, 198B.
To prepare staff for the start of the statistics work, two Guinean
agro-economists would be sent abroad on a one year statistics training
course during the first project vear.



- 15 -
43.       Agricultural Research and Small-Scale Irrigation Strategy:
During the first three years, the Project will provide MDR's Research and
Rural Engineering Departments with an expatriate researcher and an
expatriate rural engineer to help develop long-term strategies and plans
for research and small-scale irrigation development. Under a bilateral
agreement with Government, FAC has agreed to provide the researcher and the
rural engineer. Though the two specialists would work directly witb the
Research and Rural Engineering Departments of MDR. they would receive
administrative and logistical support, in the form of vehicles and
operating expenses, from BSD. With the assistance of these experts, the
two departments would make a detailed inventory of existing research and
minor irrigation activities in the country and propose ways of better
organizing these. The Research Department would be required to establish
before June 30, 1987 the current agricultural production pattern and
potential of the various ecological zones, and determine the status of
agricultural .-esearch, its structure and accomplishments as well as
availability of and needs for human and material resources and facilities,
both in the short- and medium-term. Following the PPF-financed
reorganization and master plan study (para. 28) which would also develop a
strategy for improving agricultural services, and taking into account the
recommendations resulting from the detailed inventory, the Government would
discuss with the Association its long-term research and small-scale
irrigation strategy, including a work program for identifying and preparing
a national research program and instituting hydrological and meteorological
data collection systems to determine, before December 31, 1987, the
potential for irrigation development.
44.       Logistical Support for New Projects:  In the Rice Development
Project (Cr. 952-GUI), ONADER was responsible for project management and as
such has served as a useful support service for the Gueckedou Rice
Operation, ORG, which was executing a pilot rice component of the project
at Gueckedou, some 700 km from Conakry. It also provided some technical
back-stopping for ORG and the three research stations financed under the
Rice Development Project. Under the proposed project, as ONADER becomes
part of BSD, it is intended that BSD should provide some logistical and
technical support for new projects being implemented. The technical
support would come in the form of support for Monitoring and Evaluation and
missions by the various technical divisions to ongoing projects.
Logistical support would however depend on the needs for each individual
project and would have to be discussed between BSD and the projects on a
case by case basis. It would, in general, involve administrative support
for procurement, finance, and communications. The Government would however
establish before March 31, 1986 fairly standard criteria for all new
projects on the form that BSD logistical support would take.
45.       One such new project in which a logistical support and
supervisory role for BSD is envisaged is the Koba pilot project (a rice
area development project) in the maritime region of Guinea to be financed
by the European Development Fund (EDF). The IDA-assisted Rice Development
Project financed a research station at Koba. Though the research results
were somewhat disappointing, enough was learnt about applicable technical
packages for the region to permit the start of a pilot rehabilitation
program of a sweet water plain and extension activity on mangrove rice.
EDF has decided to finance this pilot program and continue the research



- 16 -
activities started in the Rice Development Project. Given the importance
of developing rice production in the maritime region, in view of its
proximity to Conakry, the main rice consuming centre, the Government has
asked BSD to provide logistical and technical support, through monitoring
and evaluation, research and irrigation development back-up for the Koba
pilot project. The technical divisions would supervise and contribute to
the Koba pilot project. From time to time, IDA supervision missions would visit
the pilot project and other projects BSD is asked to monitor, to assess
progress. To ensure that BSD's project support capacity is not overloaded,
IDA would review BSD's annual work program each year (para 50).
46.       Consultants and Studies:  The project provides for a total of 105
staff-months of consultant time (of which 55 staff-months have been used in
the PFF-financed reorganization and master plan study (para. 28)), 20
staff-months to prepare a master plan for the agro-industrial sector and 30
staff-months for specialist consultants. The latter would be in training
(para. 47), sociology, fisheries, forestry, irrigation and other areas.
The consultant study on the agro-industrial sector, which would be done in
collaboration with the Government Office for the Promotion of Agro-Industry
attached to MPRN, would be carried out under terms of reference and a plan
of execution satisfactory to the Association.
47.       Training Component:  The project provides for 15 staff-months of
consultant time for training. A training consultant would visit the
project each year to prepare and help implement a program of technical and
professional training linked directly to the work program (Annexes V and
VI). In addition FAC, in its bilateral agreement with the Government,
would provide a full-time trainer for MDR. Though not attached to BSD, the
trainer would assist it in planning and organizing its training courses.
Other technical experts would be invited to give seminars on specific areas
related to BSD work. All resident specialists would also be required by
their terms of reference to participate actively in the training programs,
and to prepare Guinean staff for taking over from them before their tour of
duty ended. A training plan is provided in Annex VI. The training
component would also finance 15 medium-term fellowships of about a year
each and about 60 months of short-term fellowships of a few weeks to three
months, which would be agreed with IDA, to complement the in-country and
on-the-job training being provided. The Government would ensure that
Guinean staff benefitting from the project's medium-term fellowship program
continue to work in BSD or MDR for at least two years after they return.
The project construction program provides for an office building with a
training centre attached for BSD.   The detailed preparation and
supervision of the studies and overseas training programs would be carried
out with the assistance of the resident specialists financed under the
project. Thev would be subject to prior approval by the Association based
on supporting documentation that would include a detailed justification,
plan of execution, and supporting services.
Project Organization and Execution
48.       The Government has formally established BSD, by merging ONADER
and the existing studies unit of MDR and has set out its organization,
including its divisional structure and responsibilities. A director for
BSD has already been appointed and is in post. The Government has
identified a suitable area in Conakry for the construction of BSD offices
and housing for the project. The signing of the ministerial arrete



* 1 7 -
confirming the allocation of land to BSD would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The present staff of ONADER will continue its project
management role under the ongoing Rice Development Project (Cr. 952-GUI)
which is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985. MDR is presently
undergoing a reorganization of its administrative and financial services.
Until this reorganization is completed, the Government would give BSD
operational and financial autonomy. The director of BSD would be
responsible for the day to day running of the project and would normally
report to the Secretary General of tne Ministry, who as the most senior
civil servant in the new organizational structure of MDR is responsible for
strategy development, general ministry administration and ensuring
implementation of the policies of the Ministry.
49.       In the recent reorganization of ministries in Guinea, all
services dealing with rural development were consolidated into a single
Ministry of Rural Development, with three state Secretaries, responsible
for Agriculture and Livestock, Fisheries, and Forestry. The studies units
that existed under the different ministries before the consolidation would
be regrouped into one. The organizational structure of BSD would take
account of the new ministerial structure and would include staff from the
various sub-sectors to cover all aspects of rural development. The pro-
posed Livestock Sector Rehabilitation Project (para. 30) would provide for
consultants to support specific livestock sector studies. BSD would be
responsible for preparing and organizing all rural sector-related studies.
50.       BSD would have five main Divisions, an Administrative and
Financial Division and four Technical Divisions (paras. 39-42). The
Administrative and Financial Division would have two units, one Tesponsible
for administration and finance and the otber responsible for logistic
support to new projects, such as the Koba pilot project. A resident
expatriate financial administrator would assist the Division. The four
Technical Divisions would be responsible for strategy, policy planning and
development, project identification and investment review, monitoring and
evaluation, and statistics. The planning specialist (para. 39) would
coordinate the activities of the technical divisions, while the Director of
BSD and those of Agricultural Research and Rural Works (Genie Rural)
Departments in MDR would prepare and agree on the work programs to be
carried out by the resident researcher and irrigation engineer within those
two departments of MDR. BSD would prepare an annual work program and
budget for those departments as well as for the researcher and irrigation
engineer and send these to IDA before the beginning of each financial year.
Implementation and progress reporting for project activities would be the
direct responsibility of the BSD director.
51.       Resident specialists would be provided by a consulting firm.
Detailed terms of reference for the specialists (Annex IV) were confirmed
at negotiations along with the work program for BSD (Annex V). To avoid
delays in selecting a firm, the Government sent out invitation letters in
October 1985 to six consulting firms and would select a firm before the end
of 1985. The signing of a contract with an acceptable consulting firm to
provide the technical assistance would be a condition of Credit effective-
ness. Skill requirements of Guinean staff have been identified and the
numbers and composition of key personnel in each of the divisions were
agreed at negotiations. Key Guinean staff have been named. The
Association's approval of contracts for the resident specialists would be



- 18 -
subject to the Government having made available the required key Guinean
professional and support staff.
Project Costs and Financing
52.       The total cost of the project (Annex VII), net of taxes and
duties (from which it would be exempt) is estimated at US$10.1 million
equivalent. Physical and price contingencies would constitute 25 percent
of total base costs, which have been prepared in July 1985 prices. The
proposed IDA Credit of US$7.5 million would cover the foreign cost of the
project less the costs (about US$0.9 million equivalent) of the two specia-
lists being provided by FAC (a rural engineer and a research agronomist).
The Government would meet all local costs, US$1.7 million equivalent. The
Government contribution includes staff salaries and allowances equivalent
to US$0.5 million. Allowances for local staff equivalent to 20 percent of
their base salaries have been included to cover travel and overtime. 2/
Procurement and Disbursement
53.       The Government would select the consulting firm to supply the
technical assistance personnel in accordance with IDA Guidelines. All
terms of reference, qualifications and contracts would be subject to prior
approval by the Association. Construction of the housing and offices for
BSD (US$1.3 million) expected to be pre-fabricated material, and purchase
of vehicles (US$0.4 million) would be subject to international competitive
bidding, following IDA guidelines. Procurement of spare parts, furniture
and office equipment and supplies would follow limited international
tendering (US$1.0 million). A table detailing procurement arrangements is
in Annex VIII.
54.       The proposed Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of
foreign exchange costs of the consulting services and training programs,
studies and fellowships (US$4.9 million equivalent), vehicles, equipment,
furniture and spare parts (US$1.4 million equivalent), 75 percent of the
total cost of civil works (US$0.9 million equivalent), and 60 percent of
the total cost of fuel and lubricants (US$0.3 million equivalent). The
Government would make explicit provision in its annual budgets for funds
sufficient to support the project's Guinean staff and associated other
project costs. US$500,000 of the proposed Credit would remain unallocated.
The disbursement projections are based on the disbursement profile for West
Africa technical assistance projects, modified to the extent that certain
2/
The project costs have been calculated on the basis of 250 sylis to the US
dollar. Price contingencies have been incorporated on the following basis:
on all foreign costs, 7.5 percent for 1986, and 8 percent for 1987-90; for
local personnel costs, 27 percent for 1986 and 10 percent for 1987-90; for
local goods and services, 20 percent for 1986 and 12 percent for 1987-90.
The local price contingencies were calculated to reflect the impact of the
devaluation of the syli on local prices. Physical contingencies of 10
percent on all non-personnel costs have been included.



- 19 -
disbursements are expected to occur earlier, given of the reimbursement of
the PPF advance, the advanced status of project start-up activities
(selection of consultants), and the generally favorable project performance
and disbursement experience in Guinea.
Accounts, Audit and Reporting
55.       BSD would establish and maintain consolidated project accounts
for all expenditures under the proposed project. Prior to project
effectiveness, the project local currency account would be established in a
local commercial bank and an initial contribution in local currency
equivalent to US$100,000 made into it. It would be replenished at least
quarterly. A foreign currency Special Account of US$100,000 for the
purchase of vehicle spare parts and other items, and for the foreign costs
of fellowships and short-term consultant visits, would also be established,
and replenislL-d by IDA upon presentation of supporting documentation.
These accounts and supporting records would be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to IDA and audited reports would be submitted promptly to the
Association. Preparation by an audit firm, under the Rice Development
Project (Cr. 952-GUI), of an internal management control, basic accounting
and progress reporting system for ONADER, finished in July 1985. The new
accounting system has been set up in ONADER and would be applied in BSD.
An expatriate financial controller would supervise the implementation of
this system and the training of Guinean personnel in its use. In addition
to annual audit reports, BSD would also submit a semi-annual progress
report on the physical and financial performance of the project, and its
institutional impact on MDR. The content and form of these reports, which
would be reviewed by the Association, were agreed at negotiations.
Benefit and Risks
56.       The main benefits of the proposed project would be the training
and development of staff expertise in policy formulation, planning,
investment review, project preparation and evaluation, and the collection
of agricultural statistics. BSD would be an important unit in the
reorganization of the Ministry, serving as the main body that would plan
the steps of the reorganization and advise the Minister on the actual
process of implementation. The strengthening of the studies and planning
unit of the Ministry of Rural Development should help introduce a more
systematic approach to rural development despite the fact that it is only a
first step in a long process of strengthening the whole Ministry.
57.       Expected Results.  The project should lead to the definition of a
coherent strategy for rural sector and policies affecting prices, market-
ing, credit, and input distribution. It would produce an investment
program for the rural sector that would be included in the national invest-
ment program and introduce a manual on monitoring and evaluation of
projects in execution. The first set of estimates of agricultural
productiun and marketing statistics would be produced under the project,
for the 1987/88 crop year and regularly thereafter. Statistical methods
would be refined in the light of experience. The project would also help
the Government identify research and small-scale irrigation needs, and
prepare long term strategies fcr research and irrigation and a master plan
for agro-industrial development. The organizational study should lead to



- 20 -
an improved structure of services in the rural sector, a work program for
each of the provinces and, an estimate of the manpower and financial needs
of a restructured MDR to carry out its work program. In general, these
accomplishments should permit the Government to define its rural sector
investment strategy and elicit donor support for its implementation.
58.       Four main risks are associated with achieving the project's
objectives. One is that policy recommendations arising from the project
would not be acted upon rapidly. This risk is minimized by the fact that
the Government places great importance on the future development of agri-
culture, and hence on the organization and functioning of MDR and on the
formulation of coherent sector policies. The Government has also agreed
that it would regularly consult with IDA concerning the policy recommenda-
tlons made by BSD. A second risk is that of delays or difficulties in
providing and ensuring continuity in technical assistance personnel. This
risk is lessened by the requirement that the Government select a consulting
firm before Credit effectiveness that can provide needed back-up support,
and by the provision that the Government give BSD operational and financial
autonomy until MDR's reorganization is completed A third risk is that with
the merger of the two former ministries dealing with rural development,
Livestock and Fisheries, and Forestry and Agriculture into a single
Ministry of Rural Development, certain subsectors such as Fisheries and
Forestry may not receive as much priority as Agriculture and Livestock.
While this may occur initially, staff from all the subsectors are included
in the BSD and, as necessary, consultants would be used to ensure coverage
for the various activities. The fourth risk surrounds the project's staff
development and training objectives. All technical assistance staff would
be required by their terms of reference to ensure systematic training of
Guinean staff working with them. The project's fellowship program is also
designed to broaden the horizons of the Guinean staff working in the
project.
PART V - RECONMENDATION
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
Washington, D.C.                                    President
November 4, 1985
Attachments



- 21-                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                 , L          eL     of  6
I:                      -SOCIAL, mICArnF 0*194 UNIty           M,   A
euis                                  susuuacamups suxanno avmsi^sj ~
IIIT                      CnT MEONT ERTINATE) f
,.0a  397~~~~ MCIII? ~LOW InCmi  AFRICA              NIBBLE105
19MQ! t   19701-b :CthiAST&L!          OUTNI OF f*hARA       AFRicA    oP SAHA
AMA (TUSAND. 00
TOTAL                               243.9        235.9       243.9
AGRICULTURAL                         44.0        85.7         43.7
SWM  CAPTA CUSS)                          ..          ..        300.0              23.8                      1063 
(KILOCRAS OF OIL EOUIVALENT)         35.0         38.0        54.0               82.3                     M1.5
puPuATjmm- vitaL UTTS1TIC
POPULATEON.HID-MAN (THOUSAINDS)   3I30.0       8430.0       1830.0
URBL  POULATION (I OF TOTAL)          9.9         13.9        28.0               20.1                       32.o
POPULATION nownzrous
POULATION iN YTAR 2000 (HILL)                                .3
STATIONA  POPULATION (HILL)                                 25.0
POPULATION     1T                                             .
POPULLTon oesEIr
PER SQ. KM.                        *,.1        10.3        23.7                33.2                      65.3
vn sq. un.  cl. LAND               87.5        91.2        125.0              112.8                      124.8
PuLATION A    TUCTURE (I)
0-13 IRS                          42.0        42.5         43.6               48.0                      43.6
15-4 iRS                           55.1        54.6        53.2                30.5                      51.5
5 AND AOVE                          2.8         2.8          3.1                1.9                       2.7
POUATION GROWIH  ATE (I)
TOTAL                               3.3          3.5         2.0                2.8                       2.9
UBAl                                7.0         4.9          3.1                6.4                       5.1
CRUE BIRTH  RATE (PER THOS)          46.0        46.0        47.0                47.2                      47.0
CRuoe DATH BATE (PER THOUS)          30.3        26.9        26.7                17.8                      15.0
GROSS REPRODUCrTON RATZ               2.9         2.9          3.2                3.3                       3.2
FAMILY PLAIWING
ACCEPORS.    L  (mOS)               ..
USERS (2 OF HARIED       )                       .           1.0 /              3.3                       84
wow ns am mmc
INEn OF FOOD PRO. PER CAPITA
(i99-71-100)                         97.0       101.0         88.0               83.3                      02.9
flR CAPITA SUMT OF
CALORIES (1 oF RUIMNTS)            70.0        79.0        SD                  87.7                      96.5
PROTEINS ( MS PEM DAT)             34.0        37.0        38.0                51.9                      33.4
or WHICH A1NWL AND PULSE           7.0         6.0         7.0 /c             16.7                      16.5
CHILD (AMUS 1-4) DEATH RATE          57.7        46.3         38.0               23.1                      16.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT 31RTH (TEARS)        34.7        35.4        37.3                47.8                      52.0
INFANT NT. RATE (PER TRHS)          207.5       106.5       158.0               119.3                     108.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE  (EP)
TOTAL                                                       17.0 /d            27.1                      42. 
URBAN                                          68 .0       69.0                *3.5                      67.5
RUItAL                                                      2.0 E              19.3                      353.
ACCESS TO ECRZTA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          13.0        13.0 Id             2685                      26.9
URBAN                                .         70.0        54.0 7i             65.                       57.7
RURAL                                            .0         1.0 71d            20.8                      20.7
POPULATION PER PHTSICIAN          33770.0     33510.0    17110.0 /c           27901.7                   11191.7
POP. PER NURSI   PRSON             4040.0      2220.0      2570.0 7-           3303.4                    2459.8
OP. PER HOSPITAL SED
TOrAL                            1410.0       870.0       860.0 /1           1273.4                     981.1
URBA                              260.0       240.0       400.07;             423-2                     368.8
RUtRAL                           2760.0       960.0       760.0 E            3292.3                    4371.9
A1IISSIOVS PER HOSPITAL BED                      16.0                                                      27.2
-S :
AVZRAGE SIZE o HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBA                                ..          ......
RURAL                      .        ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROH
TOTAL
URI
TURAL                               ..          ..           .O..
mcEnQTACC or oweLLIlles wITN QecT-
URBAN                               ..           .s
RURA                                ..          ...



- 22 -                                           ANNEX I
T A     L C4                                       n o aof  6
GUINUA                 - IOCIAL I0 pICA0ES            C     M    A    1
GUXIIA                              Una: e   (NO" mcr uArm)
v UCDT         LOW INCOU  ARICa              L
I@Ulb      sm&*aFINAT"T&             3OTN11IP 0ANARA      ARlICA S. or BANAR
mmcaua.
ADJUSTgD ENROLIET RATIOS
PEIN4RY:  TOTAL                   30.0        33.0       33.0 I             47.3                      35.1
HALE                  3U.0         45.0        44.0 7             77.4                    100.0
LCMZ                   13.0        21.0        22.0              54.9                      63.2
SECONDARYi TOTAL                   2.0        13.0         4 .0 id          13.5                      17.2
HALE                    3.0        21.0        23.0               17.9                     25.0
FcALE                *              5.0         9.0                9.1                     14.3
VOCATIONAL (I OF SECONDA)           21.7         3.2         2.7 8            13.2                       5.9
PUUIL-TEACIL RTAIO
PRIMARY                            4.0        44.0       34.0 /             44.9                      41.1
SECOIDAR!                         24.0        23.0       24.0               27.4                      2S.5
PASSUOICR CABS/THOUSAND POP          1.4         2.2         ..                3.3                      20 
RADIO *ZCZIR/OUSAmND FoM            10.2        20.3        23.3              55.3                     107.
TV RECsIvYII/TUOUSAND roP            ..          ..          3.                2.4                      20.
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY O0IERAL
IITCRCST) CIRCULATION
PCX THOUSAmND POPULAT10            0.2         1.1         3.7 L             5.0                      1UJ
CINEM  ANUIAL ATTENANCCAPITA         ..          ..          ..                0.5                       0.4
LAMO POCRG
TOTAL LAB   FORCM (THO1US)        1910.0      2140.0      2527.0
IEIA, (PERCENT)                   40.4        40.3       41.6               34.2                      3.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCEfT)             U.0         65.0       *2.0 j             77.5                      54.5
INWSTRY (PCRCENT)                  4.0         6.0        11.0  d            9.7                      12.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             49.6        47.7        43.3              39.3                      36.8
NALE                              59.         57.4        52.2               50J9                     *7.
FEMALE                            39.9        38.1       35.3               28.1                      27.2
ECcoNOIc DEENDENcr RATIO             0.9         3.0         1.1               1.3                       1.3
iUcm DISIIZMTT
PERcgET or PRIVATE INCO
RZCEIVED Bo
HIGEST 5X OF HOUSCIOLDS            ..          ..          ..                ..
IGHEST 20X Or  S                   ..          ..U....D
LOWEST 20X or HOUSEHOISS           ..
LOWEST 4O2 OF HOUSEHOLD            ...
ESTIMATED ABSOLUrE POVERTY 7C
LEMVL (USS PER CAPITWA
URBUN                              ..          ..          ..                                        275.5  50.7
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               95.0                     275.3
ESTDIATED RELATIVE FOVEr? lI
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        70.0              113.1                     545.4
tURAL                              ..          ..          ..               67.6                     201.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
pOVCRTY INCOWE LEVEL (Z)
URAN                               ..          ..          ..               14.4                       ..                         .
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               61.
MOT AVAILABL
HOTr AIPLCAE
NOTE S
/a   The group averegea for Gacb iedXcato  are poPulatiJo-Ubted ariC mCic Mm"n.  Cowerag of co"atiaa
amool the indicatota depanda on availablity Of dta Sn  18 not wUOme.
/b  UDlel1  otberwi.e noted. "Dat. jor 1960, refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dat for 1970" be
1969 and 1971; and data for "INot 3Acat gtiucmt" between 1931 end 1983.
/c   1977; Id 1980; ie 1976; /f 1973; /R 1979.
JUIN. 19S5



-23-                                                  ANNEX I
-  2__________-____._                                  Page  1 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nomn Althoughthe data aredranfrom sourtgeterallyjudged themos authormavend relabl. .t shouldsalobenosed that they ma) nol bCe inttrrtlonlt
compnrbe becase r tshe ck of standardied deltions and eonceptl used by differtm countrtes sm collcting she data The daut r. nontheless useful to
dcnibe orden of magnitude, inadic trends, and ciaractenrue cenamn major differetn between countis
The refetence groups ste Ill the sawe countr group of ihe subject coututry and 12) a country group wilh asewwhli higher average income than the counit)
group ot the subct country lexp tor "Hight Income Oil Eporten- group when -Middl Income North Arfca and Middle Es" is chosen because   sronget
omtoi-culsural alintines) In the reference group data the mavr  a *rc population weighed anibmetc means for eacth indicator and shown onlh then mae. it)
of the countrint ma group has data for thait ducator Sine ihecoverae ofcountries among the indiators depeds onthe availabilit) ordais and is not uniform
caution must bt extrcised in relating average o one indicator to another Thee averages are onlb useful in companng the slue of one indicIaor at a rnie ittn;
ihe country and reerence groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Cruk Birth Rate (per thotsaad_ -Number of live births in the year
Toral-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;   per thousand of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                           Crade Death Rote (per thasdi-Number of dcaths in the year
Agrleural--Estumate of agricultural arca used temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data
permanently for crops. pasturcs, market and kitchen pgrdens or so   Gmts Repndaien Rar-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie falUow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                               will ber in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (IUSS-NP per capita cstimates at currcnt             in 1960, 1970. and 1983
market prices. calculated bv same conversion method as World        Fomil; Plaainq-Accepsors. Anima fsheusaosf-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis), :913 data                               ber ofacceptors ofbarh-control devices under auspices ornational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                      family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy icoal and lignite.         &i.iy Plaaig-User (pereet of  arried woses)-The percen-
petrolcum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermatl elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
trictty) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practwicng any form of contraception VWomen
1982 data,                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-419. although for
some countnes contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                    groups.
Toral Pwpalarla. Mid- Yea (hoausaudsls-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.   FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
k a (perx ofFeed Prodweia PerCapes (1969-71- 100)-Index of per
po     Puon;differ ment d  fefio   of urban a   urban to total     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population. different definitions of urban amas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture Food commoditiema
ability of data among countries. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.         include pnimary commodities (e.g. sugareane instead of sugari
POpltin   Projections                                              which are edible .and contain nutrients te g coffee and tea are
Popultion at year 2000-The projction of population for 2000.       excluded); they compnse cereals. root crops. puiscs, oil oieds.
made for each econom) separatelv. Starting with inforTation on     vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. litestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products Xgregatc production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national averace producer price weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population becamc stationary.                Per Carpit Suppty of Calrie (percent of requirrmnrts)-Comput-
Ssartonarr populatown-Is one in which age. and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies avadlable in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplis compnse domestic produc-
fertilitv rates have simuhianeously remained at replacement level  lion. imports less espons. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - Ii. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. ieeds for use in agriculture. quantities used an
constant and equal so the death rate. the age structure is also     food processing. and losses an distnbution  Requirement) were
constant. and the growth rate is zero The stationary population    estimated by FAO Kised on physiological needs for normal actin itr
size was estimated on the basis of the projected charactenstics of  and health considerine environmental temperature. bodi weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertihty  age and sex distribution of population. and allowming IlI percent fr
rate to replacement Icsel                                          waste at household leel: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
Population lmentNrusr-Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of rottis (grams per dayJ-ProLein content ol
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countnes established bI  USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is measured as    provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 1t grams
the year t: given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protem. These standards.are lower than shoin ot
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                           75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protemi a, an
populattion De-si;y                                                average for the world. proposed bv FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mtd-year population per scuare kilometer 1100 hec-      Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarcs) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                     Per Capita Prorein supplyh Frm Anzimal and PAise-Protein iuppl'
Per sq km. agriultural land-Computed as above for agrcultural      of food derivcd from animals and pulses in grams per da!. 19h1 -65
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data                                1970 and 1977 dala
Population Age Structure (percenri-Children 10-14 years) work-      ChAid (ages 1-4) Dearh Rate (per thoursad)- Number of dJa;h' of
ing age t 5-64 years). and retired s65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the %ame ige
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                  group in a wven year For most developing countries datu dented
Population Growth Rare (percenrt-roral- Annual growth rates of     from life tables. 1Q60. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percrnrsir5ahra-Annual growth rates         Life Expectancy at Birth (yerarsj-Number of years a newhorn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-33 data.        infant would live ir prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



AN4NEX I
- 24 -                                           Page 4 of 6
at the time of or its birth wer to stay the same throughout its iifei  Apllecheler Ratio - pramarr. and secoidario-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in pnmary and secondary levels divided by numbers or
ht Menvpy Rota (pr thesaudI-Number of infanu swho die           tacher In the corresponding lvels.
before reaching one year of ag per thouund live births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 183 datau                                  CONSUMIPTION
Accss to So   Wea (pVee  qf         Jto           u', 05        PanoVe  Can (pe rhosoad jalWaen-Passenger cars com-
rwaL-Number of people (total. urbsn. and rural) with reasnablee  prim motor car seating le than eight persons; excludes ambul-
aean to sfe water supply (Incudes treated surface waten or      ances, hearss and military vehices.
unutated but uncontuminated water such as that from protected   Radio Rwivn fpr themndpopiluulwm-All types of rceivers
bomehol. sprp and sanitary wells) as percentages of their mpec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population.
tive populauons. In an uwbn ama a public fountain or staudpost  excludes un-licensed mrcivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 mete from a house may be considered   registration of radio sets was in efect; data for rect years may
as being within rauonable acceu of that house. In rural arcms   not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
raonable aces would imply that the houswife or memben of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part or the day  TVReceirs (perhaousndpopulatislj-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water nees                            to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Acc.u te E:xcret Dispenel (mereart of popalanoa)-eJ r. rd,   ,  receivers in countries and in year when registrtion of TV sets was
md --l-Numnber of people (total urban. and rual) served by          ec
excrets disposal as percetages of their rcspective populations.  Neiwsp     Crcialis.a f(pr uho_udpopalimio-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper2 defined as a
without tratment, of human cxcret and waste-water by water-     periodical publication devoted pnmanly to recording general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considcred to be daily ir it appears at least four times a week
Pepulatin per Phyukilen-Population divided by number of prac-  Ciemaw  Am1a Arttendace per Capit per Year-Based on the
tsing physicians qualified rrom a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold dunng the yea. including admissions to
Popalatioa per NurJsi  Persoi_--Ppulation divided by number of  drivc-in cinemas and mobile units
practicng male and female grduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxilianes.                        LABOR FORCE
PpuAtion per Ho-pita Red--oarl, urban. ad rural-Population      Total LabAr Force (rheusandij-Economicall% acti%e persons. in-
(total urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding house%ises.
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialized  students. etc.. covenng population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
pemanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov.  Femal (perceatJ-Fimale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  fotc
howevcr. includc hcalth and medical centcrs not permanently staffed  AicUke fpereent)-Labor fore in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data2
of medical facilities                                          Indestry (percent)- Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admisuions per Hospial Bed-Toml number of admissions to or     factunng and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number or beds        force; 1960. 1970 anc 1980 data.
Parrwlpeuioa Rate (percenri-toatl, malk, aadfemak-ParEcipauion
HOUSING                                                        or activily rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
A.Wr Size of Heahl  (per    per p     use h old)-eral. arban.  as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
sadrurai-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 19'0. and 1983 data. These arc based on ILO's
living quarters and their mnain meals. A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
nmy not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend A few estimates are from national sources.
Averae Number of Persons per Room-total, urban. and rral-     F&onomi  Dependency Ratrio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the %orking age population (those aged 15-64)
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts                  INCOME DISTRIBL TION
Perentfage of Dwellings with Electricir*-iotal. mrban, and rural-  Percentage of Total Dtiposable ncowme (both in cash and kindj-
Conmcrntional dwcllings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile croups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROtPS
Adjusted Enrollment RaiO&                                       The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverts
Prvnrv school - total. malte and femalk-Gross total. male and  levels. and should be minerpreted with considerable caution.
female ecrolment of aD ages at the primary klvl as percentages of  Estimated Absolute Poverty Incom Leve (USS per capitai-uarban
respective pnra.y school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income kvel is that income level
consider pnmary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minima! nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practics in the ages and dwuation of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
arc reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relatire Porerry Income Lewel (SS per capital-urban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty ireome level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard pnmary-school  avcrage pcr capita personal income of the country Urban leccl i*
age                                                            denveu From the rural level with adjustment for higher cosi of
Secondari school - total. mae and female-Computed as above:    living in urban areas
secondari education requires arIcast four years of approved pn-  Estimartd Population Below  bsolutre Poverty Ircome Level (per-
mars instruction; provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cent -urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor
ence courses are gencrally excluded.
Voearwonal Eqrolbmeni (perceit of jecondaryl-Vocational institu-          Comparatie Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other programs which operatc    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-  25                                anarcz
TPq  5d 6
RE1C orams^                  
wumc OFuLf
MID1C DISA7
GM  N4TML Mflt    1! 1966                          Mtim  hte af Cnmt (. inrtc prtm)
MS iOn          t    1973-       1977481    197341      191184
OGP at itiu  Pri            1965       ID         4.59      -0.22       2.16        2.(
rcu Datnmab twn tt           201         to      -6.55       7.09       0.06        7.00
Gwa  1atism  S5fl            179         9       -3.44       0.01      -1.70          -
Carsnt Aou  B1.lnc           -fl        -I       21.25     -39.77      -4.92
,   ofbi. NEs                527        27       2D0.41      2.35       15.53       1.01
1 aptU ofGmAa. NFS          -425       -22      -20.03       3.46      11.4           -
C2173W. LAhOR Hf  AND PMWEVIrY tn 1913
Value  hdd                   lAr  Foam                  A% pr Wrker
uss  n          It         dmxm                              SS_
hAlfa-             71n          42.38            2             82.00         351         51.015
lutsrW &ild        363          22.56           271            10A.9        1343         198.38
ServIc5            5R2          316.75          173             7.02        3645         5011.86
TacailAer/        16 5         Ifl0f.V         2466          I1O00.          6-          *ro.oo
centrSlt.                      at c
1as1      1962      1983       1981     19R1      1982    1963      19p6
*ust RcIpts              11.52    15.35     ID.23     10.74    32.68    40.85    '3.1-    21.0
farroiC 0wdir             7.06      9.D9       7.80      9.92     19.97    24.27    17.67    19.4
cra Surplus               6 4.48    6.26       2.43       .83    12.71     16.71      5.51     1.6
,aPital Bwutaan           5.73      4.36       2.93      3.85    16.25      11.58     K.65     7.5
(etl AD 1.6                         0.63        .83      -.22     5.12      2.21      1.8B     -.4
m.% ,    iRG   A  PRI'R
BflAist SylIs
Dc. 19BD          Dec. 1981          Dec. 1982          Dec  39X3
lwy an qtsinqy                     12.50              17.19             16.16              17.55
Bfa* Credtt wo Pablic Seccor      18.50              18.28              15.59             17.78
^k Crltt to Prate Sector            1.21              1.02               0.59              0.63
1980              1981               1962              1983
rbwv ad qumi-sm Y as   of G        77.4              49.69              39.86             40.28
C,rl Price Indc (1981.1n 0)       91.9              100.0              10i.4             116.4
Au1l S 0O_is in:
fank Crlit to RhC sector        114.9              -6.65             -10.00              14.34
flma Culit to Privce Secor       60.3             -16.0D             -62.16              6.71
Occter.22, 1985



- 26 -
REPIMLIC 0 GUINU
T 1858  PATIWITI AND CAPITAL  Mo
BALANCE Of PATETS
197i   1930    1961    19B2    i        3u
- (UMMILL{M                        O (MT.
Eeprtn of Goode                          366     *69      493     64*     503    527
Imports of Good.                        -335    -395    -        346  -310    -C80  -423
Tride Balance                             31     101      46      o4      123      3o
e0rvtees and Private Transfere (nat)    -97      -99    -123    -124    -240   -140
Interest U & L/T Debt                 -23     -23    -22       -25     -21    -21
Investment Inca_.                     -11     -40     -56      -54     -70    -09
Other Services (net)                  -49     -24     -41      -36     -40   -40
Workers   micttancmnee                  7      -'       '9       9       49    4'0
Official Tranefere (net)                   9      17       16      26      13      19
Balance on Current Account               -5       19    -46       -34       1    -22
Direct Foreign Investuent                 17      22       30      28      31      36
Net 11LT borrowing                        37      14       53      20      62    -25
Dieburemante. Public Borrawing        III     119      142      87      92     79
Amortcsation* Public Borroaitn        -65     -73     -61      -53     46    -S.
Subtotal. Publitc Brrovwng             66      66      at       34      46     -5
Private Sector (not)                  -29     -32     -23      -14      16   -20
Other Capttal (nBta,                      -1        I      11      31      -3    -12
Other Items n.i.e -                      -82     -90     -99      -56    -153   -43
Change In Recervem (- - increase) 'I      29      34       12      11      42      63
Crose Reserves I end yeer)                65     101       92     133     129    . 
Net Ranervee (end year) a/              _204    -240     -76    -47    -142   -205
Fuels and Related Matertial
Tmports                                56     BU       97      O6       83     87
of which: Petroleum                    56      34      97      86       83     67
Exports                                    a       0       C        0       0      0
RATES OF EXCRANCE AN
1975    1q76    1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1963   1q84
Sylie13sS   20.33   22.38   21.14  19.72  19.11  18.97  20.'0 22.36  23.37  54.29
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1980-k4)         EXTESMAL DERT* Decmr 31. 1984
(in conaant 1982 pricee)
us&5 -      I                                         u-ss -
Bauxite             334.4       70.1          Pubilc Debt
Alumina             127.0       26.6          Including lindisbursed      1570.4
Diasonds              6.6        1.4          Outtaunding & Diabursed    1167.3
Agricultural
Coemodities         9.2        1.9
Total               477.2      100.0          DEBT S}YIC  MRATIOS FOR 1984
IBRDtlDA LENDING (March 31. 1985)             Scheduled Service Payments   44.3
USS dn                Public                       34.0
IRRD       IDA            Private Debt ton
GCuranteed               11.3
Outstanding a
Disbursed          41.5      108.3
Undisbursed         0.0      86.4
Outstanding
including
undisbursed        41.5      194.7          Actual Service Paymnts
Public Debt                 19.9
Pri-ate Debt Von Guarent'd n-a.
1/  Nerchendise esportellaports only.
2/  Including capital transfers to. and investment on behalf of. etate
enterprlses.
3I  CDP implicit deflator.
*2  Includes errors and ouneatons. and SDR allocations in 1980 and 1981.
5/  Discrepancias due to different exchange ratee.
6/  Debit balance of $213 mdllion under bilateral paymnt arrao ante
converted 1981-82 to PL? loan.
7/ Perds gometrte average.
i/ Debt service as a percentaw of mrchandsie export.
October 22. 1985



- 27 -
Pt0 1 of 2
TME RUICM: OF Q1CUENF
Ls. 1       S. V ,cES P =P
,A1  IF W[D BANK CFRT1NS IN GJar
A. Statmit of Bank LIa  and MA Credits (as of Septaer 3_0, 1985) *
Amount (IIms
Credt
Number       Yew    Borrower      -                                 Bank.     MI  1/    kidisbhtsed 1/
Tuo lo am d tree Cre1its have bes fully di*ursd                    73.50     28.99
870G-        1979   adzea        First Water Suly and Saritatiim             12.50        0.74
952-4l       1980 &uine          Rice Deuelopmet                             10.40        1.53
953-3I       1980   Qdtm         Secd aswy                                   13.0)       0.26
10634GI      1981   (Uts         Livetodc D wdelopit                          2.11       0. 15
1085-I       1981   oilm         Powe                                        28.50       0.66
1234-iI     1982     ma         Irdustrlal     ita                          19.00       12.03
ad Promotio
1341-D1      1983   Guzina       Secogil Ediatim                             11.00       8.55
1382-Gl      1983   Ouima        Goakzy Port                                 13.00       4.25
1438-al      1984    ri2ea       Petrolan IplDratiLm Promtk-                  8.00       5.81
1457-Gl      1984   Gurma        Third HIEa                                  28.00      26.07
1466-1       1984   Cuirea       Coiky Urban De lo!md                        10.70       9.55
1559-01t,   1985    tdna         T.A- for EmLouic  lnagmit                    9.50       9.29
1595-Gil    1985   Guiz          Sead Paw  & Tech. Assistazce                 8.00       8.00
Total                                         73.50    202.70       86.89
of iich has beetrepald                      34.04      0.00
Total nw  held by Baik adMDA 3/               39.46    202.70
Total umIsbursed                               0.0      86.89       86.89
Lf Beginni8g ith Credit 1063-MI. Credits hav beim  dxmated in Special Drd,  Rights. 2h dollar
awits in these colmxs represt the dollar equivalet at the tine of credit neciatia  for the
MDA ants aid the dollar eqivalmts as of September 30. 198w , for the udisbursed  mmts.
(1 SDR - US$1.05940).
2/ Not yet effective.
3/ Priow t:o e   xa2g adjust=.
*  The stats of the prOjects listed in Part A is descr  in a separate report om all Bzan&A
ftIIwxal projects In c1  tim, ukich is udated ice yearly and cxaiated to the 13sxti
Directos m April 30 ard October 31.



- 28 -
Pap 2 of 2
B. S          of iFt ivinmsts (as of S       r  30. 1985)
Fi       Yes    M1&ypm of slu.ias    la                                          9             Total
1983         Soclhft IU,cts. Azkdor Q,, SA.  Diumd Hflnng             13.6       1.2          14.8
Total. CGm  C      otu                                   13.6        1.2         14.8
lAs   eL2ac1jaw,  Te.drAtbx,
Rqiay ts and Sales                                       0.1                     0.1
Toal Cacmdmits new bald by IEC                           13.5        1.2         14.7
Undisbursed RIale                                         0.0       0.0           0.0



- 29 -                 ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I : Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare the project : Six months
Project prepared by : Government and IDA Staff
Project Appraisal : October 1984
Post-Appraisal Mission : June 1985
Negotiations : July 1985
Planned date of Effectiveness : January 15, 1986
Section II : Special IDA Implementation Action
A PPF advance totalling US$800,000 to finance consultants for
doing an organizational study of NDR and proposing a work program for its
provincial directorates. The study started in October 1985.
Section III : Special Conditions
Prior to effectiveness, the Government would (i) sign a contract
with an acceptable firm to provide the technical assistance for BSD (para
51); (ii) establish the local currency revolving fund account and make an
initial contribution equivalent to US$100,000 (para. 55); (iii) sign a
ministerial arrete confirming the allocation of land for construction of
BSD offices and housing for the project (para. 48).
The Government would also:
(a) regularly consult with IDA on the outputs that BSD would
put out (para. 37);
(b) permit BSD to provide technical and logistic support to new
rural development projects according to established and
standard criteria (para. 44);
(c) agree that personnel trained abroad under the project,
would be employed in BSD or NDR for at least two years
(para. 47);



- 30 -                  ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) give BSD operational and financial autonomy until the
reorganization of MDR is completed (para. 48); and
(e) ask BSD to prepare an annual work program and budget as
well as semi-annual reports to be sent to the Association
(para. 55).



- 31 --
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 10
GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Resident Technical Assistance Staff
L.        The Government of Guinea has requested the International
Development Association (IDA) to finance a First Agricultural Services
Project, aimed at supporting efforts by the Ministry of Rural Development
(NDR) to improve its planning methods, policy and strategy formulation,
and investment review. Seven full-time technical advisors will be
provided to MDR's Bureau of Strategy and Development (BSD). Two of these
positions, Rural engineer, and Researcher will be filled by France's Fonds
d'Aide et de la Cooperation (FAC) under a bilateral agreement between the
Republic of Guinea and the Republic of France. All experts will work with
designated Guinean personnel to carry out a work program agreed with IDA.
The Government of Guinea has requested technical proposals from qualified
consulting firms interested in providing services for an Economist/Planner
(mission head), an Agro-Statistician, a Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist, a Project Analyst, and a Financial Controller. Selection of
these will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers, and evaluated according
to the criteria indicated below in para 36.
OBJECTIVES
2.        The main objective of this project would be to improve BSD's
capacity to plan and analyze the rural sector through technical assistance
and staff training. The project would focus on the development of rural
sector strategy and policies, planning and review of investments, project
identification and preparation, collection and analyses of agricultural
data, monitoring and evaluation of on-going rural sector activities, and
provision of logistic and technical support for new rural development
projects. It would also review and propose strategies for agricultural
research and irrigation development. The project provides for 25 staff-
years of resident advisors (of which 6 staff-years would be provided by
FAC), 105 staff-months of short-term consultant services, 15 staff-years
of medium term and 60 staff-months of short-term overseas training.  In
addition to financing the construction of an office for BSD (including a
training center) and construction of seven houses for the resident
advisors, the project would finance the acquisition of the necessary
vehicles, equipment and furniture, and the operating costs for BSD.
3.        In general, the objective of the work program and the consultant
services is to ensure the acquisition of economic and policy analysis
skills by the Guinean personnel who will work with the resident
specialists and the short-term consultants in preparing the outputs
described below and in Annex V. All seven resident specialists will be
responsible for training their Guinean counterparts, in part through
on-the-job training and in part through participation in suitable courses
organized in Guinea and abroad.



- 32-                 ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 10
WORK PROGRAM AND STAFFING
A. Planning Specialist
4.        The incumbent will be the principal adviser of the Director of BSD,
and the Minister of Agricultural Development for a period of four years,
on all aspects of rural sector policy and strategy and will assist BSD to
establish the capacity for planning and policy analysis.
5.        The advisor's principal task and main output will be to assist
appropriate counterparts to prepare and update periodically a rural
development strategy for the medium to long term, setting out the policy
options facing the sector. The expert will also assist in the development
of policies affecting inter alia; prices, marketing, food and export crop
production, credit, agricultural research, input distribution etc. The
expert and the counterparts will prepare before June 30, 1986 a timetable
on the development of these policies. They will also establish, in
collaboration with the monitoring and evaluation division, effective
procedures for monitoring the implementation of these policies.
6.        The planning expert will be responsible for coordinating the
work programs of all the technical divisions and will :
(i) supervise the preparation and follow up of the sectoral
investment program in consultation with NPRN;
(ii) ensure consistency between investment proposals and the
strategy and options adopted for the sector;
(iii) identify and analyze constraints to rural development and
propose measures to fully utilize the potential of
smallholders and provide them adequate services,
(iv) ensure an adequate repartition of resources to the rural
sectors of the various provinces taking into account their
potential and investment proposals; and
(v) analyze, within the context of the rural development
strategy, policies affecting prices, marketing, and rural
credit, evaluate their macro-economic effects and make
recommendations on them.
7.        Following the termination of the study on a Master Plan and
Restructuring of Agricultural Services being financed under PPF, the
planner will coordinate the preparation of a work program and timetable
for implementing the recommendations of the study.
8.        The expert will prepare a work-program and training plan for
staff assigned to the Planning Division, supervise preparation of
work-programs by the other divisions and ensure their implementation. The
expert and counterparts will assure the liaison between the BSD and the
other Ministries, especially the Ministry of Plan and Natural Resources
(MPRN).



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 10
9.        As a secondary responsibility, the expert will advise the
Director of BSD on the needs for additional studies and specialist support
either in the field of training or other areas.
10.       Qualifications:  This Principal Technical Advisor shall have
high level economic and technical training (economist or Agricultural
economist) with at least 7 years experience in agricultural planning and
rural sector investment programming preferably in Sub-saharan Africa. The
expert should be familiar with the techniques of project and policy
analysis, macro-economics and development strategy, and be fluent in
French.
B. Project Analyst
11.       Reporting to the Director of BSD for a period of four years, the
project analyst will be responsible for running the project's division of
BSD and will assist BSD to establish an effective system for project
preparation and evaluation, and for investment review.
12.       The principal task of the expert will be to assist and train
appropriate counterparts within the BSD to identify projects and programs
for the national investment plans, review and analyze rural sector invest-
ment proposals from within and outside of the country, and to prepare new
rural sector projects. All analyses of projects to be included in the
national investment plans would be done by this division. As a first step
the expert will assist the counterparts to review and prepare by December
31, 1986, project briefs for all new investment ideas emerging from the
PPF-financed study as well as for all rural sector projects included in
the 1986/88 rolling Investment Plan. The Project's division will also be
responsible, in collaboration with the monitoring and Evaluation division,
for preparing project completion reports for the Ministry.
13.       All work will be done in collaboration with the technical
departments of the Ministry and with the provincial and prefectoral
directorates.
14.       As one of the first tasks, the expert will prepare a detailed
work-program and training plan for staff in his division, with proposals
for their implementation. The analyst will also prepare a document
outlining project evaluation criteria for investments in the sector and
see to its imrlementation. The document will contain procedures for
identification, preparation, appraisal and choice of investment projects
and will include guidelines on economic and financial analysis of
projects.
Qualifications : The project Analyst shall be an Agricultural Economist
with sound economic and technical background and shall have had some
training in Agronomy and solid experience in project identification,
preparation and analysis (at least 5 years), preferably in Sub-saharan
Africa and be fluent in French.



- 34 -lNXI
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 10
C. Agro-Statistician
15.       Reporting to the Director of BSD, for a period of three and a
half years beginning in the second half of the first project year, the
expert will be the head of the Statistics Unit to be created within BSD.
He will coordinate his activities with the economist/planner and other
experts and cadres working within the Ministry.
16.       The principal activity of the expert would be to train his
counterparts on, and assist them in setting up a system of data collection
and analyses for the rural sector. Within this framework the expert will:
(a) define a work-program on Statistical activities and methods
for MDR, that would permit the collection of useful
production, marketing and price statistics and other data
that would permit a better understanding of the rural
sector using existing structures.
(b) define systems for estimating area, production and yield
figures and train provincial and regional services in their
application.
(c) organize sample surveys within the limit of existing
resources and manpower, for purposes of data collection,
recruit surveyors and train them to collect the data. The
methods and sample design should take into account the
experience with such surveys in other African countries,
noting that well dispersed samples based on farmer
interviews may be more appropriate than more objective
measurement surveys on highly clustered samples. Marketing
and Price data should be based on a sample of rural and
urban markets.
gd) in coordination with the Monitoring and Evaluation
Division, help train the M&E units of rural development
projects on proper techniques of sampling, yield and output
measurements.
17.       As an output, the Statistician and his counterparts will produce
an estimate of production and area statistics for the rural sector by
December 31, 1988, the end of the third project year.
18.       Qualifications and Experience: The expert shall have very good
training in statistics and will at least have a Masters degree or
equivalent in statistics. The incumbent should also have some training in
agriculture and or rural development, with at least four years
professional experience in agricultural statistics preferably in
Sub-saharan Africa. Areas of experience should include :
-    sampling methods, agricultural surveys and statistical
analyses.
-    sociology of smallholder farming.



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 10
-    project monitoring and evaluation.
-    the use of micro-computers.
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
19.       Reporting to the Director of BSD, for a period of three and a
half years, the expert will assist the BSD to establish an effective
monitoring and evaluation system and follow up on project execution.
20.       The expert will have as principal tasks, the training of Guinean
staff and assist them to follow-up on project implementation, evaluation
of the impact of projects at the regional and national levels, reviewing
and updating projects included in the national plan and for monitoring the
effects of rural sector policies, especially on prices and marketing.
21.       More specifically, the Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Division.
under the guidance of the expert will:
(a)  assist in the establishment of project M&E units, help
train the staff of such units in the required M&E systems,
assist the units to prepare work programs and supervise
execution of such work-programs.
(b)  in consultation with project directors, assist in the
preparation of the required management systems within
projects that will facilitate the preparation of work
programs, enable physical and financial progress to be
monitored and project reporting to be improved; the
division will produce a manual setting out the required
procedures before December 31, 1987;
(c)  provide the framework for the minimum supplementation to
the management information systems that is required to
provide the data for project evaluation purposes;
(d)  together with the Statistics Division, provide zechnical
support to project M&E Units in survey design and data
J                           collection methodologies.
22.       Qualifications and Experiences:  The Rxpert shall have
post-graduate training in agricultural economics with a good background in
statistical methods or econometrics. with at least five years experience
in the area of project execution and monitoring and evaluation of projects;
especially in its economic and financial aspects preferably in Sub-saharan
Africa. The expert shall have some experience in the use of
micro-computers and be fluent in French.
E.   Research Agronomist
23.       -..-Lie an agricultural research structure exists in Guinea, under
the Ministries of Rural Development and the Education and Scientific
Research, it has been ineffective in the broad sense, and is virtually



- '16 -             ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 10
non-operationr'  except for research under the Rice Development Project.
There is i'icrcfore considerable need for improvements in the structural
and operational aspects of agricultural research. Under the project, BSD
would have some responsibility for assisting in the development of a
realistic national research capability aimed at increasing agricultural
production. In order to effect this, the project would employ a suitably
qualified and experienced research agronomist (to be furnished by FAC) for
three years.
24.       The Research Agronomist to be furnished by FAC, will work
principally with the Research Department of MDR, but will report to the
Director of BSD, who together with the national Director of Agricultural
Research will be responsible for defining his work program. The expert's
main duties will be to assist the Research Department:
(a) to establish the current agricultural production pattern of
the various ecological zones;
(b) to determine, the status of agricultural research, its
structure, its accomplishments, human and material
resources and facilities;
Cc) to identify priority short term needs of applied research,
and, in cooperation with existing institutions prepare
realizable research programs, also assist in the monitoring
of existing research projects;
(d) to assist Government in establishing a research policy and
its needs in a broad sense for applied research,
particularly its training and resource needs;
(e) to establish contacts with relevant international and
regional research institutions, such as IITA, WARDA,
IDESSA, CIRAD, ILCA etc. for cooperation in obtaining
research information and material; and
(f) to identify and prepare a national research project, which
would include restructuring of national research, and the
provision of funds and facilities to ensure in the long
run, the implementation of an affordable research program.
25.       Tenure and Qualifications:  Because this post is a precursor and
aid to the establishment of a long term Research Department in the MDR.
It would be filled by an expatriate for a period of 3 years, during which,
working with the Ministry's staff, structural and operational changes
would be initiated for the establishment of a proper Research Department
with full responsibility for research.
26.       This research agronomist would be a graduate in agriculture with
at least 10 years experience in tropical agriculture, of which 5 years
would have been spent in carrying out research in a senior capacity. The
expert must be capable of initiating research programs, confident to
determine and advise Government on research needs, and also be able to
analyze and advise on the details of crop research programs, and prepare



ANNEX IV
- 37                      Page 7 of 10
suitable reports on these activities. The incumbent should be fluent in
French but for dialogue with international research workers, a good
knowledge of English language would be advantageous.
F.   Rural Engineer
27.       The infrastructural needs of Guinea for agricultural development
are substantial, and, while the existing structure of the MDR includes a
Department of Rural Works, it is non-operational for want of means. At
present, the emphasis is on assuring the exploitation of rice cultivation
under the various ecological conditions which exist in Guines, and for
which varying degrees of engineering and construction are required. For
these aspects a Rural Engineer will be furnished by FAC to assist the
Rural Works Department of MDR:
(a) to make an inventory of the various exploitable resources
for cultivation of rice (and other crops) utilizing known
natural or other sources of water - e.g. the riverian and
coastal plains, inland valleys, dams, etc.
(b) to determine the pedological, hydrological, metereological
and other data needed to establish potential use of these
resources;
(c) to assess on-going projects which include irrigation, or
vater control measures, and make recommendations where
necessary for improvements;
(d)  to advise the Government on the restructuring of the Rural
Works Department, for its long term operations, based on
its development strategy;
(e) to prepare short term implementable projects, and evaluate
medium and long term projects; and
(f) to determine resource needs, including training of local
staff.
28.       Tenure and Qualifications of Post:  It is intended that this
post should be filled by a qualified expatriate for a period of 3 years,
during which time, he would have initiated changes leading to the opera-
tion of a restructured department, which would take over the full range of
responsibilities of a Rural Works Department in the MDR.  The candidate
selected must be a professional Rural Engineer with at least 5 years
experience in irrigation, rural structures, land-use and soil conservation
in African conditions. The expert must be capable of analysis of
operations, and of preparing projects and be confident in his or her
professional judgment to offer advice to the Government, and discuss
technical matters with project and other engineers. The incumbent must
also be prepared to train and guide local staff for eventual
responsibility in this field. The expert would be responsible to the
Director of BSD who together with the Director of Rural Works of MDR will
determine his or her work program.



ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 10
G.        Financial Controller
29.       Reporting to the Director of BSD for a period of five years, the
financial controller will be responsible for assisting BSD to maintain
accounts in accordance with acceptable accounting practices and to ensure
appropriate internal Management control using the system prepared under
the Rice Development project as guide. The principal tasks of the
controller will be the training of appropriate counterparts in all aspects
of project accounting and controls. Within this framework the expert will
be responsible for the following:
(a) defining the duties of the accounting staff as well as
planning and reviewing their work, and will supervise and
control the daily accounting procedures of the Finance
Department;
(b) in conjunction with project management, preparation of
bidding documents and orders for project goods and
services. subject to competitive bidding and tenders, and
will review and countersign all purchase orders for
purchase of foreign and local goods;
(_)  in conjunction with the rhief accountant he will assist in
the preparation and will control the monthly, quarterly and
annual financial statements.
30.       On a monthly basis the incumbent will review all monthly returns
prepared by each division on its activities prior to inclusion in a
monthly management accounting report and will establish a monthly program
for the following month. On a Quarterly basis; (i) prepare quarterly cash
flow statements for the following quarter, in conjunction with project
management and the chief accountant, (ii) prepare quarterly budget
comparisons for all costs and analyze the variances, (iii) prepare
quarterly departmental management accounts for all costs, and (iv) review
stock levels and liaise with the various divisions to assess adequacy of
stocks with a view to planning reorder quantities and elimii.ating the
occurence of stock outs. Annually; will supervise and control the
preparation of anrLual accounts and finarcial statements to be included in
the annual report which will be subject to annual audit; and will review
and control the preparation of the project budget.
31.       If and when BSD contracts with a new project (such as the Koba
pilot project) to furnish logistic support to such project, the incumbent
will assist in preparing orders for and arranging for the transport of
materials and goods to the project and will ensure that separate accounts
are kept for each such project. The incumbent will thus participate in
negotiations pertaining to all such demands for logistic support.
32.       Dualifications.  The position requires a candidate with
professional accounting qualifications. Experience and/or training in
auditing womld be advantageous. The candidate should have at least five
years experience in financial management and accounting working on a
development project preferably in sub-saharan Africa and should have some
experience in the use of micro-computers and should be fluent in French.



39 --                 ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 10
REPORTING REQUIREMEiNTS
33.       The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports
within the periods indicated: (a) an inception report within four months
of the starting date, should contain the general plan of action for a
training program, and any proposed revisions to the first year work
program or deadlines that have been agreed between the Government and the
Association; (b) progress reports at three month intervals, shall be
submitted to the Director of BSD, summarizing the work performed during
the period, the staff and financial inputs, a summary of interim findings
and progress toward preparing the reports in the agreed annual work
program, and an update of the work program for the next quarter; (c) a
draft completion report, four months before the end of each expert's tour
of duty, summarizing work performed and major lessons learned.
PERSONNEL, FACILITIES AND DATE TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
34.       The Government will designate and make available on a full-time
basis: (a) suitably qualified persons to act as counterparts to the
full-time resident personnel, organized in divisions within BSD
responsible for carrying out the work program described above, and (b)
suitable clerical and administrative staff to support the divisions. The
Government shall provide the consultants with all available data for
carrying out the work program, including, but not limited to, statistics
on the Guinea economy, finances and investment performance of the rural
sector, details of the personnel assigned to BSD, and all other relevant
information. The Government shall take all necessary steps to permit the
movement of the constultants' staff safely and without hindrance both
into, out of, and as necessary internally within the country, as re;uired
for the performance of their services.
THE FIRM'S OFFER AND THE SELECTION CRITERIA
35.       In Its offer, each firm should submit:  (a) a statement of its
experience in similar projects in sub-Saharan Africa, comments on the
terms of reference and work program (together with suggested
modifications), and a description of its approach to the task; (b) the
names and curricula vitae of the five resident specialists it is
proposing, indicating their experience and qualifications (with particular
emphasis on satisfactory counterpart relationships and success in
training), confirming their availability to take up post in Conakry at the
latest in early March 1986 1/, and (c) a description of the backup support
and facilities to be provided by the firm's head office and the method of
1/   The Government attaches particular importance to the selected firm's
undertaking that, but for exceptional cause, the staff proposed in
the offer will be available to take up their posts immediately and
will, under normal circumstances, remain for at least the first 18
months of the project.



-40 -                    ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 10
recruitment and/or pool of short-term consultants, together with a
description of the administrative and logistical arrangements it expects
to undertake to establish the team in Conakry.
36.       The relative weights to be attached to the above criteria during
evaluation of the technical offers are approximately: the firm and its
experience (15); approach to the task (15) and in particuilar to training
(10); team qualifications and experience (55. 10 for each position, plus 5
for the team leader); and logistics/backup (15). The technical evaluation
above would account for 75% of the total points given with price
accounting for 252.
37.       In accordance with tle Guidelines and the Government's
procurement regulations, the Goxernment will invite the firm judged to
have submitted the best technical offer to submit a detailed proposal and
draft contract as a basis for negotiations. Prior to negotiations, the
Government may request that the five resident experts proposed by the
chosen firm to visit Conakry for in-country interviews with senior
Government officials and personnel, and to familiarize themselves with
conditions before taking up their posts. The reasonable expenses of the
five experts to Conakry will be paid by the Government.



GUINEA
Agricultural Services Project
Key Project Activities
Activity                                 Key Objectives                     Key Indicators and Timing
1.  Review of PPF-financed              Propose a master plan for the                   Review of study and
reorganization and                  development of the rural sector;                preparation of a work
master plan study                    prepare an appropriate structure for           program with proposals
MDR, and identify manpower and                 and timetable for
financial needs for Ministry.                  restructuring based on
the recommendations of
the study before
September 30, 1986.               1
2.  Rural sector strategy and           Develop a coherent strategy for the
policy development                  rural sector and define policies
concerning prices, marketing,                  Prepare a timetable for
agricultural production, credit,               elaborating strategy and
input distribution, livestock,                 policies before June 30,
forestry development, etc.                     1986.
3.  Investment programming and           Prepare the sectoral investment                Before December 31, 1986,
analyses                            program to be included in the                   review the investment
national plan; annual review of the            program resulting from
program; analysis of project ideas             the PPF and prepare
resulting from the PPF-financed                project briefs for all
study; and analysis of all projects            projects in the 1986/88
contained in the 1986/88 rolling               program.
investment program.                                                           M H
4.  Monitoring and evaluation            Assist in the establishment of                 Prepare an M&E manual in        
(M&E)                               proJect ME! units; train proJect                consultation with              "
staff in the use of simple M&E                 projects before June 30,        w
1987;



systems; monitor and analyze the               introduce in the
impact of agricultural policies; give          provinces and prefectures
technical assistance to projects in            simple survey systems for
survey design and data collection.             measuring impact of rural
development policies
before June 30, 1988.
5.  Data collection and                  Improve the statistical and data               Prepare a work program on
statistics                          collection system for the rural                 statistical activities
sector; define the statistical needs           and methods for HDR by
of the sector.                                 December 31, 1986.
Provide production and area data by            Estimate area, production
crop.                                          and yield of major crops,
to be done annually, by
June 30, 1988.
6.  Applied research                     Assist in establishing an                      Study production patterns
agricultural research capacity in              by ecological zone and
MDR; Identify priority short-term              determine short-term
research needs.                                research needs by
September 30, 1986.
Prepare a strategy for long-term               Prepare long-term
research development.                          research program before
June 30, 1987.
7.  Irrigation and rural works           Assist in the restructuring of the             Inventory of resources to
Rural Works Department; prepare an             be done before December
inventory of exploitable resources             31, 1986.
available for crop development using
known natural or other sources of              Long-term program and
water; prepare a medium to long-term           data needs to be
program for irrigation development             established before              O 
establishing needs for pedological,            December 31, 1987.              0 x
hydrological, meteorological and                                                t <
other data.
w



8.  Agro-Industrial Study               Prepare a master-plan for the                 Study to be done during
development of agro-industry and              1986.
define a strategy for the sub-sector.
9.  Construction of Office and          Provide office space for BSD and              Government to show proof
Housing                             housing for expatriates.                      of land attribution
before Board
presentation.
axa
0



GUINEA
AGtICULT!,AL 5!IRVFs ?PRO;ECT
TRAIINNGC PLANu
CflhPONENT                       TRAINING ACTIVITY I/                             TARGET STAFF                     LOCATION/SO.CE 2t                      DURATION 3/
Projact Design                   Project Orientation - objectives of bSD.         Senior Supervisoty               At Project - TA staff aDd              4 weiek
e.anegaaen: symt-m  role In MD$ etc.                                              Consult LOts
Ianasing Rural                   Supervisory skills, and idenuJfyJiPa             Senior Supervisory and Rural   At Project and Abroad - tA staff    Variable
Development                      bottleneckS In rural development                 Development Projects'            and Consultants
Directors
institutional                    Tdentify determinants of institutional           Senior Supervisory               At Project and Abroad - SA staff    Variable
Developeent                      performance and how to aet up institutlOnS    Other MDR directors                 end Consultants
Rural Sectot Plarnlng            How to plan ard develip policies for Rural    All senricr staff                   At Pruject and Abroad -TA staff/   Varieble
and Policy CaveLoptent           Sector                                                                            Consultants
Project Econocic and             How to evaluate and analyst projects             Projects' and H&F division       At Project and Abroad - U  staff/   Variable
Filnncial Analysis                                                                stall                            Consultants
Price. Credit and Mauketing    Better understending on developing policles   Planning and M&E division             At Project and Abroad - TA staff/   Variable
Policy analyses                  for prices. credit and mrketing                  *taff                            Consultants
Statistical Analyses sad        Date gathering &ad analyses, survey               Stetltics and H&E divllon    At Project, PtovLncial Centres           Variable
hithnds                          methods                                          provincial directorates          and Abroad
Monitoring and Evaluation        FAR of Projects and effects of policles          NlE division and rural           At Project, inside country.            Veriable
development projects' M61        Abroad
unite
Kicro-computer Use               Techniques in using *icro-computers              All BSD diviseons                At Project - TA staff                 d weeks
Basic Accounting                Accountting opetaions and systms of the           Accounts Personnel               At Project - 1A and senior             3 weeks
project                                                                           stff
Typing and Secretatial           lmproving typing and secretatial skills          Support staff                    At project                             3 months
mkills
Vehicles and Equlpment          Use, maintenance, and repaire of project          Chauffeurs and operators         At Project - Sensor staff              I weeb
vehicles son equipment
ltcbnical                        Research. Irrigation. Porestry, livestock,   All Technicel divisions of           At Project and Abroad -TA staff    variable
Fisberies, etc.                                  BSD, Technical departments       ind consultants.
mrg.
1/   The main source of training would be on the job. This progre  is intended to
relnforee the technical base on whigh on-the-lob rrlaning can be bullt.  Other
training programs may be added as  ecessaery.
2/   TraininS location would be for the mat part in the project trfiniog centre, but                                                                            C
would include short-term sAd 10on-term *tudy trips abroad as well as s.ainars
in the province. Ot prefectures.
I/   Courses would not necesesrily be i1 one-sessio  and where a varlable duration
Is indicated, it implies mone study trips would be involved.
wArPAA A
Jul)t. *



- 45 -
ANNEX  VII
A9RICULTURAL SEVICES MOJECT
suwam PtECT cuSrs
PT     PT       PY      PT     PT        TOTAL  Z UISE  FOREIS  FOUEIS
0       1       2       3       4        COSTS  CrTS  cusrs    crs
195    19k6   19e     299    1999   (000 USO           1000 US)   2
Vehicle                            162.03   61.26   15.29   53.04    291.62    3.6  291.62        100
Equipmnt                          101.92   63.31   31.79   33.90     252.93    3.1  227.96        90
Construction                      1177.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    1177.39   14.5  M8.47        75
Rnidmnt Experts                   748.94  766.41  766.48 551.41    2133.31   33.0  2133.31       100
Coosmltants and Studius    900.00  292.04  246.16  142.32  129.29    1599.90   19.7  15919.0     100
Fellouhips                         133.00  135.00  135.00   45.0     450.00    5.6  450.00       100
Fuel Costs                         62.78   97.24   99.26  99.42      346.70    4.3  201.01        60
Other Operating Costs             195.35  193.56  214.20  214.74     017.85   10.1  423.50        52
Local Personnel                    59.20   79.90  94.0   94.90       327.60    4.6    0.00         0
Total Base Cuts           900.00 23.65 1634.91 1519.14 1219.59    9096.19  100.0  6921.57         es
Physical Contingencius            211.65   79.95   65.69   57.34     413.53          3293         90
Price Cantingencies
Local                       107.12   91.90  130.56  173.67     493.25            0.00        0
Foreign                     196.29  239.20  336.94  361.51    1133.92         1133.92      100
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS10SDI  000.00 3438.70 2034.76 2051.32 1912.11   10136.99         934.32        93
=    =u=  -     u=e=    m==as =   =Y=t=            ==neu    us
MPS   14-Jun-I5



- 46 -                 ANNEX VIII
GUINEA
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method a/
--US$ million--
Inter-
national                        Total
Items to be Procured                ICB      Shopping    Other       N/A     Costs
Vehicles, Equipment, Supplies       0.4        1.0                             1 -   .4
Furniture and Spares               (0.4)      (1.0) b/                       (1.4)
Construction                        1.3          -         -          -       1.3
(0.9)                                    (0.9)
Fuel and Lubricants                   -          -       0.5          -       0.5
(0.3)               (0.3)
Other Operating Costs                 -          -         -        0.6       0.6
Technical Assistance,
Studies and Fellowships               -          -       5.8 cI       -       5.8
(4.9)               (4.9)
Wages and Salaries                    -          -         -        0.5       0.5
Total Costs                       1.7        1.0       6.3        1.1      10.1
(1.3)     (1.0)      (5.2)                (7.5)
a/   Figures in parenthesis represent IDA financing.
b/   Equipment and spare parts of different types and spread over time.
c/ Recruitment of consultants and Technical Assistance staff would be in
accordance with IDA guidelines.



' *- * 8 t~~S  N E eJ L X9A* L 
I                       SA                                                                                                    VS A  L
&"Am" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
z4                                                                                                             IN-
m   !        ^ws5s1yz<  J  ,Jlf  igB/                 U
Om                                                                                                                                    j
0\/z<rN  ,;1 E R R A  l E O N E    >                         j                                              ;
FIRST AGRICULTURAL _sf_.    
SERVICES PROJIECT                                            . _e                                                                )                    n
,__                                       )         _                                     L I B E R I Ai  t * /               
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JLY INfS A



