CREDIT NUMBER 1636 GUI
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 198


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1636 GUI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated A-t-aL 1T'-                  , 1904, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of *:he Project;
(b) the Borrower has received from the Fonds d'Aide A la
Coopdration (FAC), an Agency of the French Republic, a grant
consisting of inter alia the provision of the services of two
resident experts to assist in the implementing of the Project;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated November 27, 1984 and
December 20, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association;


﻿-2-
(c) "MDR" means Ministare du Divelop ement Rural, the
Borrower's Ministry responsiblie  orRurai Development;
(d) "BSD" means Bureau de Stratdgie et de DAveloppement, a
unit established within MDR in accordance with Section 3.02 of
this Agreement;
(e) "MPRN" means Ministbre du Plan et des Ressources
Naturelles, the Borrower's Ministry responsible for planning and
natural resources;
(f) "ONADER" means Opdration Nationale pour le DAveloppe-
ment de la Riziculture, a department established within MDR under
the Rice Development Project (Credit Number 952 GUI);
(g) "BE" means Bureau d'Etudes, a studies unit within MDR;
and
(h) "Syli" or the sign "GS" means the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and C
of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall establish.     The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 1
and November 1 commencing May 1, 1996, and ending November 1,
2035. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 1, 2005 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.-1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
BSD under the overall responsibility of MDR with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the provisions of paragraph (a) above with regard to the
provision of funds, the Borrower shall:
(i)  (A) open, and thereafter maintain, in the Bor-
rower's currency and in the name of BSD an account
(the Revolving Fund) in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
and (B) deposit into the Revolving Fund an initial
deposit equivalent to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000); and
(ii) thereafter deposit into the Revolving Fund on the
first day of every quarter an amount equivalent to
the financial requirements of the Project as
determined by BSD for that quarter.
(d) Amounts deposited in the Revolving Fund pursuant to
paragraph (c) (i) (B) and (ii) of this Section shall be used only
to make payments to meet local expenditures made or to be made in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the
Project.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(i) establish BSD through the merger of ONADER and BE
and thereafter maintain BSD within MDR with appro-
priate resources and responsibilities as set forth
in Schedule 4 as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association;
(ii) employ at all times as head of BSD a Guinean
national whose qualifications and experience shall
be satisfactory to the Association, and require
the head of BSD to report directly to the
Minister, under the supervision of the MDR's
Secretary General;
(iii) each year not later than March 31 review with the
Association the annual report and recommendations
made by BSD and its workload program;
(iv) permit the Association's representatives to visit
all projects benefitting from BSD's assistance and
logistical support;
(v) determine not later than June 30, 1986, the crite-
ria to be applied for granting BSD's support to
new projects;
(vi) not later than September 30, 1986, review with the
Association the work program prepared by BSD to
restructure the Borrower's agricultural services;
and
(vii) furnish to the Association together with contracts
of the consultants and experts to be employed
under the Project, a list of qualified Guinean
nationals selected by the Borrower as counterpart
staff of said consultants and experts. The Bor-
rower shall ensure that counterpart staff remain
in their assignments for the duration of the con-
tract of the consultant or expert concerned.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all reasonable
measures to facilitate the work of the consultants and special-
ists (including consulting and training firms or agencies)
employed for purposes of the Project and make available to them,
as and when needed, all information, office equipment and
supplies required for such work.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the consultants and special-
istrs referred to in Schedule 6 to participate actively in the
training activities and programs organized for local staff under
the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) each year, each BSD
division prepare and submit to the head of BSD an annual program
for activities and goals to be achieved during each fiscal year;
(ii) the head of BSD submit, not later than October 31, each such
program along with the annual budget proposal, including allow-
ances for travel and estimated overtime, to the Association for
its approval; and (iii) furnish to the Association the recom-
mendations and results of all studies carried out under the
Project including any draft thereof, as soon as available.
Section 3.04. (a) Before awarding any fellowship under
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion for its approval the qualifications of the candidates for
such fellowship and the program of studies to be followed by
them.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to
secure the services of fellowship recipients for at least two
years in the positions for which they shall have been trained.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,


﻿-7-
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including the Special Account for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said accounts and the audit thereof
and said records as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdO.awals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,   bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to exa-
mine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in raspect of such separate accounts, a separate


﻿-8-
opinion by said auditors as to whether the pro-
ceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditures have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that BSD shall have been abolished or its organizAtion and
responsibilities shall have been amended in such way as to mate-
rially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Revolving Fund referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (i)
has been opened and the initial deposit has been made in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) (B) of this Agree-
ment;
(b) a contract has been signed with a consulting firm for
the provision of the resident experts referred to in Schedule 6
to this Agreement and the list of Guinean nationals referred to
in Section 3.02 (vii) of this Agreement; and
(c)   land for construction of BSD offices and housing for
the Project shall have been formally allocated to BSD.
Section 6.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 and 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿-9
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Rural Development is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
MinistAre du Dgveloppement Rural
B.P. 576
Conakry
Rfpublique de Guinde
Cable address:
MIDORAL
Conakry
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ByiI                              1
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By         ILI"
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 910,000          75%
(2) Equipment (includ-         1,120,000         100% of foreign
ing vehicles, spare                         expenditures
parts, furniture)
and supplies
(3) Technical assistance,     3,920,000          100% of foreign
consultants' ser-                           expenditures
vices and fellow-
ships
(4) Fuel and lubricants         310,000          60%
(5) Refunding of                810,000          Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 530,000
TOTAL         7,600,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of  this  Schedule, the    term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made ir. respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower's
capacity in formulating a national strategy and policies neces-
sary to promote agricultural and rural development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Development Strategy and Policy
Formulation and Investments Programming and Analysis
(i) Improvement    of  MDR's   structural  organization
through establishment of BSD, and provision of
technical assistance and training of Guinean
staff;
(ii)  Strengthening of the capability of MDR to formu-
late national strategy and policies for rural
development particularly in the fields of food
crop and export crop production, pricing and
marketing and, in respect of agricultural research
and input distribution including agricultural
credit;
(iii) coordination of developmental activities among MDR
technical departments and between MDR and other
ministries;
(iv) identification, preparation, evaluation and moni-
toring of agricultural projects; and collection,
analysis and dissemination of agricultural data;
(v) preparation of a long-term plan for agricultural
research and irrigation activities;
(vi) carrying out of studies to reorganize and develop
national agricultural services including estab-
lishment of a primary irrigation network;
(vii) establishment of systems for the collection of
hydrological and meteorological data; and


﻿- 14 -
(viii) construction of housing for the resident experts
and offices for BSD.
Part B:   Training and Fellowships
(i) organization   of   seminars  and  fellowships   for
short- and medium-term visits abroad for local
staff; and
(ii) on-the-job   training  for  staff working    in  the
technical divisions of BSD.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Guinea
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for furniture, office equipment, spare parts and
supplies not exceeding $50,000 equivalent may, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Fuel and lubricants may be procured by directly negotiated
purchase through the Borrower's specialized importing agencies.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 and works   estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the


﻿- 16 -
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such r.ontracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2 q  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
(a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ the experts and consultants
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement with qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Association. Such experts and consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall not, without prior approval of the
Association, amend or waive any of the terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants and experts or grant any material
extension of time or any approval of sub-contracts or modifica-
tions thereof, or agree to any substitution of personnel of such
consultants and experts or suspend payments under, or terminate,
any contract with such consultants or experts.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Organization of BSD
BSD shall be composed of five Divisions.
1.   The Administrative and Financial Division shall be com-
posed of two units: (i) the Administration and Finance
Unit; and (ii) the Logistical Supply Unit which shall
be responsible for providing the logistical support
necessary to the implementation of new projects.
2.   The Strategy and Development Planning Division shall be
responsible for defining the strategy for the rural
sector development, formulating agricultural policy and
preparing investment plans and plans for research and
small-scale irrigation activities.
3.   The Projects Division shall be responsible for identi-
fying new projects, analyzing and reviewing investment
proposals, and preparing projects and programs to be
included in the investment plan.
4.   The Monitoring and Evaluation Division shall be respon-
sible for formulating standard criteria for monitoring
and evaluation of projects, reviewing and updating
investment plans, monitoring agricultural prices and
evaluation of performance after the completion of
projects, and preparing a practical manual to be used
by project staff.
5.   The Documentation and Statistics Division      shall be
responsible for collecting, analyzing and disseminating
agricultural data.
The five BSD Divisions shall be operational by July 1, 1986.
Implementation Timetable
1.   The Strategy and Development Planning Division shall,
not later than September 30, 1986, submit a timetable
to the Association, satisfactory to the Association,
for the carrying out of studies and formulating


﻿- 18 -
policies related to the agricultural sector and in
particular to pricing, marketing, food and agricultural
input distribution, the primary irrigation network and
livestock and forestry development.
2.   The Projects Division shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1986, review the agricultural sector investment
program and prepare a summary analysis of the current
rural development projects and of those for which
implementation is scheduled to start before 1988, and
set up a timetable for analyzing the costs and benefits
of such projects.
3.   The Monitoring and Evaluation Division shall, not later
than June 30, 1987, prepare and submit for consultation
with the Association a practical manual to be used by
projects staff in monitoring and evaluating project
performance.
4.   The Documentation and Statistics Division shall, not
later than December 31, 1986, establish a work program
satisfactory to the Association for the collection of
necessary statistical data and, not later than June 30,
1988, begin sample surveys to produce a first set of
estimates of agricultural production.
5.   The Strategy and Development Planning Division shall,
not later than June 30, 1987, and in cooperation with
the MDR Research and Gfnie Rural Directorates, estab-
lish a chart describing the current agricultural pro-
duction pattern and the agricultural potential of the
Guinean ecological zones, and including an appraisal of
the status of agricultural research in Guinea. The
Division shall also, not later than December 31, 1987,
prepare a long-term research plan related inter alia to
the collection and analysis of hydrological and meteo-
rological data necessary to assess the country's irri-
gation potential.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (4) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of one
hundred thousand dollars to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdraw-
als to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 20 -
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective
Categories (1) through (4), and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
the Borrower from the Credit Account in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)  when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to Categories (1) through (4) of the
Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the
Association and of any outstanding special com-
mitment entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Catego-
ries (1) through (4) of the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making pay-
ments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 21 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 6
Resident Experts' and Consultants' Services
to be employed under the Project
1.   Resident Experts:
(i) Planning Specialist
(ii) Project Analyst
(iii) Agro-Statistician
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
(v) Research Agronomist
(vi) Rural Engineer
(vii) Financial Controller
2.   Consultants' Services:
(i) Carrying out of an agricultural services study under
Part A (ii) of the Project (55 man-months);
(ii) assessment and preparation of a master plan for the
agro-industrial sub-sector potential and carrying out
of other related studies under Part A (v) of the
Project (20 man-months); and
(iii) services related to the improvement of the Project
staff's skills under Part B of the Project (30 man-
months).


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
19FR 8S
FOR SECRETARY


