Report No. PIC1469
Project Name                          China-Heilongjiang Agricultural (@+)
Project Development
Region                                   East Asia and Pacific
Sector                                   Agriculture
Project ID                               CNPE38988
Borrower                                 People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency                      Heilongjiang Provincial
Government
Contact                                  Heilongjiang Provincial
Government
Administrative Office of World Bank
Loans
Attn: Mr. Yu Fei (Director, Project
Management Office)
202 Zhong Shan Road, Nangang District
Harbin, China
Tel: 86-451-263-2146
Fax: 86-451-263-8547
Date Prepared                            February 10, 1997
Appraisal Date                           November 20, 1996
Projected Board Date                     May 13, 1997
1.      Background. Agriculture in China provides sustenance for
about 1.2 billion people, contributes approximately 20 percent to
the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and is the main source
of income for some 200 million farm families. China's sustained
rural reform program has revitalized the agricultural sector and
provided impressive growth and structural change through the
introduction of the production responsibility system, increased
producer prices and an enlarged role for market forces. Small-scale
crop and livestock producers, as well as agroindustrial
enterprises, are striving to adapt to an increasingly competitive
and sophisticated consumer market, and, at the same time, to
maintain environmentally sustainable production practices. The
livestock subsector has undergone rapid growth during the past 15
years, in response to an increasing demand for livestock products
resulting from rising incomes, particularly in urban areas. The
introduction of policies designed to increase the efficiency and
international market competitiveness of its livestock industry has
led to substantial investment in vertically integrated livestock
production and processing enterprises, particularly in the poultry
and pig sectors, as well as in dairying and, most recently,
specialized beef production. Such enterprises frequently make use
of out-grower contracts for livestock production, thus enabling
small-scale producers to enjoy the financial benefits of technology
improvements and a degree of protection from market risks.
2.      Heilongjiang is a major producer of cereals and soybeans, and



it also has a vast natural grassland resource extending over 6
million ha. The combination of grain surpluses, pasture
availability, and experience nurtured by the livestock husbandry
tradition of the farmers, provides a substantial potential for
livestock development. The province is well endowed with natural
resources of strategic importance to the economy, e.g. Daqing Oil
Fields, and has received large state investments to exploit these
resources. In addition, state farms were developed in remote areas
to develop new land, secure border areas and provide grain and
animal products for distant urban centers and for the large high-
priority SOEs. These large state investments in industry and
agriculture, buoyed by protected markets and subsidized capital,
became prominent features of the provincial economy. Production and
incomes from those enterprises masked the problems associated with
the poor condition of many enterprises that were outside this
privileged system. The dependence on large SOEs, the difficulties
attendant to their reform, and the delayed development of other
segments of agriculture, industry and local government lie at the
heart of the income and employment difficulties that are now of
growing concern to central and provincial authorities. Local
government institutions have not developed the strength or
experience in planning and management to the same degree as other
provinces that have enjoyed greater autonomy in the past. Past
subordination to central agencies on critical investment and
management decisions in the state sector deprived them not only of
the learning experience, but also the resources and administrative
capacity that might serve them well in today's adjustment tasks.
3.      The proposed project was conceived to utilize Heilongjiang's
comparative advantage for livestock production, increasing rural
incomes, and to facilitate restructuring and retooling of
agroprocessing enterprises, allowing them to respond to changing
market conditions. In addition, the government is looking for ways
to assist enterprises to bring down average costs through
technological innovation, managerial improvements, and the
integration of production, supply and marketing activities. This
integration is particularly important among agricultural and rural
enterprises, to reduce the costs and inefficiencies of small-scale
production, scattered suppliers and frequent transactions.
4.      Project Objectives. The primary objectives of the project are
to raise incomes and living standards, stimulate market-oriented
enterprise development in rural Heilongjiang industries, and expand
rural employment by increasing livestock and aquaculture production
and expanding or improving crop and livestock processing. The
project would introduce new production and processing technologies,
and promote better planning and management to respond to market
demands. It would also enhance environmental standards in the
design of crop and livestock processing plants, develop monitoring
systems and promote sound environmental protection practices.
5.      Project Description. The project would: (a) support
development of beef cattle fattening, dairy cattle raising, pig
breeding and fattening, and goose breeding and fattening; (b)
expand fish production by construction of 584 ha of new ponds,
- 2-



rehabilitating 237 ha of existing ponds and restocking a 12,000 ha
natural lake; (c) construction of new and expansion/improvement of
existing facilities for processing milk, beef, pigs and geese,
cereals, oilseeds, beans and fruit; and (d) institutional
development, including strengthening of livestock supporting
services, technical assistance, training and studies. The livestock
activities would be carried out by 51,000 rural smallholders with
two and four cow dairy farms, ten and twenty head pig and beef
fattening units, and 100 and 200 head flocks of geese. Because
livestock activities are mainly carried out by women, they are
being targeted for project-sponsored training in livestock and
aquaculture. Strengthening of livestock supporting services
includes development of a livestock management information system,
a goose breeding study on comparative breed performance, import of
new cattle breeding stock, and pasture improvement research with
the aim of reducing the grain content in animal feed. A significant
feature of the agroprocessing component would be the reform
measures to be carried out by the participating processing
enterprises--creation of autonomous corporate enterprises with
clear lines of governance, a fully transparent set of modern
financial accounts, and clearly defined management prerogatives and
responsibilities. Marketing studies, carried out as part of project
preparation, have identified and evaluated existing and potential
markets and competitors, assessed market demand, and determined
distribution channels and packaging requirements and are being used
by enterprise managers to develop their market strategies. All
enterprises and investments to be supported under the project were
selected on the basis of financial and institutional criteria found
satisfactory by the Bank
6.      Project Financing. The total project cost is estimated at
$239.1 million, with a foreign exchange component of $92.9 million
or 39 percent of the total. Retroactive financing for preparation
activities necessary for a smooth start up of the project, up to $4
million will be required for expenditures made between December 1,
1996 and the date of signing of the Loan Agreement.
7.      Project Implementation. The government of Hellongjiang would
be responsible for overall project implementation. A provincial
Project Leading Group (PLG), headed by the Vice-Governor
responsible for agriculture and including representatives from the
Planning Commission, Finance, Livestock, Fisheries, Grain, Township
and Village Enterprise (TVE) , State Asset Management and Light
Industry Bureaus, the Agriculture Commission, the Customs and Tax
Departments, the Reform Commission, the Agricultural Bank of China
(ABC), and the All China Women's Federation, would formulate
project plans and policies, approve project feasibility studies,
and enlist support of other relevant agencies. A provincial project
management office (PMO) has been established at the Provincial
Planning Commission with overall responsibility for project
implementation under the guidance of the Provincial PLG. A
provincial technical panel, comprising specialists and engineers
from research institutes and technical bureaus, has been
established to make recommendations on technical aspects to PLGs
and PMOS. PLGs and PMOs at prefecture, municipal and county levels
- 3 -



would have a similar structure and responsibilities. Each of the
agroprocessing enterprises would be an autonomous commercial entity
under independent management and would be required to implement a
restructuring plan, including transformation to a limited liability
company with a professional management team response 'ble for all
aspects of company operations. One criteria for enterprise
assistance under the project is satisfactory financial performance
during the past three years.
7.      Project Sustainability. The sustainability of smallholder
activities in livestock and aquaculture would be supported by
reliance on widely available feed resources, from surplus grain,
oilseeds and pasture land and underutilized labor and the
strengthening of livestock supporting services through the
provision of technical assistance and training. The sustainability
of the agroprocessing enterprises has been enhanced by selection of
creditworthy enterprises or sponsors (in the case of new
establishments) and would be reinforced through training in modern
management and marketing techniques.
8.      Lessons from Previous Bank Group Operations. An OED review of
area development projects published in September 1995, identified a
number of project design elements critical to successful project
implementation. The proposed project is consistent with the
recommendations relating to commitment, phased approach, simplicity
of design and integration of components. For example, a common
element of success in area development projects in China has been
the degree of government commitment. Both the central and
provincial governments have supported the proposed project and have
mobilized support down to the county and township levels. There is
a high degree of support and interest on the part of project
beneficiaries and stakeholders, particularly the owners of the
enterprises, many of whom are workers and farmers producing the
agricultural inputs.
9.      In addition, the recommendations of recent ICRs of China
agricultural projects (Shandong Agricultural Development Project
Report No. 15308 and Xingjiang Agricultural Development Project
Report No. 15439) have been incorporated into preparation of the
proposed project. Designs and cost estimates for all agro-
processing facilities include waste water treatment systems.
Technical experts, including an environmental engineer, have
actively participated with the Chinese design institutes on the
selection of appropriate agro-processing equipment. Finally, local
consultants have been engaged to conduct a marketing study for all
of the products produced by the supported facilities. This study
will lead to detailed marketing plans for all of the commodities.
10.     Harbin, the provincial capital, was one of eight cities
participating in the Freshwater Fisheries Project (Cr. 1689-CHA)
implemented between 1986 and 1992. In the PCR, the project was
regarded as highly successful, and the main reasons were attributed
to a simple design of the project, subprojects were relatively
accessible, strong sense of ownership and commitment by the
implementing agencies and local governments, speedy implementation
- 4 -



with "construction and production in the same year", and training
provided early in the implementation period.
11.     Environmental Aspects. The project was assigned to Category B
for the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01. The Environmental
Assessment for this project is available IN hard copy from the
World Bank's Public Information Center in Washington, D.C. An annex
giving highlights of the project's environmental impact is attached
to this document.
12.     Program Objective Categories. The project would support the
Government in its ongoing efforts to carry out policy and
regulatory reforms and to develop a conducive environment for
commercialization of agriculture and rural enterprises.
Commercialization of the enterprises included in the project is
expected to provide a basis for their eventual privatization.
13.     Program Objective Categories. The project would support the
Government in its ongoing efforts to carry out policy and
regulatory reforms and to develop a conducive environment for
commercialization of agriculture and rural enterprises.
Commercialization of the enterprises included in the project is
expected to provide a basis for their eventual privatization.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 25, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Summary of Environmental
1.      An Environmental Assessment Report for the proposed project
has been prepared and is available in hard copy at the World Bank
Public Information Center in Washington, D.C.
2.      As indicated in the Assessment Report, the project's
potential environmental issues relate mainly to: (a) the
aquaculture component and (b) the agroprocessing components. The
wetlands of Heilongjiang are important migratory bird habitats
which have been significantly reduced in area over the last few
decades due to land reclamation activities. All aquaculture
development sites selected for the project are either already being
used for this purpose or involve extension of existing aquaculture
areas into what is at present waste land and, as such, would not
result in incremental adverse impacts.
3.      The project will support investments in the expansion or new
development of 20 crop processing and 10 livestock processing
facilities. All 30 establishments were the subject of environmental
impact assessments, prepared in accordance with relevant Government
of China regulatory requirements and reviewed by Bank staff. These
processing factories are of small to medium size and the main
associated environmental issue is water pollution. The main
pollution sources will be the corn, starch and oil processing
factories and the beef and pig abbatoirs. Particular attention has
been paid during project preparation to waste minimization and
technology transfer for waste treatment under cold climate
conditions. The project would provide for the services of an
independent expert acceptable to the Bank to review final detailed
designs.
4.      Resettlement necessitated by the project is limited to the
agroprocessing component where 5 ha of land would be acquired for 4
new enterprises. The land is currently being farmed by 16 families
comprising 25 persons. No housing or other infrastructure is
involved. These families would receive compensation for crops in
accordance with applicable Chinese law. Three families would be
allocated the same amount of new farm land of equal quality, and 15
families would be offered jobs in the new enterprises. A
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared in full
consultation with the concerned households and reviewed by the
Bank. Under the plan, which is scheduled to be completed by the end
of 1996, all of the families would have higher incomes following
resettlement.
-6-



