Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 16049-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
IEILONGJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
April 18, 1997
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1997)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00 = 8.3
Y1.00 = $0.12
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kmn) = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km ) = 100 ha
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
= 15mu
1 ton (t) = 1,000 kg
= 2,205 pounds
I kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC    -  Agricultural Bank of China
Al      -  Artificial insemination
AHB    -  Animal Husbandry Bureau
ASSP   -  Agricultural Support Service Project
BAP    -  Bureau of Aquatic Products
DM      -  Dry matter
EPB    -  Environmental Protection Bureau
GDP    -  Gross Domestic Product
GOC    -  Government of China
GP      -  Grandparent
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
OED    -  Operations Evaluation Department
PLG    -  Project Leading Group
PMO    -  Project Management Office
SOE    -  State-owned enterprise
TVE    -  Township and Village Enterprise
UHT    -  Ultra High Temperature (Milk)
Vice President    Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director         Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief    Joseph Goldberg, EA2RS
Staff Member    John Stemp, Senior Agriculturist, EA2RS



CHINA
HEILONGJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:              Heilongjiang Province
Poverty:                 Not applicable
Amount:                   $120 million
Terms:                    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:          From Heilongjiang Provincial Government to fartners: up to
6 years with 2 years of grace at the Agricultural Bank of
China's (ABC) standard rate for similar investments, with
the foreign exchange risk borne by Heilongjiang Provincial
Government;
From Heilongjiang Provincial Government to enterprises:
up to 9 years with 3 years of grace either in dollars, at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans, plus a spread of 1.2 percent per year and
applicable commitment charges, or in Renminbi, at ABC's
standard variable rate for similar investments, with the
foreign exchange risk on Renminbi subloans borne by
Heilongjiang Provincial Government.
Financing Plan:           See para. 3.26 and Table 3.3
Economic Rate of Return:  33 percent
Map:                      IBRD 28204
Project ID Number:        CN-PE-38988






CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND ...........................................1
A. Introduction ..........................................1l
B. Agricultural Sector ..........................................l1
C. The Rural Economy  in Heilongjiang ...........................................3
D. Current Challenges in Agriculture and Industry ...........................................                             4
E. The Current Status of Enterprise Reform  ...........................................5
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement ...........................................6
G. Past Bank  Support and Lessons Learned ...........................................8
2. THE PROJECT AREA ...........................................                                                                     10
A. Location ..........................................                                                                  10
B. Climate, Topography and Soils ..........................................                                             10
C. Population, Farm   Size and Land Use ..........................................                                      11
D. Present Development ..........................................                                                        11
E. Women in the Project Area ..........................................                                                 14
3. THE PROJECT ...........................................                                                                          16
A. Project Objectives ..........................................                                                         16
B. Project Description ..........................................                                                       16
C. Detailed Features ..........................................                                                         18
D. Status of Preparation ..........................................                                                     23
E. Implementation Schedule ..........................................                                                   24
F. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan ..........................................                                         24
G. Procurement ..........................................                                                               25
H. Disbursements ..........................................                                                             28
I. Accounts and Audits ........................................... 29
J. Environmental Aspects ........................................... 29
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   .                                                                  ............................ 32
A. Project Organization ........................................... 32
B. Financial Management ...........................                                                                     33
C. Management of Production Activities ...........................                                                       35
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to China in November 1996.
Mission members were Mr. J. Stemp (mission leader), Ms. K. Hill, C. Cronberg,
A. Kaelin, G. Smith and W. Zhou (consultants). Peer reviewers comprised Messrs.
M. Debatisse (EMTAW), C. de Haan (AGRTN); and J. Brown (Consultant).



- ii -
D. Project Launch  Workshop .............................................................                               35
E. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ............................................................. 35
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ............................................................ 37
A. Benefits .............................................................                                               37
B. Marketing ............................................................                                               38
C. Financial and Economic Analyses ............................................................                           40
D. Risks .............................................................41
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ......................................................... 43
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Key Statistics of the Project Area .45
Annex 2: Summary of Agroprocessing .46
Annex 3: Project Cost Summary by Expenditure .57
Annex 4: Financial Budget .73
Annex 5: Summary of Major Agroprocessing Output .83
Annex 6: Financial and Economic Analysis .84
Annex 7A: Terms of Reference for Livestock Industry Consultants and Research ......... 95
Annex  7B:  Terms of Reference for a Livestock Processing  Study ................................. 101
Annex  8:    Resettlement Guidelines .............................................................                                104
Annex  9:    Supervision Plan .............................................................                                       109
Annex  10:  Selected Documents Available in the Project File ....................................... 110
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 3.1:   Key Performance Indicators ............................................................                                17
Table 3.2:   Cost Summary ............................................................                                             25
Table 3.3:   Financing Plan ............................................................                                           25
Table 3.4:   Procurement Profile ............................................................                                      26
Table 3.5:   Allocation of Proceeds ............................................................                                   28
Table 5.1: Per Capita Consumption of Animal Products and Government Targets ........ 38
CHART
Chart 1: Implementation  Schedule ............................................................1 112
MAP
IBRD 28204: Project Activities by County



- 1 -
1. BACKGROUND
A. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of China (GOC) has requested World Bank assistance in
financing an agricultural development project in Heilongjiang Province featuring the
introduction of new production and processing technologies and promoting the adoption
of a market oriented approach to agro-industry. The primary objectives of the project are
to raise incomes and living standards, stimulate market-oriented enterprise development,
and expand rural employment by increasing livestock and aquaculture production. The
project would support enhanced environmental standards in the design of crop and
livestock processing plants, develop monitoring systems and promote sound
environmental protection practices in the Songnen Plain, the main agricultural production
area in the province. The project was identified in October 1994, pre-appraised in May/
June 1996 and appraised in November/December 1996.
B. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
1.2   General. Agriculture in China provides sustenance for about 1.2 billion people,
contributes approximately 20 percent to the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and
is the main source of income for some 200 million farm families. An important trend
affecting the sector has been the shift from a command economy to a more market-driven
economy. This has occurred gradually, starting from the introduction of the household
responsibility system in 1978 and most recently, the introduction of the "socialist market
economy" concept in 1993. Enterprise reforms stressing increased management autonomy
and liberalized markets have led to a steady erosion of the old command system and have
impacted strongly on all links of the distribution chain-primary production, processing,
and marketing.  Small-scale crop and livestock producers, as well as agroindustrial
enterprises, are striving to adapt to an increasingly competitive and sophisticated consumer
market, and, at the same time, to maintain environmentally sustainable production practices.
1.3   The Livestock Sector. The country's livestock subsector has undergone rapid
growth during the past 15 years, in response to an increasing demand for livestock products
resulting from rising incomes, particularly in urban areas. This growth has been promoted
by the accelerating reallocation of grain supplies for livestock, rather than human
consumption, and the relative lack of state intervention. China's livestock sector has shown
impressive growth since the initiation of market reforms in 1978. In the last five years
alone (1991-95), livestock inventories showed average annual increases of 6.2 percent for
cattle, 3.6 percent for swine, and 6 percent for sheep and goats. This was accompanied by
productivity increases that led to average annual growth rates in meat production of 25
percent for cattle, 8.6 percent for swine and 12.3 percent for sheep and goats.



- 2 -
1.4   China is continuing to encourage investment in livestock production and processing,
while introducing policies designed to increase the efficiency and international market
competitiveness of its livestock industry. This has led to substantial investment in vertically
integrated animal feed and livestock production and processing enterprises, particularly in
the poultry and pig sectors, as well as in dairying and, most recently, specialized beef
production. Such enterprises frequently make use of out-grower contracts for livestock
production, thus enabling small-scale producers to enjoy the financial benefits of
technology improvements and a degree of protection from market risks.
1.5   Fisheries Sector. In 1994, total production of aquatic products, which includes
both capture and culture production from freshwater and marine sources, reached 21.5
million tons and accounted for 8.2 percent of Gross Value of Agricultural Output. Annual
growth in fishery output has averaged about 17.2 percent over the period 1991 to 1994, with
mariculture recording the highest growth rate of 22.2 percent, followed by freshwater
aquaculture at 19.6 percent. China is now the world's largest producer of aquatic products.
Starting in the mid-1980s, the Government emphasized a production strategy to increase the
supply of fish in urban markets; this strategy was based on expanding the area of fish
cultivation on land unsuitable for crops (low-lying land in the interior and coastal areas),
utilizing more advanced technology and equipment for pond management, and introducing
higher-value species.
1.6   A breakdown of the production structure for 1994 indicates that marine capture
fisheries still provided the bulk of production (42 percent), followed by freshwater
aquaculture (37 percent), mariculture (16 percent) and freshwater capture (6 percent). Over
the 1991-94 period, there has been a gradual but noticeable trend of declining production in
the marine capture subsector and increasing production of mariculture and freshwater
aquaculture.
1.7   Agro-industry. Crop and livestock processing is undertaken by a combination of
state-owned enterprises (with ownership by provincial and county governments), township
and village enterprises (TVEs), and collectives. Since the introduction of reforms in 1978,
the value of goods produced by the nonstate sector has reportedly increased from 2 percent
of industrial output value to over 50 percent in 1994. TVEs were instrumental in creating
jobs and increasing incomes in the rural areas during the 1980s. Many TVEs arc run
without enterprise autonomy, answering to and controlled by local government leaders.
The proliferation of TVEs has presented many environmental problems because they are
usually small-scale industries, utilizing low technology and with little money for adequate
waste treatment facilities, commonly discharging their untreated industrial waste into the
countryside. Their financial condition is not jeopardized by providing social services
(pensions, medical care, housing), but they are frequently undercapitalized with earnings
quickly withdrawn by the local government to be invested elsewhere or meet other financial
obligations.
1.8   State-owned enterprises (SOEs) in China are collectively profitable, though beset by
widespread financial, technical and managerial problems (see "China: Reform of State-



Owned Enterprises, Report No. 14924-CHA, in process). As a group, industrial SOEs
report operating profits of about 2 percent of GDP, but about 40 percent of SOEs incurred
losses amounting to about 1 percent of GDP. As a result, after-tax profits finance only a
small share of their investments and SOEs use a disproportionately large portion of
available credit which generally, is used less productively than in the nonstate sector.
Several policy-related distortions depress the financial performance of SOEs: the tax
regime imposes a heavier burden of taxation, primarily because of tax exemptions given to
foreign-funded nonstate enterprises (this has been discontinued in 1996); price controls
depress earnings of coal, natural gas, fertilizer and grain producers, and these sectors have
recorded substantial losses; providing social services for workers and retirees-education,
health, pensions-imposes tremendous financial cost; and limited autonomy to release
redundant workers leads to inefficiencies and higher production costs.
C. THE RURAL ECONOMY IN HEILONGJIANG
1.9   The Pattern of Development in the Province. Heilongjiang contains 10 percent
of China's arable land; it has the largest area of cultivated land per capita, and is a major
producer of cereals and the largest producer of soybeans. The Daqing Oil Field accounts
for 46 percent of China's known petroleum reserves; substantial mineral deposits have been
identified and many are under intensive exploitation. With such resources, it would seem
paradoxical that the province has historically posed difficult economic and social
development challenges. Large-scale state enterprises were established to exploit natural
resources and provide urban employment during the peak of the centrally-planned
economic period, and state farms were established in remote areas to develop new lands,
secure border areas, and provide grain and animal products to distant urban centers and to
large high-priority SOEs. These large state investments in industry and agriculture, buoyed
by protected markets and subsidized capital, became prominent features of the provincial
economy. Production and incomes from those enterprises masked the problems associated
with the poor condition of many enterprises that were outside this privileged system. The
dependence on large SOEs, the difficulties attendant to their reform, and the delayed
development of other segments of agriculture, industry and local government lie at the heart
of the income and employment difficulties that are now of growing concern to central and
provincial authorities.
1.10  Industry. As a result of state investments, the industrial sector today contributes
about 58 percent of provincial GDP, exceeding the national average of 48 percent, as well
as the share of all regions other than the two most advanced coastal areas. Per capita
income from industry exceeds the national average by 37 percent. But industry in
Heilongjiang, even more than in other provinces, is highly concentrated both geographically
and in terms of number of enterprises. Beyond the large SOEs in energy and basic industry,
processing and manufacturing in the province are characterized by small-scale isolated units
serving local markets and cut off from outside sources of capital, technology and markets.
There has been very little integration or specialization of enterprises in this sector, and
supporting services have been poor. Enterprises at the county level and below, whether



- 4 -
state-owned, collective or private, survived only with the stability of protected local markets
and the absence of competition or technological innovation.
1.11  Agriculture. Heilongjiang covers an area of 45.5 million hectares (ha), of which
about 20 percent is cultivated (8.9 million ha). Agriculture employs 55 percent of the total
population (20.3 million out of 36.4 million). Here again, there are two patterns of
development, with 78 percent of the cultivated land in the hands of small holders (92
percent of the agricultural population) and 22 percent in 108 large state farms (8 percent of
the agricultural population). The major crops are cereal grains (mainly corn, wheat, and
rice, occupying 4.3 million ha) and soybeans (occupying 2.8 million ha). Compared to the
national average, yields of wheat and rice are somewhat lower, but yields of corn and
soybeans are 24 percent and 6 percent higher, respectively. The province is a major
producer of flax, supplying nearly 90 percent of national production, and sugarbeet
(26 percent of national production). With 236,000 square kilometers (km2) of forest area, it
also contributes substantially to national production of timber (19 percent) and sawn lumber
(26 percent). The harsh climate, great distances and relatively low population density have
contributed to a fragmented pattern of agricultural and rural development outside the state
farms.
1.12  Livestock. The province has a vast natural grassland resource extending over 6
million ha (13.2 percent of the total area). The combination of grain surpluses, pasture
availability, and experience nurtured by the livestock husbandry tradition of the farmers,
provides a substantial potential for livestock development. The livestock population in
1995 included 11.4 million pigs, of which 1.04 million were sows; 5.1 million cattle, of
which 0.85 million were dairy cattle; 4.9 million sheep and goats and 25 million geese. In
1995, the total meat production in Heilongjiang was 1.35 million tons, of which red meat
constituted about 80 percent. The province also produced 278,000 tons of poultry meat (20
percent of total meat production) from an offtake of 120 million birds and 790,000 tons of
eggs in the same period. Heilongjiang is also a major milk producer with an output of 1.66
million tons-more than a quarter of the national production; most of this is processed into
dry whole-milk powder. The livestock sector accounted for 9 percent of the gross value of
provincial production and 27 percent of the value of provincial agricultural production.
1.13  Fisheries. Based solely on freshwater sources, Heilongjiang produced 253,000 tons
of aquatic products in 1995, about 1 percent of national production. Of this amount, about
80 percent was from freshwater culture and the balance from capture fisheries. Consumers
rely on interprovincial supplies of frozen freshwater and marine fish. Despite a limited
growing season due to harsh climatic conditions, it has been shown that appropriate pond
design and management technology adapted to a limited growing season and protected
overwintering lead to financially viable fishery culture.
D. CURRENT CHALLENGES IN AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY
1.14  Despite the shift of policy to a socialist market economy, the strategic importance of
the province's SOEs was such that the central governmnent continued to support them well



- 5 -
into the period when reforms were taking hold in other parts of the country. After 1988, the
increasing scarcity of central government resources for investment in the province forced a
slow-down in the inefficient operations of the large SOE's with an indirect impact on other
enterprises that served these core activities with raw materials and intermediate products.
Furthermore, since incomes and savings in the province were closely tied to the well-being
of these enterprises, and of the state farm sector, the private and local government
investment pool that stimulated production in other regions was not forthcoming to the
same degree in Heilongjiang. The result has been a slowdown in economic growth over the
past eight years, and a deterioration in economic performance relative to coastal regions.
1.15  TVEs and their county-level counterparts, developed in Heilongjiang, as elsewhere,
but their access to technology and capital was even more limited, and they tended to focus
much of their production and marketing on the SOEs and urban populations, which are now
in difficulty. The lack of market contact outside the region insulated management from the
pressure to modernize that forced TVEs elsewhere to go through periods of adjustment
since the initial growth in the 1980s. Technology and products are increasingly obsolete
and cost structures noncompetitive. Specific problem areas include declining sales volume,
rising operating costs, low quality production, insolvency, unrealistic asset values, low
creditworthiness, and poor accounting and management information systems.
1.16 Local government institutions have not developed the strength or experience in
planning and management to the same degree as other provinces that have enjoyed greater
autonomy in the past. Past subordination to central agencies on critical investment and
management decisions in the state sector deprived them not only of the learning experience,
but also the resources and administrative capacity that might serve them well in today's
adjustment tasks. Support institutions such as financial intermediaries and training centers
have been held back in their own development by the predominance of old-style state
enterprise demand for their services. To respond to these conditions, the Province has
begun to promote enterprise reform.
E. THE CURRENT STATUS OF ENTERPRISE REFORM
1.17  Three provincial SOEs were selected to participate in a nationwide 100 enterprise
reform program-the Jiamusi Paper Mill, Hualin Rubber Group (tires), and Acheng
Petrochemical Industrial Corporation (textiles). These enterprises have output in the range
of Y 200-300 million. The objective of reform for these enterprises is to achieve clear
definition of property ownership and obligations and rights, separation of ownership and
management, and modern management methods. In line with the central government
reform program, the provincial government has selected 30 enterprises to demonstrate
enterprise reform; however, only two of these are agroprocessing enterprises-Zhaodong
State Grain Storage and Heilongjiang Longjiang Soybean Corporation. The provincial
government is encouraging all SOEs to organize and operate as limited liability companies
in line with the Company Law, with boards of directors and autonomous management. In
the past, it was necessary for applications for reorganization as limited liability companies



- 6 -
to be reviewed and approved by the provincial government; now, the only requirement is
registration at the county level or above with the Industry and Commerce Bureau.
1.18  Heilongjiang has about 625,000 TVEs in operation employing 2.1 million persons.
About 600,000 of these are individual households or joint household operations (mostly
small restaurants and shops), but the remaining 25,000 are collectively-owned village or
township operations. The reform target for the province is to turn these 25,000 enterprises
into limited liability companies by the year 2000. Some 365 of these enterprises have
annual sales >Y 10 million; 184 enterprises are processing agricultural products or
byproducts. Most TVEs joined the provincial social security system in 1994 and generally
do not provide housing. The reform measures will concentrate on separation of ownership
and management and introduction of accounting standards. The Chang An Paper Mill
(Qiqihar) has been performing well in these measures, and the provincial TVE
Administration Bureau has endeavored to publicize its experience.
1.19 The companies applying to become sub-borrowers under the proposed project have
all begun significant enterprise reforms.  During project preparation, agro-industry
subprojects sponsors had been stimulated by the provincial government to arrange for
establishing and registering proposed project enterprises as limited liability companies, with
ownership divided between the state, employees, raw material suppliers, distributors and
other private shareholders. Three of the subprojects are completely in the hands of the
private sector, two as limited liability companies and one as a sole proprietorship, with no
state (neither provincial, county or township) participation whatsoever. It should be noted
that enterprises at the county level or below, which include almost all proposed sub-
borrowers, do not face the heavy social burdens or large payrolls that make reform among
larger SOEs so difficult. Even where project sponsors are one or more SOEs, the new
subprojects are being spun off as independent limited liability companies with diversified
ownership and carry none of the social burdens of the sponsors.
F. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
1.20  Country Assistance Strategy. As discussed with the Bank's Board on March 18,
1997, the Bank Group's objectives are to help China to continue achieving macroeconomic
stability within the context of healthy-and efficient-growth, and to sustain this growth by
helping to ensure that sufficient resources are allocated to priority areas that are not funded
adequately at present. The broad strategy is to underpin five key areas of focus, which
include: support for implementation of macroeconomic and structural reforms (particularly
SOE reform, financial sector reform, and fiscal reform); alleviation of infrastructure
bottlenecks; human development (including poverty reduction and development of the
social sectors); protection of the environment; and development of agriculture and the rural
economy.
1.21  The key issue for the focus on agriculture and the rural economy is that agriculture
and the rural sector are contributing less to the overall economy, as performance lagged
behind other sectors in recent years, and as a result, rural incomes have grown much more



slowly than urban incomes. This contributes to sharpening income disparities between the
coastal and rural provinces, as well as increasing rural-urban migration. Through the Ninth
Five-Year Plan (1996-2000), China has set the agriculture sector at the top of its economic
agenda, with four goals: to achieve greater self-sufficiency in grain (with production rising
to 490-500 million tons by the year 2000); to raise farmers' standard of living; making
better use of technology and speeding up the development of nearby industries that use
agricultural products; and to eliminate poverty.
1.22  Recently, rural-urban migration has increased dramatically due to the surplus rural
labor force and higher growth rates in the coastal areas. More men migrate to the cities, and
agriculture is increasingly left in the hands of women. To account for this development,
agricultural projects will need to target women for training and extension. The Bank
Group's strategy in agriculture recognizes that China has made progress in liberalizing its
policy and price structure, but more needs to be done. Key sector institutions need to be
reformed further, while allowing the nonstate sector to play a greater role in production and
distribution. In particular, improved cooperation and joint ventures among farmers,
breeders, processors, and distributors can result in improved productivity, higher quality,
and greater efficiency. A major thrust of the Bank Group's assistance strategy is to
accelerate commercialization of the agriculture sector and to assist local governments to
develop new income-generation programs (including TVEs) in lagging provinces. In this
case, the program by the Heilongjiang Provincial Government to stimulate reform of
management and ownership patterns in rural industry was directly stimulated by project
identification in October 1994. It was broadened during project preparation, and it is hoped
that successful implementation will provide a powerful demonstration of benefits of
enterprise reform throughout Heilongjiang.
1.23  The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy as outlined
above and the goals set out in China's Ninth Five-Year Plan. It is a pilot effort in a
province that has only recently initiated the reforms, which led to entrepreneurial
development, and it would extend to agro-industry the reforms that have thus far been
focused mainly on industry outside the agricultural sector. While the livestock activities
envisaged under the project require a level of technical ability and resource contribution that
would preclude targeting the absolute poor, most of the incremental labor demand in
livestock production would be satisfied from available household labor, which is grossly
underutilized. Women would be targeted to receive training in livestock and aquaculture
activities. In addition, the establishment and expansion of agroprocessing facilities will
create a significant employment expansion for skilled and unskilled labor and furthers the
integration of breeders, producers and processors of livestock products. The proposed
project supports environmental protection with its attention to sustainable pasture
management practices for livestock production and investment in pollution control
measures for agroprocessing operations. While the effluent from most agroprocessing
activities is usually not difficult to treat, simple treatment measures such as outdoor ponds
and tanks are ineffective in Heilongjiang's severe winter conditions unless enclosed under
cover. In the proposed project, particular emphasis has been placed on incorporating waste



- 8 -
minimization and appropriate treatment of gaseous and liquid waste, and increasing
industrial efficiency of energy use.
1.24  Finally, like many recent Bank lending operations, it touches upon issues related to
enterprise efficiency by adopting for project enterprises the key principles for enterprise
reform: creation of autonomous corporate enterprises with modem financial accounts;
separation of the provision of social services from enterprises; and promotion of greater
flexibility in ownership to facilitate enterprise restructuring through acquisition of new
technologies, management expertise, and financing sources.
G. PAST BANK SUPPORT AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.25  A review by the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department (OED) of area
development projects, published in September 1995, identified a number of project design
elements critical to successful project implementation. The proposed project is consistent
with the recommendations relating to commitment, phased approach, simplicity of design
and integration of components. For example, a common element of success in area
development projects in China has been the degree of government commitment. Both the
central and provincial governments have supported the proposed project and have
mobilized support down to the county and township levels. There is a high degree of
support and interest on the part of project beneficiaries and stakeholders, particularly the
owners of the enterprises, many of whom are workers and farmers producing the
agricultural inputs.
1.26  In addition, the recommendations of recent Implementation Completion Reports of
China agricultural projects (Shandong Agricultural Development Project Report No. 15308
and Xinjiang Agricultural Development Project Report No. 15439) have been incorporated
into preparation of the proposed project. Designs and cost estimates for all agroprocessing
facilities include wastewater treatment systems.  Technical experts, including an
environmental engineer, have actively participated with the Chinese design institutes on the
selection of appropriate agroprocessing equipment. Finally, local consultants have been
engaged to conduct a marketing study for all of the products produced by the supported
facilities. This study will lead to detailed marketing plans for all of the commodities.
1.27  The Heilongjiang Land Reclamation Project (Ln. 2261/Cr. 1347-CHA), one of the
Bank's earliest efforts in China, was implemented between 1983 and 1988 by the
Heilongjiang General Bureau, which was technically a part of the provincial government,
but was also responsible to the Central General Bureau of State Farms and Land
Reclamation in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery. The project
objective was to reduce China's growing foodgrain deficit and to increase the supply of
marketable surplus grain for sale to the urban population, to provide experience in
upgrading mechanized crop production, and serve as a model for development of
uncultivated land in the project. Implementation featured the development of 200,000 ha
of virgin land on state farms in the province for production of wheat, maize and soybeans.
The Project Performance Audit Report attributed the project's satisfactory results to strong



- 9 -
borrower commitment; favorable policy framework; introduction of the Production
Responsibility System; and well-proven technology using improved foreign-manufactured
equipment, previously tested and found adaptable to local conditions.
1.28  Harbin, the provincial capital, was one of eight cities participating in the Freshwater
Fisheries Project (Cr. 1689-CHA) implemented between 1986 and 1992. The objective of
the project was to develop freshwater fisheries in the vicinity of eight major urban centers
by improving existing ponds and using land unsuitable for crops for new pond construction,
provide techniques and equipment for pond management, and strengthen the support
facilities for production and marketing of fish. In the vicinity of Harbin, 1,333 ha of new
ponds were constructed and 333 ha of existing ponds were reconstructed. In the Project
Completion Report, the project was regarded as highly successful, and the main reasons
were attributed to a simple design of the project, subprojects were relatively accessible,
strong sense of ownership and commitment by the implementing agencies and local
governments, speedy implementation with "construction and production in the same year,"
and training provided early in the implementation period. The project has not been audited
by OED.



- 10-
2. THE PROJECT AREA
A. LOCATION
2.1   The proposed project would be located in Heilongjiang Province, the far
northeastern province of China, which takes its name from the river forming its northern
border, the Heilongjiang, which is one of the world's great rivers. The province is bordered
by Nei Mongol Autonomous Region in the west, Russia in the north and east and Jilin
Province in the south. Two major tributaries of the Heilongjiang are the Songhua, which
flows across the province, and the Wusili, which forms its eastern border. The project
would cover 33 counties of six prefectures/municipalities with a total area of about
140,000 km2 located in the Songnen Plain in the southwest and west-central part of the
province. Project locations are shown on IBRD Map 28204. Background provincial and
project area statistics are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
B. CLIMATE, TOPOGRAPHY AND SOILS
2.2   The project area has a temperate-to-cold monsoonal continental climate. Winter is
long, cold and dry and is followed by dry and windy conditions in spring. Summer is warm
and rainy, with most precipitation occurring in the summer and autumn months. The
average temperature varies from about -20°C in January, with an absolute low of -40°C, to
+220C in July, with an absolute high of +38°C. Average annual precipitation is 450 to
550 millimeters (mm) and the frost-free period is 120 to 140 days. Average wind speed is
3 to 4 meters/second (m/s) with a maximum wind speed of 30 to 40 m/s, occurring
primarily in the spring. The area enjoys a long period of sunshine with strong solar
radiation. May to September sunshine amounts to about 1,350 hours. Annual solar
2
radiation is 125-130 kilocalories/square centimeter (cm ), with about 60 kilocalories/cm2
from May to September; this is essentially the same as in the middle and lower reaches of
the Yangtze River Valley.
2.3   Most of the project area is flat to rolling plain with areas of swamps and marshes,
especially along the rivers. The land slopes to the northeast with low mountains along the
south, southeast and western borders. The principal soil types in the project area are
meadow soils, black soils, and black/brown soils, which together account for about 80
percent of the total. These soils are deep loams or clay loams, with good physical
properties, relatively high organic matter content (5-8 percent) and good nutrient status, and
are among the most productive soils in China. Smaller scattered areas of much less fertile
soils comprise sandy soils, and saline and alkaline soils with impeded drainage.



-11-
C. POPULATION, FARM SIZE AND LAND USE
2.4   The rural population in the project area is 12.5 million, of which about 82 percent
obtain their livelihood from agriculture. There are some 2.75 million farm families in the
project area, with an average family size of 4.5 persons. The average farm size is about
2 ha, of which about 1.6 ha is cultivated. Out of a total project area of 14 million ha, there
are about 6 million ha of arable land, most of which is used for grain production. Some
2.85 million ha are classified as forest including shelter belts and farm border plantings, and
there are 2.2 million ha of grassland of variable quality.
D. PRESENT DEVELOPMENT
2.5   Agriculture. Most of the land in the project area is managed by individual
households. The cultivated area is about 4.6 million ha but, because of the short growing
season, generally only one crop a year is grown. Corn and soybean are the main crops,
accounting for more than 50 percent of the cropped area in 1995, and producing 10.8
million tons and 1.07 million tons respectively with average yields of 5.8 tons/ha (corn) and
1.7 tons/ha (soybean). Other grain crops grown include spring wheat, paddy rice, sorghum
and millet, which in 1995 yielded a total of 7 million tons of grain. Sugar beet and potatoes
are the main root crops grown. Flax is a small but significant crop in the project area,
producing about 62,000 tons of fiber annually and accounting for 75 percent of the
province's flax crop. Heilongjiang produces nearly 90 percent of the flax grown in China.
Cultivation is done mostly by small tractors or draft animals including horses, mules and
cattle.
2.6   Livestock. The farm livestock population in the project area in 1995 included 3.36
million cattle, 8.06 million pigs, 3.6 million sheep and goats and 100 million poultry. In
1995, the project area produced more than 1 million tons of meat and 1.24 million tons of
milk. Cattle are kept mainly for beef and as draft animals. Breeding is mostly by artificial
insemination (Al) and more than 50 percent of all cattle are crossbred to Simmental,
Charolais and Limousine bulls for beef production. Beef producers may be specialized
breeders and/or fatteners. Calves are weaned at about 7 months weighing 140-160 kg and
then fattened over 11-12 months to about 425 kg for sale to traders, abattoirs or specialized
household butcheries.
2.7   There is a significant dairy industry in the project area with 694,000 cows, mostly
under individual household management, and accounting for about 70 percent of the
provincial dairy herd. Dairy cows are predominantly Friesian of European or Canadian
origin. Heifers calve at about 2.5 years old and calving intervals are about 14 months.
Average annual milk yields are 3,500-4,000 liters. Most of the fresh milk is supplied to
local processing plants for processing into powdered milk products.
2.8   Few small-scale beef or dairy farmers use commercially mixed feeds, preferning
home-produced or locally purchased grain, crop residues, including ammoniated straw and
corn stover, silage, and the extensive use of agroindustrial by-products, particularly
brewers' and distillers' wastes, which are widely available. Hay is cut and stored for winter



-12-
feeding. Cattle are grazed or stall-fed depending on the availability of pasture. There is
scope to improve the quality of feed through wider adoption of urea-treated stover fed in
combination with soybean and sunflower oilseed cake, and through the introduction of
better silage and hay-making techniques.
2.9   Most grassland is located in areas with saline or alkaline soils and is frequently
overgrazed and degraded. Pasture yields are low, typically less than 1.5-2 tons dry matter
(DM) per ha per year, although about 0.5 million ha of natural pasture has been improved
through the introduction of alfalfa and salt- and alkali-tolerant grass species. The Provincial
Government is now introducing a new policy of long-term pasture lease to private farmers.
Under the new "Contract and Development Plan of the Grassland Resource," farmers, either
individually or collectively, will be eligible to lease state and collectively-owned pasture
land for periods of at least 30 and up to 50 years. Lease prices will be set by land quality,
location and market demand. Lease payments will be directed to special accounts, with up
to 80 percent of the income to be reinvested in pasture research and development and the
balance used to administer the scheme. Government is planning to convert most available
grassland to long-term leasehold by 1998/1999. Adoption of this plan should lead to a
reduction in overgrazing and improved grassland management. Pasture productivity is
expected to increase to 2.25 tons DM per ha by the year 2000, and to 3 ton per ha by 2010.
2.10 Pig breeding is based primarily on crossbreeding the highly fecund indigenous
Northeast China Black with exotic breeds, mostly the Yorkshire White or Landrace in order
to attain a large litter of pigs with medium levels of fat deposition. However, pure exotic
herds are increasing, in response to urban demand for leaner pork. Most pig fattening is
done by smallholder farmers typically in lots of 1-5 pigs utilizing low-cost household waste,
crop residues and agroindustrial by-products. Commercial mineral-vitamin-amino acid
supplements are frequently added to farm-mixed feeds. Pigs are fattened to market weight
(100 kg) in 6-12 months after weaning, depending on the quality of feed and the standard of
management.
2.11   Geese production is primarily a smallholder activity. Geese-rearing households
typically maintain 10 to 15 breeding stock and/or up to 200 growers for slaughter. Goslings
are hatched between April and June, and sold by breeders at 1-5 days old. Eggs are also
traded on the free market for both consumption and as fertilized eggs for hatching.
Goslings are fed a mix of chopped grass and corn meal for the first month, after which they
are grazed daily and fed a corn meal or other concentrate feed supplement. Finished birds
weighing 3.5 to 4 kg at 5-6 months are slaughtered in October/November. Breeding stock
are culled at 3 years of age.
2.12 Animal health is generally good. The incidence of major livestock disease is
extremely low as reflected in overall annual mortality rates, which are less than 1 percent
for cattle, swine and sheep and about 2 percent in poultry flocks. Population incidence of
major diseases of cattle include Tuberculosis (<2 percent), Rinderpest (<0.1 percent),
Leptospirosis (<1 percent), and subclinical mastitis (8-9 percent). There is no incidence of
Foot and Mouth Disease, Leucosis, Blackleg, or Paratuberculosis. In pigs, the incidence of



- 13 -
swine fever is low and erysipelas is low (both <0.1 percent) and is well controlled through a
widespread vaccination program. Similarly, in poultry, Newcastle Disease and Goose
Plague are prevented through comprehensive vaccination programs. Overall, the low level
of disease, particularly enzootic disease, the extensive vaccination program and full cost
recovery for almost all vaccination services provides a sustainable, low animal disease
environment in Heilongjiang.
2.13  Livestock Support Services are provided through a network of Animal Husbandry
Bureau offices at provincial, prefecture, county, township and village level. In the project
area there are 39 city and county livestock technical service centers, 630 township
comprehensive service centers and 2,738 village technical service points. Village and
township centers are remarkably entrepreneurial and frequently profitable with income
derived from service fees and veterinary drug sales. In some cases, the cost of services is
recovered through annual poll charges. At county level and above, animal husbandry
centers are mostly government-funded, in line with their increasingly administrative
function. While existing staff and basic facilities are adequate to cope with the proposed
expansion of livestock production under the project, fully effective extension services are
constrained by inadequate funding for staff training and transportation.
2.14  The animal production and veterinary field services are supported by a group of
specialized agencies. The Animal Breeding Center, which maintains about 87 bulls,
provides semen of dairy and beef cattle breeds for artificial insemination. The Provincial
Feed and Pharmaceutical Supervision Institute is responsible, inter alia, for quality control
of commercial feed, and feed additives. The Province has 126 county-level feed mills and
36 feed additive plants. In 1994, some 928 product samples were tested at the Institute, of
which 85 percent met national standards. The Institute can provide basic feed analytical
services sufficient to meet the needs of the project. Some additional equipment has recently
been provided under the ongoing IDA-financed Agricultural Support Services Project
(ASSP-Cr. 2462-CHA). The Provincial Veterinary Sanitation and Epidemiological
Station is responsible for disease surveillance and for developing cost-effective disease
control strategies. Support for this station is also provided under ASSP.
2.15  Relevant research institutes in the project area include the Grasslands Research
Center, which is working on pasture improvement, and the Animal Science Department of
the Northeast Agricultural University, located in Harbin, which has a diverse livestock
research program including work on breed conservation, animal nutrition, fowl breeding,
pasture improvement and biotechnology. The Breeding and Genetics Branch is capable and
interested to support the project goose selection and breeding programs, which would be
implemented by the Provincial Animal Husbandry Breeding Center, in Qiqihar County.
2.16 Aquaculture. Total fish production in the province in 1994 was about 208,000
tons, of which about 76 percent was cultured carp raised in ponds, lakes and reservoirs. The
province produces a surplus of fingerlings and has adequate facilities for producing feed but
fish yields are low, averaging only 1,800 kilograms/ha (kg/ha) in ponds and 160 kg/ha in
lakes and reservoirs. Increased productivity is constrained by lack of credit, poorly



-14-
designed ponds, low standards of management including low stocking rates, and inadequate
maintenance. Ponds are frequently dug too shallow or are allowed to silt up, making it
difficult to keep fish over the winter when the ponds ice over.
2.17  Livestock Processing. Meat production in the province totaled 1.3 million tons in
1995-with pork accounting for 59 percent of production, beef 18 percent, poultry 21
percent and mutton 2 percent. Production is carried out by township and village abattoirs
(29 percent), privately-owned abattoirs (27 percent), the Provincial Foodstuff Corporation,
which provides technological oversight to 80 county- and city-level abattoirs and cold
stores (9 percent), other SOEs (11 percent) and farmers (25 percent, for their own
consumption). Most of the meat going into the urban market goes through the Provincial
Foodstuff Corporation, particularly since a State Council ban on household slaughter. Meat
processing, mainly cooked meat and sausage production, is carried out by some 221 SOEs,
250 collectives, 76 TVEs and 364 "other" for whom the Public Health Department monitors
sanitary conditions.
2.18  Grain Processing.  The provincial Grain Bureau, which is administratively
responsible for 313 enterprises (rice and corn processing, wheat flour, vegetable oil,
alcohol, starch), processes about 70 percent of grain production, with the balance processed
by TVEs (10 percent), State Farm enterprises (<10 percent) and others, i.e., Army farms,
Foreign Trade Corporation, Bureau of Light Industry (13 percent). These enterprises had a
total output of Y 3.6 billion in 1995 and employed about 55,000 people. Most of them are
SOEs, though a small number are collectives and about 15 percent are organized as
shareholding companies or joint ventures. Of these enterprises, 292 enterprises have the
status of legal entities, are financially autonomous and operate independently; 21 are
considered as subsidiaries to other enterprises.
2.19 Transport and Power Supply. Project area communications benefit from having
the Daqing oil field located at its center. Four railway lines and three main highways
connect the main cities and towns with the provincial capital. This network is accessible to
virtually all project processing plants. There are adequate secondary and tertiary roads
linking smaller towns and villages serving crop, livestock and fish production bases. The
provincial power grid serves the project area and provides access to electricity to all towns
and some villages. However, it will be necessary to supplement or extend the power supply
to a number of project sites.
E. WOMEN IN THE PROJECT AREA
2.20 The All-China Women's Federation (ACWF) in Heilongjiang, as in other provinces
throughout China, is active in addressing women's issues. By law, women have equal right
to employment in enterprises, although they are banned from working with poisonous
substances and physically heavy labor. Enterprises are also required by law to provide
mothers three months' paid leave after childbirth and many give an additional month of
leave before the expected birth. Private nurseries, regulated by the Education Commission,
and babysitters (generally older, retired women in the neighborhood) are increasingly the



- 15 -
alternatives to company-provided day care. As in many other inland provinces, increasing
numbers of men have found employment in towns and cities and left farming activities in
the hands of rural women. As a result, more than 50 percent of rural household income is
provided by women, predominantly from livestock activities. In rural areas, ACWF takes a
role in providing training in rural technology to women and organizing them to participate
in training offered by other agencies. An important source of training for some 30,000 rural
women in the province has been the Agriculture Broadcasting University, which includes
one-month residence at a local university; more than 12,000 have received farmer
technician certificates and about 600 have become agro-engineer assistants through this
program. Because project livestock activities are mainly carried out by women, they are
being targeted for project-sponsored training in livestock and in aquaculture.



-16-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The primary objectives of the project are to raise incomes and living standards,
stimulate market-oriented enterprise development in rural Heilongjiang industries, and
expand rural employment by increasing livestock and aquaculture production and
expanding or improving crop and livestock processing. The project would introduce new
production and processing technologies, ani promote better planning and management to
respond to market demands. It would also enhance environmental standards in the design
of crop and livestock processing plants, develop monitoring systems and promote sound
environmental protection practices.
3.2   Project monitoring indicators (Table 3.1) would focus on the livestock and
aquaculture development under farm household management and expansion and
improvement of agroprocessing, including enterprise reform measures. Development of the
indicators is based on the assumption that the project implementation will be carried out
over a five-year period and the subloans for livestock and aquaculture will be extended for
six years, including two years' grace, and for agroprocessing, nine years, including three
years' grace. The major risks to achieving both project implementation and development
objectives lie in inadequate counterpart funding and slippage in procurement of major
processing equipment.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.3   The main features of the project are:
(a)   expansion of livestock raising including cattle, pigs, geese and fox;
(b)   aquaculture, including expansion and improvement of facilities for carp
polyculture;
(c)   agroprocessing, including construction of new  and expansion and
improvement of existing facilities for processing milk, beef, pigs and geese,
cereals, oilseeds, beans and fruit; and
(d)   institutional development, including strengthening of livestock and crop
supporting services, technical assistance and training.



Table 3.1: Key Performance Indicators
Project Objective      Key Performance Indicators     Baseline    Int Yr    Int Yr    Mid-term      ICR Year    FULL Dev.   Risks & Critical Assumptions
Year    (Year 1)  (Year 2)    (Year 3)
Raise incomes and    Output indicator
living standard
No. households in livestock &                  15.50     45.80      49.30           52.80      52.80    Timely provision of counterpart
acquaculture ('000)                                                                                      funds
Output indicator
Production output
Beef cattle ('000)                              0.00     24.60     74.00           123.20     123.20
Milk('OOOtons)                                 11.00     39.10     65.00           99.00       99.00
Geese (million)                                 1.70      5.00      5.00             5.00       5.00
Fattened pigs ('000)                            0.00     13.30     43.00           108.00     108.00
Fish ('000 tons)                                5.30      8.80       8.80            8.80       8.80
Impact indicator
Average p.c. income farm households    1,465    -    steady increase to         2,681       2,681
Generate employment Impact indicator
Farm family labor utilization rate  41%        47%       61%       65%           69%           69%
Additional farm hired labor ('000 days)  0    121.20    391.30    493.90        565.70        595.70
Additional industrial labor
Full time positions                            -    steady increase to       2,860         2,860
Part time positions                            -    steady increase to        1,120        1,120
Stimulate enterprise   Output indicator
development
Enterprise incremental Profit (Ymln)           -222.70   -419.90    -77.40        273.60        273.60    Timely procurement of equipment;
production beginning in Year 3
Impact indicator
Enterprise reform (number of enterprises)
Establishment as LLC under Co. Law   12         12        19        19            19            19
Holding 14 autonomous management                 2        10        19            19            19
rights
Profit as percentage of sales                    0         0         0            16            20       Profits start in Year 4
(aggregated)



-18 -
C. DETAILED FEATURES
Livestock
3.4   Cattle Fattening. About 7,200 farm families in 22 counties would fatten between
10 and 20 cattle annually. Young stock for fattening would be supplied from the provincial
cattle herd of 5.1 million head, which is growing at 5-8 percent per year, and from an
increasingly active livestock trading market that draws stock from neighboring provinces to
feed-rich Heilongjiang. Cattle would be purchased at 7-12 months of age weighing 160-
180 kg and fattened to an average weight of about 425 kg at 18-24 months old. Feed
rations would include corn silage, grass hay, corn (grain), brewers waste, soybean cake and
vitamin/mineral additives. The project would finance, on credit, the initial supply of young
stock, construction of a cattle shed, feed store, and silage pit and provision of a hand cart
and a motorized corn stover shredder to be collectively shared by groups of up to 30
farmers. Working capital would be provided to cover the operating costs of the first full
year. Farmers would be required to complete shed and silage pit construction before taking
delivery of their cattle. Loan repayments will be scheduled over six years.
3.5   Dairy Farming. About 6,440 farm households in six counties would receive 2-4
in-calf heifers on credit; the project would also provide for construction of a cow shed, feed
store and silage pit and provision of milk cans, a hand cart, and a corn stover shredder to be
shared by groups of up to 30 farmers. Larger associations of about 40 participating farmers
would receive a minitractor. Working capital covering up to 25 percent of the first full
year's operating costs would be provided. Farmers would be required to complete shed and
silage pit construction and establish a cooperative agreement for sharing a stover shredder
and a minitractor before taking delivery of their cattle. Loan repayments will be scheduled
over six years.
3.6   Pig Breeding and Fattening. The project would support the development of pig
breeding and fattening in 11 counties. About 340 households would establish breeding
units each with 19 female breeding stock and one boar. These specialized households
would produce a total of about 110,000 weaned piglets for sale each year. Breeding stock
would be from lean European or American breeds, which are readily available in the
province. Each sow would produce on average 17 weaned piglets per year. Sows and boars
would be replaced every three years.
3.7   Some 3,670 farm households would establish pig fattening farms, which would be
equally divided between 10- and 20-pig units. Weaned piglets would be purchased at 18-
20 kg and fattened to 100 kg. Each household would complete two cycles of pig fattening
annually, with losses estimated at 5 percent. Pigs would be fed a base mix of corn, soybean
cake and soybean meal supplemented with a vitamin/mineral mix, salt and bone meal with
all feed mixed on the farm. The project would provide breeding stock and piglets on credit
for the initial fattening cycle, pig sheds and feed stores, feed utensils, a hand cart, a
disinfectant sprayer and miscellaneous equipment. Working capital covering the operating
costs of the first breeding or fattening cycle would be provided. Farmers would be required



-19-
to complete pig shed construction before taking delivery of their pigs. Loan repayments
would be scheduled over six years.
3.8   Fox Breeding. The project would finance the expansion of a privately operated
nucleus fox breeding farm in Suihua County, which is already linked to a network of private
smallholder fox multiplication farms. Investment for the nucleus farm would include
rearing sheds, a feed processing workshop and cold store, a veterinary clinic, a power
substation, boiler house, offices, and a farmer training center. The project would also
provide on credit 800 imported stud silver foxes (160 breeding sets of four females and one
male) from a recognized breeder, feed processing, veterinary, laboratory and office
equipment and supplies, and incremental working capital to cover operating costs for the
first two years. On completion, the nucleus breeding farm would produce an additional
3,500 foxes annually, of which 1,800 would be selected as breeding stock for sale to
smallholders and the remainder would be processed.
3.9   Goose Breeding. The project would establish a goose breeding center at the
Provincial Animal Husbandry Breeding Center in Qiqihar. The center would raise
grandparent (GP) lines of imported Laine and domestic Fissured Eye geese, and would
breed and sell 240,000 goslings annually as parent stock of both lines to 970 specialized
households in nine participating counties. Each specialized household would receive on
credit 250 parent breeding stock for crossbreeding whose eggs would be sold to nine county
hatcheries to be established under the project. The nine county hatcheries would have a
total annual output of 5.2 million crossbred goslings. The project would finance the
construction of goose-breeding sheds, hatcheries, feed stores and offices and the initial
purchase of breeding stock. Equipment to be provided would include incubators, rearing
chambers, generators and transformers, and miscellaneous farm tools and equipment. The
project would also provide for vehicles, training and working capital.
3.10  Goose Fattening. About 33,300 households in nine counties would each raise
between 100 and 200 geese a year. Crossbred goslings would be purchased from the county
hatcheries in May/June and would be fattened, mostly on grass, supplemented with crop
residues and limited concentrate feed over 5-6 months. Geese would attain an average live
weight of 4 kg and be ready for slaughter in October/November. The project would include
the initial goslings, construction of night pens, concentrate feedstuff and veterinary services.
3.11  Feed Demand. The livestock feed demand under the project, with an annual
offtake of 108,000 pigs, 123,000 cattle, 110,000 tons of milk and 5 million geese, is not
expected to exceed available feed resources.  Incremental production represents an
approximate 3 percent rise in dairy cattle, 1.2 percent increase in swine, 10 percent increase
in beef, and a 15 percent increase in geese. Generally, pigs and dairy and beef cattle will be
stall-fed with grains and agricultural by-products supplemented with maize silage and grass
hay. Geese will be grazed extensively, however, they will be dispersed over a broad area
and their impact on range condition is expected to be minimal.



-20-
Aquaculture
3.12  The project would expand fish production in five counties and two cities. About
584 ha of new fish ponds would be constructed, and some 237 ha of existing low-yield
ponds would be rehabilitated.  The ponds would be contracted to 725 individual
households. A high-production carp model would be adopted., in which ponds would be
stocked with 80 percent common carp, 10 percent silver carp and 5 percent each of grass
carp and bighead carp. The ponds would have a water depth of 3 m to enable the fish to
survive over winter. The project would also finance the restocking of a 12,000 ha natural
lake with mixed carp species. The existing collective managing the lake fishery would be
increased from 75 to 150 members. Funds would be provided for pond excavation and
improvement and for construction of stores, pump houses and wells and electric power
supply lines, and supply of pumps, pipe and transformers. Vehicles, small boats, and
miscellaneous equipment would also be provided.
Agroprocessing
3.13  This component would include 19 livestock and crop processing enterprises,
involving both improvement and expansion of existing facilities and establishment of new
plants. The proposed development would ensure a close integration of raw material
supplies with processing, and enterprises would be encouraged to solicit share contributions
from farmers providing raw materials for processing. The crop processing enterprises
would utilize readily available cereals and oil seeds, which are produced in abundance in
the province. The livestock processing enterprises would provide the additional (and
upgraded) capacity to handle the incremental production under the project. A significant
feature of this component would be the reform measures to be carried out by the
participating processing enterprises-creation of autonomous corporate enterprises with
clear lines of governance, a fully transparent set of modem financial accounts, and clearly
defined management prerogatives and responsibilities. Participating subprojects have been
selected on the basis of the following eligibility criteria:  separate legal identity,
independent management structure and mandate, separate accounts and financial
statements, and satisfactory financial performance for at least the previous three years.
Should any of the selected enterprises drop out of the project, replacements would be
subject to the same eligibility criteria and subject to Bank approval. Once established, the
project enterprises would not undertake expansion until the project loans have been repaid.
Financing would cover expenditures for construction of buildings, machinery and
equipment, vehicles and training. Investments would also provide for comprehensive
wastewater treatment systems, and incremental working capital. The proposed processing
plants would utilize readily available raw material to generate added value and provide
increased employment in the project area. Subproject proposals were reviewed for market
strategy, appropriate technology, provision for adequate training and technical support, and
projected financial performance. Use of patented or otherwise legally protected technology
would be consistent with the enterprise's legal rights and obligations. Enterprises would be
required to make an equity contribution to proposed investment costs of not less than 30
percent. Subproject details are provided in Annex 2 and sunmarized below.



-21-
3.14  Livestock Processing. The following enterprises would be included in the project:
(a)   Binxian County Cattle Abattoir. Construction of a new plant with a
slaughter line, cold store and processing facilities to handle 30,000 head/year
producing about 5,300 tons of meat;
(b)   Hulan County Pig Abattoir. Construction of a new plant with a slaughter
line, cold store and processing and packaging facilities to handle 200,000
head/year producing about 10,250 tons of meat products;
(c)   Geese Processing. Improvement and expansion of seven existing plants to
process a total of 4 million geese and produce 12,600 tons of meat products
and 120 tons of down; and
(d)   Anda County Milk Processing. Expansion of an existing plant to produce
6,000 tons/year of ultra heat treated (UHT) milk.
3.15  Crop Processing. The following enterprises would be included in the project:
(a)   Zhaozhou Corn Starch Processing Plant. Expansion of an existing plant
utilizing 12,000 tons of corn starch per year to produce 10,000 tons of
crystalline glucose, 6,000 tons of biodegradable polymers and 500 tons of
acetyl propionic acid;
(b)   Tailai Mung Bean Processing. Construction of a new plant utilizing 640
tons per year of mung beans to produce 1,000 tons of instant beverage;
(c)   Suihua Rice MilL  Expansion and modernization of an existing mill
processing 60,000 tons of paddy per year to produce 41,000 tons of high-
quality rice and 10,840 tons of by-products.
(d)   Nehe Wheat Mill. Modernization of an existing mill processing 50,000
tons of wheat per year to produce 36,000 tons of flour, including 17,500 tons
of specialized high- and low-gluten content flour and 7,500 tons of special-
purpose flour;
(e)   Bayan Corn Processing Plant. Construction of a new plant to process
18,000 tons of wet starch to produce 6,000 tons of modified starch;
(f)   Lanxi Soybean Oil Mill. Expansion of an existing plant processing about
30,000 tons of soybean and linseed per year with an additional processing
line to produce 2,000 tons of refined soy bean epoxy oil and 3,200 tons of
refined soybean oil;
(g)   Lanxi Flax Seed Processing. Construction of a new flax seed processing
plant to process 5,000 tons of seed annually;



-22-
(h)   Qiqihar Seabuckthorn Fruit Processing. Construction of a new plant to
process 6,300 tons per year of seabuckthorn fruit to produce 700 tons of
juice concentrate and 47 tons of oil extract; and
(i)   Shuangeheng Corn Starch Processing. Construction of a new plant to
process 28,400 tons per year of wet starch to produce 14,300 tons of sorbitol
(70 percent) and 2,400 tons of molasses.
Institutional Development
3.16  Supporting Services for Livestock. The project would support the development of
a livestock management information system at the Heilongjiang Livestock Information and
Training Center through provision of computers, software and associated equipment. The
Information Center would be linked to key provincial livestock centers and to all project
counties through a wide area network. The Animal Breeding Center would be strengthened
through the upgrading of its semen processing facilities, procurement of new breeding
stock, and strengthening a small commercial embryo transfer program. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the price of semen produced at the Animal Breeding Center
would be increased by June 30, 2000 and adjusted periodically thereafter to achieve full
recovery of its cost of production. To this end Heilongfiang wouldfurnish the proposed
price to the Bank by January 1, 2000 for comment. Grassland research, focused on raising
pasture protein levels, primarily through legume introductions, would be supported under
the project. In addition, the project would finance a comparative goose breed performance
study at the Heilongjiang Provincial Animal Husbandry Breeding Institute. The study
would run for five years and would compare the performance and relative profitability of a
range of domestic goose lines against one or more imported breeds. The project would
strengthen livestock support services through the provision of transport and equipment.
Four-wheel-drive vehicles and small trucks would be provided for extension and disease
control, and specialized trucks for transporting liquid nitrogen for Al services.
3.17  Supporting Services for Crops. Both corn and soybean are important constituents
in livestock feed rations and are the raw materials for a number of proposed processing
enterprises. Ten seed facilities in the counties of Shuangcheng, Bayan, Hulan, Wangkui,
Suiling, Qiqihar, Zhaodong, Zhaoyang, Nehe and Dedu would be strengthened under the
project by upgrading the existing processing facilities. These units serve major corn- and
soybean-growing areas in the province. The project would finance construction of about
2
1,200 m of buildings for seed processing, and each unit would be equipped with a seed
processing line with a capacity to process at least 2,400 tons per year of corn and soybean
seed. The equipment would include dryers, cleaners, sorters, coating machines, weighing
and packing machines and seed testing and office equipment.
3.18  Project Management Support. The project would provide communication, data
processing and other office equipment for project offices at provincial, prefecture, county
and township levels.



-23 -
Training and Technical Assistance
3.19 Livestock. Farmer training in livestock management and animal health for a total of
about 2,590 person-months would be provided. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that at least 80 percent of the trainees in the farmer training program should be female.
Technical staff from the villages, townships and counties would receive a total of about 666
person-months of training. Higher-level training for provincial staff would total about
223.5 person-months. Topics to be covered would include animal breeding, nutrition and
management, and information systems and computer equipment management. Local and
overseas study tours covering beef and dairy production and management, and management
information systems would be conducted for a total of 23 and 21 person-months,
respectively. The training of provincial level trainers would be supported by domestic and
foreign technical assistance for a total of 65 and 15 person-months, respectively.
3.20 Aquaculture. Training under the aquaculture component includes 20 person-
months for technicians and 206 person-months for farmers, and domestic study tours for 46
persons. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that at least 30 percent of the trainees
in the aquaculture training program would be female.
3.21  Livestock and Crop Processing. The component would provide about 2,160
person-months of technical training in plant operations for staff and workers, 174 person-
months of training in business development for enterprise managerial and accounting staff,
12 months of overseas training, 29 person-months of domestic study tours, and 20 person-
months of overseas study tours. In addition, it would provide 28 person-months of
domestic technical assistance (TA) and 25 person-months of international TA, mainly for
training in the operation and maintenance of new slaughter lines and meat processing in
order to meet export quality standards. The project also includes TA (2 person months
each, of domestic and international) to undertake a study of the environmental and public
health problems in the livestock processing sector in Heilongjiang (para. 3.42). An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that Heilongiiang would employ consultants to
carry out this study and the goose breeding study (para. 3.16) not later than December 31,
1997.
3.22 Project Management and Crop Support. Project management staff at all levels
would receive training in accounting, monitoring, computer applications, and project
administration procedures totaling 152 person-months. In addition, the project would
provide 1,870 person-months of training to seed farmers and seed processing technicians.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Heilongfiang would furnish to the Bank by
November 30 of each year, a proposed program of training activities to be carried out in
the following calendar year and thereafter, implement such program as approved by the
Bank.
D. STATUS OF PREPARATION
3.23  Preliminary designs have been prepared for all the components. Feasibility studies
have been carried out on all of the crop and livestock processing plants, and conceptual



-24-
designs are generally at an advanced stage. Existing standard designs would be adopted for
farm buildings under the livestock production component. During preparation missions and
appraisal, the World Bank staff and consultants, working with the Provincial Project
Management Office (PMO), have reviewed about 50 agroprocessing proposals, of which 19
have been found generally suitable to participate in the project. In appraising subprojects,
three major factors were considered: the commitment of the enterprise to reform and to
environmentally-sustainable operations; the potential viability and profitability of the
proposed investment; and the capacity of the sponsors to repay the proposed loan (para.
3.13).
E. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
3.24  The project would be implemented over a period of five years. Project completion
is expected by June 30, 2002, and the loan closing by June 30, 2003. Aquaculture activities
would be phased over two years and livestock production over four years. Construction and
commissioning of crop and livestock processing plants would be completed over three years
and the plants would reach full production capacity in the fourth or fifth year. An
implementation schedule is shown in Chart 1.
F. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
3.25  The total project cost is estimated at $239.8 million, with a foreign exchange
component of $92.2 million or 38 percent of the total. Cost estimates are derived from
the preliminary designs (para. 3.23) and unit prices currently prevailing in the project area
or from price lists of local and overseas manufacturers of machinery and equipment.
Taxes and duties ($7.5 million) are included in the estimated costs.  Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been included for civil works, materials, machinery and
equipment. Price contingencies for both foreign and local costs when expressed in US
dollars are based on annual international price escalation rates for all goods and services
of 1.7 percent for 1997, 2.2 percent for 1998, 2.6 percent for 1998, 2.8 percent for 2000,
2.6 percent for 2001 and 2.5 percent for 2002. When expressed in Yuan, they are based
on price escalation rates of 8 percent for 1997, 7 percent for 1998 and 6.5 percent for
1999-2002. Estimated costs are summarized in Table 3.2 and detailed in Annex 3.
3.26  The proposed IBRD loan of $120 million would finance 50 percent of total
project costs, equivalent to 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 19 percent of local
costs. The balance of project costs would be financed by local sources as summarized in
Table 3.3.
3.27 The Government of China has selected LIBOR-based US dollar single currency
loan terms for the project in order to facilitate management of the foreign exchange risk
of its borrowing by more closely matching the currency of its liabilities with that of net
trade flows, about 75 percent of which are US dollar denominated. Selection of the
LIBOR-based product would preserve the full maturity of the loan, compared to the fixed
rate option, which would have resulted in a 15-year loan. The Borrower judges that it can
manage the interest rate risk.



-25 -
TABLE 3.2: COST SUMMARY
Y million                 $ million       % foreign   % Base
Component             Local  Foreign   Total      Local Foreign  Total  exchange    Cost
Livestock
Dairy                 127.5   62.9    190.4       14.0   6.9    20.9    33           10
Beef                  360.4  145.6    506.0       39.5   16.0    55.4    29          26
Pig                    66.2   28.8      95.0      7.2    3.2    10.4    30            4
Geese                 100.8   43.1    143.9       11.0   4.7    15.7    30            7
Fox                     5.6    5.3      11.0       0.6    0.6     1.2    49           1
Aquaculture             44.1   15.6      59.7       5.3    1.9    7.2    26            3
Agroprocessing
Crops                 313.0  264.7    577.7      35.5   29.2    64.7    45           30
Livestock             137.6  125.7    263.3       15.6   13.8   29.4    47           14
Institutional Dev.      44.9   48.3      93.2      4.9    5.3    10.2    52            5
Total Base Cost    1,200.1  740.1   1,940.2    133.7   81.5   215.2    38         100
Physical contingencies  77.7   64.9    142.6        8.5    7.1    15.7    45           7
Price contingencies    180.9  119.8    300.7        5.4    3.5     8.9    39           4
Total Project Cost  1,458.7  924.9  2,383.5    147.6   92.2   239.8    38         111
Note: Totals may not add due to rounding.
TABLE 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(in $ million)
Source                        Local         Foreign          Total      Percent Financing
World Bank                     27.8         92.2             120.0             50
Provincial Government          63.8           0               63.8              27
Beneficiaries                  56.0           0               56.0             23
Total                      147.6          92.2           239.8             100
G. PROCUREMENT
3.28   The Bank's Procurement Guidelines, January 1995 and revised January and August
1996, will be applied to all Bank-financed procurement. The Model Documents which
have been agreed between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Bank in July 1996,
would be adopted for all international competitive bidding (ICB) and national competitive



-26-
bidding (NCB) for civil works and goods, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form would be
used. The procurement profile is shown in Table 3.4.
TABLE 3.4: PROCUREMENT PROFILE
($ million)
Procurement Method
Items                           ICB    NCB    Other /a    NBF /b    Total
Works                             -     16.6    32.3        -          48.9
-     (6.8)  (18.9)       -         (25.7)
Equipment                       39.2    13.4     4.8        -          57.4
(34.4)  (10.6)   (3.5)                (48.5)
Vehicles                         3.4      -      0.5        -           3.9
(3.4)          (0.4)                  (3.8)
Livestock Inputs                 -       -      44.4        -          44.4
(38.1)                (38.1)
Overseas training and            -       -        1.8       -           1.8
technical assistance                          (1.8)                  (1.8)
Domestic training and technical  -       -       2.1        -           2.1
assistance                                     (2.1)                 (2.1)
Miscellaneous /c                 -       -        -        24.3        24.3
(0.0)       (0.0)
Working capital                  -       -        -        57.0        57.0
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                        42.6    30.0    85.9       81.3       239.8
(37.8)  (17.4)  (64.8)     (0.0)     (120.0)
/a  Other procurement methods include force account for works, direct contracting and
shopping for small equipment, livestock and materials, training and consultant
services.
/b NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
/c Miscellaneous include $7.5 million of taxes, $1.8 million of transportation costs,
$1.7 million of land acquisition and compensation and $13.3 million of other costs
(including management, technical transfer fee and other costs).
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank including
contingencies.



-27-
Works
3.29  Civil works and buildings worth about $48.9 million would be required for the
project including agroprocessing and farm buildings and civil works for factory site
development, waste treatment facilities and aquaculture development. Works would be
spread over 33 counties and carried out over four years and would be too dispersed to be of
interest to foreign construction companies. About $16.6 million of buildings and civil
works for agroprocessing, aquaculture, and livestock breeding centers would be procured on
the basis of NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Farm buildings and minor works for
livestock raising, and some fishpond development ($32.3 million), would consist of many
small undertakings spread throughout the project area and would be built, with the Bank's
prior agreement, under force account by local labor forces mobilized by the counties,
townships and villages in cooperation with the beneficiaries.
Goods
3.30  Goods worth about $105.7 million would be required for the project. ICB
procedures would apply to most agroprocessing equipment ($39.2 million) and most
vehicles ($3.4 million). To the extent practicable, contracts for goods would be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more for each. A
margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods or the actual
customs duties and taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed to qualified domestic
manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures. Numerous other items of processing
equipment, and some equipment for the animal breeding center and county goose
hatcheries ($13.4 million) of many different types for installation at dispersed locations
over a period of three to four years, none of which could efficiently be grouped into
packages of more than $250,000, would be procured through NCB procedures. Most
livestock ($43.4 million) would be procured in small batches from local markets and
suppliers by direct contracting; cattle, geese and fox breeding stock and specialized
equipment for breeding centers ($1.0 million) would be procured through international
shopping. Some factory and farm vehicles ($0.5 million), and small quantities of
equipment, instruments and miscellaneous goods under contracts not exceeding $50,000
($5.3 million in aggregate) would be procured through national shopping.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.31  Training and technical assistance worth $3.9 million would be undertaken for the
project. Employment of all consultants would be in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines for the use of consultants dated August 1981 and the Bank Group Standard
Form of Contract for consultants' services dated June 1995 would be used.
3.32  World Bank Review. All ICB contracts for goods, and works contracts of
$250,000 or more would be subject to prior review by the Bank. This would cover 69
percent and 27 percent of the total value of goods (excluding livestock inputs $44.4 million)
and works, respectively. The percentage of prior review of works is low because
investment is primarily in small farm buildings. Other contracts would be subject to ex-



-28-
post review by supervision missions. During the first year of implementation, the target for
ex-post review would be 1 in 20 contracts and based on this experience, the ratio in
subsequent years would be adjusted accordingly. All contracts for consultant services in
excess of $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior review
by the Bank. In addition, all terms of reference and sole-source selections of consultants are
subject to prior review. Heilongjiang Province has selected the China Machinery Import/
Export Corporation and the China Minerals and Metal Import/Export Corporation to assist
in procurement.
H. DISBURSEMENTS
3.33  The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed as follows:
TABLE 3.5: ALLOCATION OF PROCEEDS
Category                   Amount             Percent Disbursement
($ million)
I. Civil Works
A. Parts A and B of the   20.2   59% of expenditures
Project
B. Part C of the Project   5.5   38% of expenditures
II. Goods (including         90.4   100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
Livestock)                       expenditures (ex-factory or ex-farmgate cost);
and 75% for other goods procured locally
IV. Consultants' Services,    3.9   100% of expenditures
Training and Study Tours
Total            120.0
3.34 To avoid delays in startup of the project, retroactive financing is recomnmended for
payments made between December 1, 1996 and the date of signing the Loan Agreement.
The following activities are likely to be covered: the goose grandparent breeding center
(purchase of breeding stock and site preparation); minor civil works and equipment for the
Provincial Livestock Information Center; initial site preparation for agroprocessing
enterprises and seed processing facilities; and training for enterprise management and
accounting staff and key project management office personnel. The total amount of
retroactive financing would be $4 million based on work programs reviewed by the Bank.
3.35  Statements of expenditure would be required for disbursements to be made against
(a) contracts for goods costing less than $250,000, (b) civil works costing less than



-29-
$250,000, (c) study tours and training, and (d) consultants' services costing less than
$100,000 for firms, and less than $50,000 for individuals. Disbursements for all works
carried out under force account would be made against statements of physical progress
achieved at each site at unit prices agreed with the Bank at the start of the project and
subject to annual review.
3.36  To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account to be operated by the Provincial
Finance Bureau would be established in a bank acceptable to the World Bank, with an
initial deposit of $7 million, which is the four month estimated average disbursement
through the account. An estimated schedule of disbursements is provided in Annex 3.
I. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
3.37 Records of expenditures on civil works, equipment and materials would be
maintained individually by participating agroprocessing enterprises. These records would
be forwarded to the county PMOs, where similar records of expenditures on the livestock
and aquaculture components would be maintained. These complete records would be
forwarded regularly to the provincial PMO who would prepare consolidated project
accounts including their own records of expenditures. Consolidated project accounts would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audited reports would be
furnished by the auditors directly to the Bank. The Special Account would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited accounts for the entire
project together with the auditor's report would be submitted to the Bank within six months
of the close of each calendar year. The consolidated audit report would include details of
withdrawals from the Loan account made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure and the
auditor's opinion as to whether such withdrawals were against expenditures eligible for
reimbursement by IBRD. In addition, the agroprocessing enterprises would have their
financial statements audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and would
submit auditor's report to the Bank within six months of the close of each calendar year.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
3.38  The project was assigned to Category B for the purposes of Operational Directive
4.01. The main potential environmental issues with the project are related to: (a) the
aquaculture component; and (b) the agroprocessing components.
3.39  Aquaculture.  The environmental issue potentially of substance with the
aquaculture component relates to the current land use in the aquaculture development areas.
The wetlands of Heilongjiang are important migratory bird habitats that have been
significantly reduced in area over the last few decades due to land reclamation activities.
All aquaculture development sites proposed for rehabilitation and new development under
the project were visited during project preparation. The rehabilitation sites (287 ha in total)
are already being used for aquaculture. Rehabilitation would mainly involve deepening of
the existing ponds and there would be no associated adverse environmental impact. One of
the proposed new development sites was rejected on the grounds that it was a functioning
wetland. All other new sites (584 hectares in total) were cleared for inclusion in the project



- 30-
as they involved extension of existing aquaculture areas into what is at present wasteland
and, as such, would not result in adverse impacts.
3.40  Crop and Livestock Processing. The project will support investments in the
expansion or new development of 9 crop processing and 10 livestock processing facilities.
All 19 establishments were the subject of environmental impact assessments prepared in
accordance with relevant Government of China regulatory requirements. These were also
reviewed by relevant Bank staff. All processing factories are of small to medium size and
the main associated environmental issue is water pollution. Experience has shown that
control of air pollution-generally associated with boilers used for raising steam-is not
generally a problem with factories such as these since air pollution control equipment is
supplied as an integral part of boiler equipment currently being sold in China. An
additional issue identified as a result of site inspections during project preparation related to
the general lack of adequate public health standards in livestock processing factories, which
is indicative of shortcomings in province-wide regulatory arrangements in the livestock
processing sector (para. 3.42).
3.41  Preliminary designs for control of water pollution including both in-plant controls
(waste minimization) and end-of-pipe treatment plants have been reviewed by the Bank.
Water pollutants will mainly be organic material, color and turbidity and wastewater flows
will be low to medium. None of the proposed processing plants will produce toxic or
intractable water pollutants. The main pollution sources will be the corn, starch and oil
processing factories and the beef and pig abattoirs. However, due to the deficiencies
evident in the preliminary designs, an assurance was obtained at negotiations that
Heilongliang would engage the services of a team of independent pollution control experts
acceptable to the Bank to review final detailed designs.
3.42  Deficiencies identified in public health conditions in livestock processing factories,
indicated a need to improve the standards and effectiveness of public health supervision in
the livestock slaughtering and meat processing industries within the Province. These are
matters of concern to both the National and Provincial Governments and some effort has
been made recently to improve supervisory standards. Nevertheless, there remains a need
to identify a lead agency to be responsible for oversight of these industries. An initial step,
to be supported under the project, is for a study of the environmental and public health
problems in the livestock processing sector in Heilongjiang. Terms of Reference for the
study are contained in Annex 7. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that
Heilongiiang would engage consultants by December 31, 1997 to carry out the study and
provide the findings of the study and a plan for implementation of the recommendations for
Bank review by December 31, 1998.
3.43  Resettlement.  Resettlement necessitated by the project is limited to the
agroprocessing component where 4 ha of land would be acquired for three new enterprises.
The land is currently being farmed by six families and three single persons, in total 20
persons. No housing or other infrastructure is involved. These families would receive
compensation for crops in accordance with applicable Chinese law. Three families (eight



- 31 -
persons) would be allocated the same amount of new farm land of equal quality, and three
single farmers and one person from each of the remaining three families have signed
employment contracts with the new enterprises. The remaining six persons will be hired as
regular employees by the end of the year. An acceptable Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
has been prepared in full consultation with the concerned households (Annex10). Under
the plan, which was scheduled to be completed by the end of 1996, all of the families would
have higher incomes following resettlement. Implementation of the plan would be
monitored by the local Land Administration Department. Guidelines for resettlement are
outlined in Annex 8. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that should any additional
resettlement be unavoidable under the Project, Heilongfiang would ensure that such
resettlement would be carried out in accordance with a RAP approved by the Bank and
developed on the basis of policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and
design criteria acceptable to the Bank



- 32 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
4.1   The government of Heilongjiang would be responsible for overall project
implementation. The management structure would be similar to that used for other Bank
Group-financed provincial agricultural development projects in China, with Project Leading
Groups (PLGs) and Project Management Offices (PMOs) at the provincial, prefecture/
municipal and county levels.
4.2   Project Leading Groups (PLGs). Project Leading Groups are in place at all levels
and have played an active role in project preparation. The provincial PLG is headed by the
Vice-Governor responsible for agriculture, and includes representatives from the Planning
Commission, Finance, Livestock, Fisheries, Grain, TVE, State Asset Management and
Light Industry Bureaus, the Agriculture Commission, the Customs and Tax Departments,
the Reform Commission, the Agricultural Bank of China, and the All-China Women's
Federation. The main responsibilities of the provincial PLG are to formulate project plans
and policies, approve project feasibility studies, organize counterpart funds, and enlist
support of other relevant agencies. The provincial PLG would meet as needed to review
progress, coordinate the activities of other agencies, approve annual work programs and
budget, and provide guidance and supervision to the provincial PMO. It would also keep
the provincial government apprised of the overall progress of implementation. PLGs at
prefecture/municipal and county levels will have a similar structure and responsibilities.
4.3   Project Management Offices. A provincial PMO has been established at the
Provincial Planning Commission. The PMO would have overall responsibility for project
implementation under the guidance of the Provincial PLG. The PMO would (a) draw up
annual work programs and budgets; (b) review and approve lower level PMO work plans;
(c) undertake procurement for livestock and aquaculture and on behalf of the enterprises;
(d) prepare detailed project accounts; (e) organize training, technical assistance and project
supervision; (f) undertake project monitoring of physical and financial progress and
evaluations of project impact, and prepare progress reports; and (g) prepare withdrawal
applications and forward to the Bureau of Finance (BOF) for review and submission to the
Bank. At the prefecture/municipal and county levels, the PMOs established under the
Planning Commission would assist agencies and entities involved in implementing project
components and would liaise with the various technical and financial institutions that
support the project. Financial management of the project will be the responsibility of the
World Bank Division of the provincial BOF who will arrange for audits of the project
accounts.  Through its offices at lower levels, the BOF would authorize eligible
expenditures under the project and oversee and approve disbursement and recovery of
subloans. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the PMOs would be maintained



- 33 -
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank and staffed by competent staff in adequate
numbers. Assurances were also obtained that Heilongliang would send the Bank by
November 30 of each year annual work programs for the following year 's activities to be
carried out under the Project, including consolidated work programs for each of the
agroprocessing enterprises and thereafter implement such work programs as shall have
been approved by the Bank.
4.4   Technical Panel. A provincial technical panel has been established to make
recommendations on technical aspects to LGs and PMOs. The panel is composed of
scientists, technical specialists and engineers from cooperating research institutes and
technical bureaus including the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Bureaus, Northeast
Agricultural University, Heilongjiang International Engineering Consultants Company,
Harbin Institute of Light Industry and the Heilongjiang Commercial Institute. Their main
functions would be to review and advise on technical standards for engineering, livestock
breeding and forage production, training and technical assistance.
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
4.5   The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will make available the proceeds of the LIBOR-
based US dollar single currency IBRD loan to Heilongjiang Province on the same terms
(variable LIBOR-based interest, applicable commitment charges and 20-year maturity,
including a 5-year grace period). The provincial BOF would onlend through prefecture,
municipal and country finance bureaus to end-users on terms whereby the maturities would
be up to six years (including two years' grace) for livestock and aquaculture production
activities and up to nine years (including three years' grace) in the case of agroprocessing
subloans, with the BOF bearing the foreign exchange risk, except for dollar-denominated
subloans to agroprocessing enterprises, where the foreign exchange risk would be passed on
to the enterprise. The interest rate for Renminbi-denominated loans would be equal to the
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC) rate prevailing from time to time for loans of the same
maturity for similar investments. The interest rate of dollar-denominated loans would be
the standard variable rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, plus a spread
of 1.2 percent per year (to cover administrative and other costs) and applicable commitment
charges. Onlending to farmers and enterprises would be only for activities that have been
appraised and approved by the PMOs. At negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the
Borrower that the Loan would be made available to Heilongliang on the terms outlined
above and from the Heilongjiang Provincial Government that (a) loan proceeds used to
finance items for livestock and aquaculture would be repaid as described above, and
(b) agroprocessing subloans would be made on the terms described above in accordance
with procedures and on conditions acceptable to the Bank
4.6   Eligibility Criteria. The following criteria (summarized below and detailed in
were used, and would be used, in selecting enterprises for inclusion in the project:
(a)   Demonstrated commitment to the enterprise reform process by undertaking
a restructuring program in line with the objective of the reformn;



-34-
(b)   Separate legal identity, permission to borrow in its own name, and conduct
the activities proposed under the project;
(c)   Sound management structure and mandate;
(d)   Separate accounts and financial statements in the new form;
(e)   Satisfactory financial performance for at least the previous three years;
(f)    Been in existence and engaged in similar operations for not less than three
years.
4.7   The proposed investments were evaluated using the following criteria:
(a)   The proposal is an integral part of a practical business plan for the
enterprise, predicated on realistic market analysis and strategy;
(b)   The proposed technology, including product specifications and scale of
operations is consistent with current industry and market norms;
(c)   The proposed  investment is in  compliance  with  the Borrower's
environmental laws and regulations and has been developed in accordance
with an environmental impact assessment approved by the local
environmental protection bureau (EPB);
(d)   Adequate provision has been made for training and technical support at the
production and managerial levels;
(e)   Equity contribution to proposed investment costs of not less than 30 percent,
up to one half of which may be in the form of existing assets that are
essential to the investment; and
(f)    The proposal is financially viable.
4.8   Recovery of Project Investments. Heilongjiang Province will recover all funds
disbursed from the proceeds of the Loan, amounting to 50 percent of the project cost. The
participating county BOFs would be responsible for full recovery of the IBRD portion of
total project funding. Counties would repay municipalities/prefectures, which would repay
the province, which would in turn repay MOF for the use of the IBRD loan. Domestic
funds would be returned to the respective county BOFs. All investment costs would be
repaid by project participants. Heilongjiang will repay the cost of training, study tours, and
technical assistance extended to government implementing agencies (the studies on goose
breeding and meat processing, the grassland improvement research), the investment costs of
the provincial breeding center and seed processing units, and equipment for the PMOs.
Farmers will contribute 20 percent of the total cost of their investments and the remainder
will be recovered over six years, with two years of grace; enterprises will contribute 30
percent of the total cost of their investment, and the remainder will be recovered over nine



-35 -
years with three years of grace.  Cost recovery would begin in the third year of
implementation (starting in the second semester of 1999) and be completed in the eleventh
year (second semester of 2007).
C. MANAGEMENT OF PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES
4.9   Livestock Production and Aquaculture. The production of livestock and fish will
be undertaken by individual farm households except for fish-raising in Longhupao Lake,
which is managed as a collective. Planning, implementation and supervision of livestock
and aquaculture development would be the responsibility of the municipal, county and
township PMOs. The Animal Husbandry Bureau (AHB) and the Bureau of Aquatic
Products (BAP) would provide technical support. AHB would provide livestock extension,
veterinary and Al services and undertake training of project staff and farmers. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that Heilongliang would ensure that livestock
activities in the project are designed and implemented in accordance with farm models
acceptable to the Bank BAP would supervise the construction of fish ponds and arrange
the leasing of production ponds to individual households on the basis of a three-year
renewable contract. BAP would supply inputs and provide technical assistance and
training.
4.10  Agroprocessing. Each of the agroprocessing enterprises would be a commercial
entity under independent management. The enterprises would have a large measure of
managerial autonomy with professional management teams responsible for all aspects of
company operations.
D. PROJECT LAUNCH WORKSHOP
4.11  To initiate project implementation, Bank staff and local experts would conduct a
project launch workshop in Harbin at a date to be determined after project approval, for
staff of the PMOs at all levels. The purpose of the workshop would be to review the
program for implementation and to clarify tasks and responsibilities at each level. Topics
would include procurement and disbursement guidelines and procedures, financial
management, supervision, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, and other relevant subjects.
E. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING
4.12  The provincial, prefectural, municipal and county PMOs would monitor the
project's overall progress and impacts and evaluate the economic and financial benefits
from each component. The county PMOs would keep a current account of physical and
financial progress for each component. For the livestock and aquaculture components, the
PMOs would monitor input use and production costs, outputs, farm incomes and
employment generation. Each participating enterprise in the agroprocessing component has
its own implementation plan against which progress would be measured. Each enterprise
would submit a semiannual progress report to the county or municipal PMO. The report
would cover (a) enterprise reform including asset evaluation, drawing up of a new charter,
registration as a limited liability company, and appointment of boards of directors and



-36-
supervisors; (b) expenditures on civil works, plant and equipment, and staff training and
numbers trained; and (c) operations including employment generation, production and sales,
net profit, profit in relation to assets, and debt/equity ratio. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that Heilongliang would prepare andfurnish to the Bank semiannual progress
reports by January 31 and July 31 of each year
4.13 Environmental Management and Monitoring. All agroprocessing plants will be
required to satisfy the environmental management and monitoring requirements of the
relevant environmental protection bureau. All treatment facilities would meet Chinese
National Standards and be fully operational prior to each facility commencing trial
production. Individual enterprises would monitor and record air and waste water emissions
in accordance with the requirements of the relevant EPB. Routine checks and independent
monitoring of pollution control will be carried out by the local environmental monitoring
stations. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that each enterprise would do routine
monitoring of its air and wastewater emissions and include the results of this monitoring in
its periodic reporting to Heilongliang and the Bank.
4.14 Supervision and Mid-Term Review. A plan for Bank supervision is given in
Annex 9. The provincial PMO would undertake a mid-term review to assess progress and
chart remaining implementation and would also prepare an implementation completion
report for submission to the Bank no later than six months following the closing date. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that Heilongliang wouldfurnish the Bank with a
mid-term report by December 31, 1999.



-37-
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1   The major benefit of the project would be incremental livestock, fishery and
agroprocessing production, which would generate a net present value of incremental net
benefits of Y 1,236.8 million over the 15-year life of the project (at a 12 percent discount
rate). At full development, the annual incremental net value of production would be
Y 526.4 million, accruing from livestock production (45 percent), fisheries (4 percent) and
agroprocessing (51 percent). About 53,000 rural families would increase their farm
incomes with the addition of livestock activities, supported by introduction of the provincial
livestock management information system and the livestock and goose breed improvement
programs. About 19 small- to medium-size enterprises would provide additional processing
capacity for local crops and livestock, furthering the integration of producers and
processors. The project would allow existing enterprises to overcome the constraints of
outdated technology, poor management and outmoded operational mechanisms and would
ensure that new enterprises are established with corporate structures and operating
procedures consistent with the enterprise reform process now under way. In addition, the
project would create environmental benefits in agro-industries through the introduction of
improved waste minimization and waste treatment technology.
5.2   Production. Annual incremental production from the livestock activities at full
development would be 123,000 beef cattle, 108,000 fattened pigs, 5 million geese, and
99,000 tons of fresh milk. Additional production includes 8,800 tons of fish and 900 pairs
of breeding foxes. With the increased availability of animal manure, annual crop
production in participating households is estimated to increase by up to 5 percent,
amounting to total incremental production of 6,800 tons of corn, 800 tons of soybeans, and
500 tons of wheat.
5.3   The project would provide for establishment or improvement/expansion of 19
agroprocessing plants (9 for crops and 10 for livestock) to integrate production, processing
and marketing. Annual incremental production of main products would be 33,900 tons of
milk and meat products, 2,090 tons of fruit and bean products, 29,000 tons of seeds, 6,180
tons of vegetable oil, 76,900 tons of wheat flour and milled rice, and 42,000 tons of corn
starch products.
5.4   Employment and Incomes. Employment opportunities generated by the project
would help reduce seasonal unemployment and underemployment in and around the project
areas. The farmers' cropping cycle is short due to the severe and long winters in the project
area, leading to serious underemployment during the winter months when farming activities
are at a standstill. The expansion of livestock production would absorb surplus labor on the



- 38 -
beneficiaries' farms providing gainful employment virtually year-round for the beef, dairy
and pig-raising families. At full development, livestock activities would create an annual
incremental demand for 8.0 million days of farm family labor and 600,000 days of hired
labor. The resulting income generation has the added benefit of providing the incentive for
presently underemployed fann labor to remain in the countryside, rather than migrating to
urban areas where they would be exacerbating problems of inadequate infrastructure and
already overburdened social services. Average incomes of participants in the livestock
component would increase from about Y 1,465 per capita to about Y 2,680 per capita as a
result of the project. The agroprocessing component would generate additional demand for
skilled and semiskilled labor equivalent to about 2,860 permanent full-time jobs and 1,120
part-time jobs.
B. MARKETING
5.5   The market prospects for project production are favorable because domestic demand
for meat, poultry and aquatic products is increasing as a result of increasing per capita
incomes and increasing population. Moreover, the incremental amounts of project livestock
and livestock products are small, ranging from 1 to 10 percent of present provincial
production levels. Marketing studies were carried out by the Heilongjiang Commercial
College of the Ministry of Domestic Trade and the Harbin Institute of Technology School
of Management (Annex 9). The findings of the studies have identified and evaluated
existing and potential markets and competitors, assessed market demand, and determined
distribution channels and packaging requirements. Information gained from these studies
has contributed significantly in finalizing preparation of the agroprocessing proposals and
will be used by enterprise managers to develop their marketing strategies.
TABLE 5.1: PER CAPITA CONSUMPTION OF ANIMAL
PRODUCTS AND GOVERNMENT TARGETS
Product               1990      2000    2010
Beef                   1.0       n.a.     n.a.
Pork                  17.0      19.3    18.9
Poultry meat           2.2       4.8      5.9
Eggs                   6.2       7.4      9.3
Aquatic products       8.0       9.5    17.3
Cow's milk             4.0       7.3     9.3
Source: "China Animal Feed Sector Study," Report
No. 1 0922-CHA, June 24, 1993 based on data
supplied by MOA/State Statistical Bureau.



-39-
5.6   Pigs. China is the largest pig producing country in the world, with 415 million pigs
or 42 percent of the world stock (1994). Heilongjiang's contribution is small, with only
about 7.9 million pigs slaughtered annually, and the project's production would add only
about 108,000 pigs per year to this total. Farmers will sell at the local markets to traders for
slaughter and local use, to processors, or to other traders for resale outside the local area.
5.7   Most of China's pig production is consumed domestically, with current per capita
consumption at about 20 kg. Live pigs are exported, mostly to Hong Kong, under an export
quota allocated to the provinces-Heilongjiang seldom exports live pigs. In 1994, chilled
and frozen pork exports had risen to 101,000 tons, with Heilongjiang providing about 16
percent of this amount, mostly to Russia.
5.8   Beef Cattle. Government's policy is to encourage the development and expansion
of pasture-based beef production by providing access to grasslands (1 mu per animal),
subsidized breeding fees, and exemption from the local slaughter tax of Y 13 per head.
Because brewers' and distillers' taxes are reduced if their waste by-products are used for
cattle feed, farmers make extensive use of these materials as low-cost inputs, which give an
equivalent metabolic energy at about half the cost of corn. The project's incremental
production of about 123,000 head annually is equivalent to about 10 percent of the
provincial offtake in 1994, and existing market channels have the capacity to handle the
incremental production. Producers would sell to local traders for slaughter and local use,
directly to processors, or to other traders for resale outside the province.
5.9   Dairy cattle. Milk producers would supply milk in cans to village collection
centers for collection by the dairy processors who service allocated geographic regions.
While this practice could be construed as a geographic monopoly for processors and
limiting market choices for producers, it does allow farmers with small herds to participate
in a commercial distribution network and provides a reliable market for producers and a
reliable source of supply for processors. In 1993, the combination of higher input prices
and unchanged milk procurement prices led to a slight stagnation of production as farmers
reduced herd size and milk output. Producer milk prices increased in 1994 and now
production continues to rise. The introduction of pricing differentials provides an effective
incentive structure for improving milk quality at the producer level. Most farmers receive
an unregulated price of Y 1.5-1.8/kg for 3.4 and 3.5 percent butterfat, respectively.
5.10  The processing plants sell through their marketing representatives, who operate in
target markets, or ex-factory to traders and buyers. In the province, there are more than 170
factories, which in aggregate have adequate capacity for the project's incremental
production. The combination of increasing demand for milk-based products, particularly
ice cream and yogurt, and the relatively low profit from selling fresh milk provides an
incentive for dairies to focus on further processing to dry milk powder and most recently,
introducing UHT milk. The project will provide support to one processing activity for
restructuring production to include UHT milk.



-40-
5.11  Per capita milk consumption in China is relatively low at 4.8 kg per year (of this,
4.2 kg is cow milk), far below the world average of 48 kg. Urban consumption figures
for fresh dairy products are slightly higher at 5.3 kg (1994), reflecting increasing
consumption of ice cream and yogurt. The Government expects consumption to increase
to 7.3 kg per capita in 2000 and 9.30 kg in 2010, particularly in the nutrition-oriented
consumption of fresh and reconstituted milk for children; the urban market for milk-based
drinks, ice creams, and yogurt; and the baking and confectionery demand for butter and
cheese. Recent trade statistics show increasing imports of both dry-milk products and
UHT milk and decreases of exported fluid milk; these trends are expected to continue as
domestic demand rises.
5.12  Geese. Producers would operate as grow-out contractors to processing enterprises,
thus ensuring a reliable market for their production. Processing in the province has been a
constraint in the past, and the project would provide expansion and/or rehabilitation of
seven processing operations. The plants would slaughter and process the geese and treat the
feathers to varying degrees. Output would be in the form of whole geese, cut parts and
deboned meat, all of which would be vacuum packed in plastic and frozen. From the
factory, the geese are sold through several channels, including to traders ex-factory, under
contract to large-scale distributors or institutional consumers, or through marketing agents
operating in target markets. To encourage production, the province has waived a trading/
sales tax of Y 1 per head.
5.13  China's goose production has grown by about 10 percent annually since 1990, in
response to increased demand for meat and down feathers. Consumption of the meat is
increasing with rising urban incomes and increasing demand for a wider range of meats and
poultry. Goose is particularly popular in some of the large coastal cities, such as Shanghai,
and in the southern provinces, generally through the restaurant trade. There are eight goose
feather processing facilities in the project area and a number of factories produce finished
product. In addition to the domestic market, the province also exports finished products,
principally to the United States, Russia and Hong Kong.
C. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
5.14  Financial Analysis. Financial analysis has been carried out separately for the
livestock, aquaculture and agroprocessing components of the project. Since the livestock
production is intended to supplement earnings from crop production and to take advantage
of farm production of crops and by-products, a base case farm model was developed for an
average 1.6 ha of cropped area (1.0 ha of maize, 0.4 ha of soybean, and 0.2 ha of wheat).
Farm labor availability is estimated at 500 person-days per family, of which about 200 are
used for crop production. The addition of a livestock activity to the farm raises crop yields
by up to 5 percent through the introduction of additional manure to the farming system,
reduces the requirement for chemical fertilizers and requires an additional 5 days of labor/ha
for spreading manure. Separate models have been developed for pig breeding operations,
10- and 20-head pig production units, 10- and 20-head cattle fattening units, 2- and 4-cow
dairy farms, goose crossbreeders, 100- and 200-head goose production units, and a nucleus



-41-
fox breeding farm. Livestock models used for financial analysis show positive cash flows
and acceptable financial rates of return (FRRs) for all types of livestock, ranging from 27 to
43 percent, except for geese; goose fattening, with an FRR of 65 percent, is a low-input
activity, based on grazing of summer pasture, minimal purchased feed, and farm labor (not
costed), and yields full benefits during the first year. Aquaculture gives an FRR of 33
percent. In the analysis of the agroprocessing plants, value added tax and incomes taxes at a
rate of 33 percent of net profits have been included, and individual FRRs range from 17 to
38 percent. Sensitivity analyses have been carried out for all components to evaluate the
effect on the project of changes in major variables such as price, investment and operating
costs. They indicate the FRRs of the livestock and aquaculture components are relatively
robust to changes in revenues and operating costs. Among the agroprocessing subprojects,
the FRRs for wheat processing and the pig and beef abattoirs show some sensitivity to
changes in revenues; this sensitivity is a normal phenomenon in the meat industry.
5.15  Economic Analysis. Economic analyses have been carried out for the individual
components and for the project as a whole, using constant 1996 border prices. World Bank
price projections or average export and import prices actually realized by China were used
to estimate farm-gate economic prices in 1996 constant terms for traded inputs and outputs.
All investment costs, including physical contingencies, have been taken into account in
estimating the economic cost of the project. For nontraded goods, the local market price
was used as the economic price. While most project analysis in China values rural
unskilled labor at the prevailing market wage, this analysis uses the nominal wage in project
areas adjusted by a conversion factor of 0.90. This shadow wage reflects the fact that
Heilongjiang continues to face significant distortions in its internal labor market, as it has
not benefited from the loosening of rural-urban migration, the rapid growth of rural nonstate
enterprises, and the consequent greater labor mobility found in the more developed labor
markets of southern and eastern China. As a result, except for the peak seasons of planting
and harvesting, there is a surplus of agricultural workers with little alternative employment
opportunities, leading to a marginal value product of labor below market wages during the
off-season when many project activities are implemented. All economic values were
converted to local currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of Y 8.3/$1.0. Based on
the above assumptions, the economic rates of return (ERRs) are 30 percent for livestock, 44
percent for aquaculture, 36 percent for agroprocessing, and 33 percent for the total project.
Sensitivity analyses have been carried out for all components to evaluate the effect of
changes in the economic variables such as price, investment and operating cost. This
indicates that the ERRs of all components are relatively robust to changes in revenues and
operating costs.
D. RISKS
5.16  Projects risks have been identified and measures incorporated in the project to
minimize their effect. The risk that enterprise reform will not be carried out has been
reduced by selection of enterprises that already have begun corporate restructuring. The
risk that counterpart funds will not be provided in a timely manner has been addressed by
discussion and confirmation of the financing plans of individual enterprises and livestock



-42-
production units. Experience shows, however, that this risk remains, for any given project
in China. The potential marketing risk for agroprocessing and livestock products would be
minimized by provision of improved processing technology and packaging, and the
development of market strategies for each product during project preparation, as well as
provision for training enterprise marketing and sales staff during implementation. There is
minimal technical risk in the livestock production activities, as both the animal husbandry
agencies and numerous farmers in the province have wide experience and knowledge in
livestock raising, which will be reinforced by provision of training during implementation.



-43 -
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1   The following agreements were obtained at negotiations:
(a)   the price of semen produced at the Animal Breeding Center would be
increased by June 30, 2000 and adjusted periodically thereafter to achieve
full recovery of its cost of production. To this end, Heilongjiang would
furnish the proposed price to the Bank by January 1, 2000 for comment
(para. 3.16);
(b)   at least 80 percent of the trainees in the livestock training program should be
female (para. 3.19) and at least 30 percent of the trainees in the aquaculture
training program would be females (para. 3.20);
(c)   Heilongjiang would furnish to the Bank by November 30 of each year, a
proposed program of training activities to be carried out in the following
calendar year and thereafter, implement such program as approved by the
Bank (para. 3.22);
(d)   Heilongjiang would employ consultants not later than December 31, 1997,
to undertake a study of the environmental and public health problems in the
livestock processing sector in the province and a goose breeding study
(para. 3.21) and the findings of the studies and a plan for implementation of
the recommendations would be submitted by December 31, 1998 for Bank
review and thereafter implemented (para. 3.42);
(e)   Heilongjiang would engage the services of independent pollution control
experts acceptable to the Bank to review final detailed designs of
agroprocessing subprojects (para. 3.41);
(f)   Heilongjiang would ensure that any persons who are involuntarily resettled
would be resettled in accordance with a RAP developed on the basis of
policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria
acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.43);
(g)   the PMOs would be maintained with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank and staffed by competent staff in adequate numbers (para. 4.3);
(h)   Heilongjiang would furnish to the Bank by November 30 of each year, a
proposed program of activities to be carried out under the project in the
following calendar year and thereafter, implement such program as
approved by the Bank (para. 4.3);



-44-
(i)   items for livestock and aquaculture, and agroprocessing subloans would be
made available in accordance with procedures, terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.5);
(j)   livestock activities in the project would be designed and implemented in
accordance with farm models acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.9);
(k)   Heilongjiang would prepare and furnish to the Bank semiannual progress
reports by January 31 and July 31 of each year (para. 4.12);
(1)   each enterprise would do routine monitoring of its air and wastewater
emissions and include the results of this monitoring in its periodic reports to
Heilongjiang and the Bank (para. 4.13); and
(m)   Heilongjiang would furnish the Bank with a mid-term  report by
December 31, 1999 (para. 4.14).
6.2   Subject to the above, the proposed project would be suitable for a loan of $120
million for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest rate for
LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, to the People's Republic of China.



- 45 -                        ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: KEY STATISTICS OF THE PROJECT AREA
Heilongjiang       Project
Unit        Province (a)     Counties (b)
Total Population                            '000             36,400           16,600
Rural population                        '000              18,480          12,520
Rural labor force                       '000               4,702           2,850
Rural households                        '000               4,195           2,750
Prefecture cities                        No.                 14                2
Cities and counties                      No.                 68               32
Villages                                 No.              14,420           7,640
Land area                                  '000 ha           45,460           14,040
Cultivated area                        '000 ha             8,908           6,020
Sown area                              '000 ha             8,662           4,594
Total GNP (c)                              billion Y            162
Industrial output                      billion Y             76
Agricultural output                    billion Y             32               24
Crop production
Grain area                             '000 ha             7,496           3,839
Grain production                       '000 mt            25,787          15,100
Paddy area                             '000 ha              747              341
Paddy production                       '000 mt             4,104           2,078
Corn area                              '000 ha             1,964           1,309
Corn production                        '000 mt             1,146           8,780
Wheat area (b)                         '000 ha             1,118             845
Wheat production (b)                   '000 mt             3,115           2,925
Soybean area                           '000 ha             2,789           1,277
Soybean production                     '000 mt             5,130           2,754
Livestock production
Pigs slaughtered                      '000 head           7,887            6,978
Pork                                   '000 mt              656              515
Cattle slaughtered                    '000 head            1,134             867
Milk production                        '000 mt             1,435           1,124
Beef production                       '000 head             180              142
Chicken, geese, ducks slaughtered     '000 birds         126,922          92,064
Poultry production                     '000 Mt              214              168
Per capita income (b)                       yuan              1,975
Urban per capita income                 yuan                               2,065
Rural per capita income                 yuan                               1,650
(a) 1995 Agricultural Yearbook
(b) Project Documents
(c) 1995 Provincial Statistical Yearbook



- 46 -                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: SUMMARY OF AGROPROCESSING
1.    The agroprocessing component includes 19 subprojects, of which 12 are
improvement or expansion of existing enterprises and 7' are new enterprises. The
selected enterprises are a mix of TVEs, collectives and privately owned enterprises2 all of
which are planning or undergoing reform.
2.    The following criteria have been used in selecting enterprises for inclusion in the
project and would be used if additional enterprises are to be included in the project:
(a)   Demonstrated  commitment to  the  enterprise  reform  process  by
undertaking changes in corporate structure, management, social burden
arrangements, or other structural or operating changes that are in line with
the objective of the reform;
(b)   Separate legal identity, with articles or a charter which explicitly permit it
to borrow in its own name, and conduct the activities proposed under the
project;
(c)   Sound management structure and mandate. The sub-borrower's managers
must have clear operating autonomy, and there should be a regular
mechanism such as budget reviews or annual meetings where supervising
entities make their views known;
(d)   Separate accounts and financial statements in the new form;
(e)   Satisfactory financial performance for at least the previous three years, or
satisfactory explanations which do not impinge on the capacity of the
enterprise to successfully implement the proposed investment. In the case
of new enterprises, this criteria was applied to the sponsors;
(f)    Been in existence and engaged in similar operations for not less than three
years.  Where a new activity is proposed, there will be a binding
agreement with a source of the required expertise.
3.    Concerning the proposed investments, the following evaluation criteria were used:
'New enterprises are Tailai Mungbean, Bayan Corn Processing, Lanxi Flax, Qiqihar Seabuckthorn,
Shuangcheng Corn Processing, Hulan Pig and Binxian Beef.
2 Privately owned enterprises are Binxian Beef and Anda Dairy



- 47 -                     ANNEX2
(a)   The proposal is an integral part of a practical business plan for the
enterprise, predicated on realistic market analysis and strategy;
(b)   The proposed technology, including product specifications and scale of
operations is consistent with current industry and market norms;
(c)   The proposed investment is in compliance with the Borrower's
environmental laws and regulations and has been developed in accordance
with an EIA approved by the local EPB;
(d)   Adequate provision has been made for training and technical support at the
production and managerial levels;
(e)   Equity contribution to proposed investment costs of not less than 30
percent, up to one half of which may be in the form of existing assets that
are essential to the investment;
(f)   The proposal is financially viable.
4.    The following principles would guide implementation of the project:
(a)   Agroprocessing companies would be encouraged to solicit share
contributions from farmer producers supplying raw materials to their
enterprises;
(b)   Once established, the project enterprises would not undertake expansion
until the project loans have been repaid;
(c)   Auditing of project enterprises would be carried out annually by an
independent commercial auditing company;
(d)   Any proposed use of patented or legally protected technology is consistent
with its legal rights and obligations with respect to such technology.
Zhaozhou Corn Processing
5.    The original starch factory, a collective owned by the county, was built in 1968
and has been modernized and expanded several times. The plant processes about 19,000
tons of corn per year into 12,000 tons of corn starch and also produces about 1,000 tons
of sodium glutamate. It will produce raw material for a new enterprise which would be
established as a limited liability company with ownership shared by the Zhaozhou Starch
Factory (35 percent), the Zhaozhou Fireworks Factory (30 percent), the Zhaozhou
Alcohol Factory (17 percent) and other shareholders (18 percent). Other shareholders
comprise staff and surrounding villages, e.g., Feng Yun village has designated Y 5
million for shares from its Y 20 million of land use fees from the Daqing Oil Field.



- 48 -                    ANNEX2
6.    Under the project, the new enterprise would be provided with three new
processing lines to further process 19,000 tons of corn starch per year into 10,000 tons of
crystalline glucose, 6,000 tons of biodegradable polymers, 2,800 tons of whole-sugar
powder, and 500 tons of acetyl propionic acid. Production of crystalline glucose was
expanded from an earlier proposal on the basis of the market studies which indicated a
good market for this product. Crystalline glucose would be manufactured to WHO
standards and would be sold on the domestic market for use in the pharmaceutical
industry. Biodegradable polymers would be used for fast food packaging and for plastic
film in agriculture. Acetyl propionic acid will be used as a solvent and antioxidant in the
pharmaceutical, agrochemical and paint industries.
7.    The project will finance construction of about 10,900 m2 of buildings for
workshops, stores and utilities, a waste water treatment system, processing equipment
and vehicles. The estimated investment cost is Y 120.6 million (excluding incremental
working capital).
Tailai Mung Bean Processing
8.    This new factory will be established in Daqing town to produce 1,000 tons/year of
soluble mung bean powder as an instant beverage. A Limited Liability Company will be
established with ownership shared by Xinde Construction Company (39 percent), six
townships (52 percent), and individual shareholders (9 percent). The process, which will
utilize about 600 tons of dried mung beans/year, involves grinding the beans to which
sugar is added, and homogenized and spray-dried using a technology developed at Jilin
University. Market surveys indicate a strong demand for the product that would be
mainly sold in large cities in southern China. The project will finance about 2,000 m of
factory buildings, processing equipment, electrical, water and steam supply and
distribution systems, air conditioning and laboratory equipment, vehicles and market
development. The estimated investment cost is estimated to be Y 12.8 million (excluding
initial working capital).
Nehe Songnen Wheat Flour Processing Company
9.    The existing wheat mill (Nehe No. 3 Grain Store) is an SOE under the Nehe City
Grain Bureau and was set up in 1971. Profitability has declined in recent years due to old
equipment and outdated technology. The existing machinery and equipment will be
replaced and an additional 8,700 m of workshops and warehousing will be built. Under
the project, a limited liability company would be established with ownership divided
between the existing No. 3 Grain Store (19 percent), the Nehe Feed Mill (24 percent), the
Nehe Oil Plant (26 percent), and staff (7 percent).
10.   The mill will process 50,000 tons of wheat per year (200 tons/day in 3 shifts) and
produce 36,000 tons of flour. The mill will be equipped with a gluten separation line to
produce high and low gluten flour (17,500 tons) in addition to standard and special
grades. There is an increasing demand in China for specialized wheat flour for bread
making (high gluten), and for cakes and biscuits (low gluten). China currently imports



-49 -                     ANNEX2
20,000 tons/year of high gluten flour. A market survey conducted in Heilongjiang
indicates the demand for high and low gluten flour in the province is about 30,000 tons
per year, all of which is brought in from other provinces. The total investment cost is
estimated at Y 121.0 million (excluding incremental working capital).
Bayan Corn Product Company
11.   This is a new enterprise, established as a limited liability company, owned by the
Bayan Granulated Feedstuff Company (36 percent), the Xingjiang Oil Company
(32 percent), and the Bingguo Beer Company (32 percent). Xingjiang Oil Company is
one of the 500 largest enterprises in the country, and the other two are considered
advanced enterprises of Xiji township, where the new enterprise will be located. Bayan
county is one of the main corn producing areas in Heilongjiang, averaging 650,000 tons
per year, of which some 300,000 tons are marketed.
12.   The project would finance construction of about 6,000 m of workshops, offices
and stores, processing equipment, waste water treatment facilities, miscellaneous
equipment and vehicles, and technical advisory services. The feasibility study was
prepared by the Heilongjiang Chemical Engineering Design Institute.
13.   The plant will process 18,000 tons of starch slurry per year and produce 6,000
tons of modified starch products. All products would be sold in the domestic market
where the main consumers would be the food, textile and pharmaceutical industries. The
total investment cost is estimated at Y 41.8 million (excluding initial working capital).
Lanxi County Oil Limited Corporation
14.   Under the project an existing linseed and soybean processing enterprise in Lanxi
would be expanded. Established as a state run enterprise in 1956, the plant was
modernized in 1993 and has now converted to a limited liability company with
participation of private investors. At present the plant processes about 6,000 tons/year of
linseed and 25,000 tons/year of soybean to produce semicrude vegetable oils.
15.   A new processing line will be added to refine the semicrude soybean and further
process this into epoxy oil. The new line will have an annual output of 3,200 tons of
refined soybean oil and 2,000 tons of soybean epoxy oil. There is a strong domestic
demand for epoxy oil which is used mainly in the manufacture of polyvinylchloride
plastic (PVC), and also in the production of copper foil laminates used in the electronics
industry as a cheaper alternative to tung oil.
16.   The project will finance some 4,100 m2 of additional factory buildings, processing
equipment and vehicles. The existing waste water treatment system will be expanded and
improved. The total estimated investment cost is Y 22.8 million (excluding incremental
working capital).



- 50 -                    ANNEX2
Lanxi Linseed Limited Liability Company
17.   Lanxi County is one of the main flax producing areas in China, with a cropped
area of 16,600 ha (18 percent of all China) and has one of the largest flax fiber processing
and spinning plants in the country. The Lanxi County Flax Seed Company, which has
operated for more than 20 years as a county SOE, processes about 2,000 tons of seed per
year. About 5,000 small farmers who are contract seed growers supply this plant. The
present plant is completely run down, unable to meet the standard needed to produce high
quality seed, and will be shut down. In preparation for the project, a new enterprise has
been set up as a limited liability company with the participation of the original company
(35 percent), the Lanxi Raw Material Company (15 percent), Lanxi Research Institute
(20 percent), Lanxi Flax Development Company (10 percent) and staff (20 percent).
Additional shares will be offered to flax farmers and staff of the owner enterprises.
18.   The project would finance construction of 2,700 m2 of new processing plant
including a seed processing workshops, storage buildings for raw material and processed
seeds, and a sun drying floor. Seed processing equipment would be provided with a
capacity of 2.5 ton/hour including seed cleaners, graders, sorters, and weighing and
packing machines, which would be supplied as an integrated processing line. Seed
laboratory and office equipment and vehicles would also be provided. The investment
would also include 6 tractors with cultivation and seeding implements that the enterprise
would operate to provide mechanized land preparation and seed sowing to contract seed
growers. The seed production base will be expanded to produce 5,000 tons/year of a high
yielding flax variety developed by the Heilongjiang Flax Research Institute, which was
released 3 years ago. The new variety is resistant to lodging and disease with 5 percent
higher fiber content and 20 percent higher seed yield. The bulk of the seed will be
marketed in the province, which accounts for 90 percent of the flax cropped area in
China. The total investment cost is estimated to be Y 9.4 million (excluding initial
working capital).
Qiqihar Seabuckthorn Processing
19.   This will be a new enterprise to be established as a limited liability company with
shareholders being the Qiqihar Fulong Chemical Industry Company, the Qiqihar
Horticultural Research Institute and local farmers. At the time of appraisal, the two main
partners had completed land acquisition for the new project, prepared draft Articles and
selected a board of directors. The new company would be registered in parallel with
initiation of the project. The factory will process the fruit of seabuckthorn (Hippophae
rhamnoides) a native shrub of northern China grown mostly for protection of degraded
lands. The fruit is rich in vitamins, and both juice and oil extract are valued for their
health and medicinal properties. There is a strong demand for these products in China
and a large potential export market in Japan and the CIS.  About 1,000 ha of
seabuckthorn are grown in the area at present but with the project the company will invest
in a seedling nursery that will provide planting material of recently introduced high-
yielding varieties and allow expansion of the planted area by 3,000 to 4,000 ha over a 3



- 51-                      ANNEX2
year period. At full development, the plant will process about 6,300 tons of fruit per year
and produce about 1,000 tons of concentrated juice and 49 tons of oil. The juice will be
extracted from the fruit, clarified, concentrated to 40-45 degree brix and packed into 200
liter drums. Part of the oil will be recovered through batch solvent extraction of the seeds
(1.5 to 2.0 tons per day), and part will be separated from the juice by high speed
centrifugal separators.
20.   The project will finance about 2,400 m2 of buildings for processing, storage,
offices and utilities. Equipment will include processing, laboratory and office equipment,
and vehicles. The investment will also include a waste water treatment system and a
seabuckthorn seedling nursery. The feasibility study has been prepared by the Xian
Science Research and Design Academy under the Ministry of Domestic Trade. The total
investment cost is estimated at Y 44.7 million (excluding initial working capital).
Shuangcheng Hengda Company Limited (Corn Processing)
21.   This is a new enterprise which has been established as a limited liability company
with shareholders being Shuangcheng Hengda Industries Company (28 percent),
Henglida Biochemical Company (59 percent), and staff and management (13 percent).
The factory will be located adjacent to an existing corn starch plant that would supply the
raw material.
22.   The new enterprise would wet-mill about 40,300 tons per year of starch slurry
(70 percent water), and produce about 14,300 tons of sorbitol (70 percent) and 2,400 tons
of molasses. Sorbitol will be sold on the domestic market mainly for the production of
vitamin C and toothpaste. China currently produces about 70,000 tons of sorbitol per
year and imports a similar amount. The technical design and the feasibility report has
been prepared by Heilongjiang Chemical Engineering Design and Planning Institute. The
project will finance the construction of about 11,500 m2 of buildings for the processing
workshop, warehouse and utilities. The investment would include processing equipment,
a waste water treatment system, vehicles, training, and incremental working capital. The
total investment is estimated at Y 129.3 million (excluding initial working capital).
Suihua City Rice Comprehensive Processing Company
23.   The existing rice mill was established in 1951, and the company at present has six
subsidiaries (grain trading and processing). The plant processes some 30,000 tons of
paddy into low quality rice per year. The rice milling plant is operating below nominal
capacity due to better profitability in the trading operation and limited availability of
working capital. To implement the project, a new limited liability company would be
established with ownership divided between the Suihua Rice Processing Plant
(70.1 percent), staff and workers (7.5 percent), and local rice farmers (22.4 percent). It is
expected that 10,000 families in the county will be involved, each contributing as their
share 350 kg of rice valued at Y 585.



- 52 -                    ANNEX2
24.   The existing rice mill will be expanded to process 60,000 tons of paddy to
produce 23,300 tons of high quality rice, 17,500 tons of rinse-free rice, 940 tons of rice
bran oil and some 17,100 tons of by-products. Improved technology, most likely
imported, will be introduced for cleaning, selecting and polishing. The processing plant
will also have a sophisticated grading system based on the color of the rice.
25.   The project will finance the main processing building and additional workshops
2
with a total floor area of about 5,100 m . The plant will have a modem packing line with
the manufacturing of plastic bags for 2.5 kg packages. The wash-free rice will be packed
with nitrogen in order to avoid oxidation. High quality rice will also be packed in 25 kg
sacks. Provision has been made for technical assistance and training for key plant
operators during commissioning and start-up. The total investment cost is estimated at
Y 75.5 million (excluding incremental working capital).
Geese Processing
26.   Seven geese processing plants in the counties of Zhaozhou, Zhaoyuan, Yian,
Nehe, Wangkui, Bayan and Zhaodong will undergo modernization and expansion. The
condition of the existing plants varies, but buildings are generally dilapidated and the
equipment is old, inadequate, and subject to frequent breakdown. Output varies from
about 70,000 to 500,000 processed geese per year. The size of the investment in each
enterprise would vary. The project will finance construction of new buildings for
slaughter lines, cold storage and down processing, offices and utilities. Equipment would
include complete slaughter, packaging and feather processing systems, refrigeration,
water, electrical and heating systems, and office equipment. A waste treatment system
will be provided. Transport would include utility vehicles and insulated trucks.
27.   Operation of the processing plants will be closely integrated with geese fattening,
which is also supported under the project. With the exception of Nehe, which will have
the capacity to process 1 million geese/year, each facility will have a design capacity of
500,000 geese/year. Output will include whole geese, cut parts and deboned meat, all
vacuum packed in plastic and frozen, and goose down with a total annual output of about
12,000 tons of meat products and about 100 tons of down. The Yian plant will be
upgraded to meet international USDA standards and will pilot the sale of geese for export
to the south east Asian market. The total investment cost is estimated at Y 123.8 million
(excluding incremental working capital).
28.   Zhaozhou Goose Processing. Two existing enterprises, the Zhaozhou Cold
Store and the Zhaozhou Feather Factory, will merge to form the Zhaozhou County
Animal Husbandry Products Development Limited Liability Company. The Zhaozhou
Cold Store is a county-owned TVE established in September 1993. Its main business is
purchase, processing and sales of animal products; currently its main production is geese
and pigs. The Zhaozhou Feather Factory was set up in September 1995 to trade in
feathers and down. It buys ungraded feathers from the cold store and other sources
within and outside the county, sells the feathers locally for other production, and exports



- 53 -                    ANNEX2
the down. The two enterprises currently operate with separate accounts, but these will be
combined next year when the revaluation is completed and the old companies will cease
operation as independent entities. The new company has already been established on
paper as of September 1996, and the assets of the cold store have been transferred to start
the new company. The total investment cost is estimated at Y 20.6 million (excluding
incremental working capital).
29.   Zhaoyuan Goose Processing-Daqing Swan Limited Liability Co. A new
enterprise is being established for the project. The two sponsors, the Daqing City Canned
Food Factory and the Zhaoyuan Heath Food Factory, will contribute funds for the new
company, and both will continue operations. Daqing City Canned Food Factory is a
state-owned enterprise of Zhaoyuan County. It was originally established in 1956 as the
Heilongjiang Zhaoyuan Can Factory and its products were mainly exported. In 1992, it
was renamed as the Daqing City Canned Food Factory and currently operates under that
name. The Zhaoyuan Health Food Factory was established in 1988 as a collective under
the Rural Industry Bureau. The new enterprise planned to register in December 1996
after asset revaluation of the existing companies. It will have paid-in capital of Y 4.17
million from the following sources: Daqing Canned Food (50 percent); Zhaoyuan Health
Food (30 percent); and employee shareholders (20 percent). The total investment cost is
estimated to be Y 18.3 million (excluding incremental working capital).
30.   Yian Goose Processing. Qiqihar Swan Food Group, the sponsor, is a group
company with wholly owned subsidiaries (meat processing, feather processing, food
processing, cold store and hatchery) and parts of three other independent legal entities (a
biological medicine plant, a chemical plant, and a department store). These were all
combined into the Qiqihar Swan Food Group as a limited liability company, registered in
January 1996 with paid-in capital of Y 7.38 million of which Y 7.3 million represented
the state share and Y 0.08 million as employee's share. The Group plans to become a
shareholding company and has obtained the approval of the System Reform Commission
to do so. The total investment cost is estimated to be Y 15.2 million (excluding
incremental working capital).
31.   Nehe Goose Processing. The Nehe Food Group Corporation spun off parts of
three subsidiaries (an existing meat company, a can factory, and a food factory) to
establish the Nehe City Meat Packing Fowl and Feather Company Ltd., with registered
capital of Y 3.74 million. Ownership of the company is divided between the Nehe Food
Group Corporation (44 percent) and staff and other investors (56 percent). The total
investment cost is estimated to be Y 19.6 million (excluding incremental working
capital).
32.   Wangkui Goose Processing. Wangkui is a collective enterprise established in
1989 under the county government and operated as part of the County Supply and
Marketing Company. There are no subsidiaries. Its main business is processing of geese
and down and manufacture of clothing. Under the project, the enterprise would change
its ownership structure to a limited liability company in line with the provincial



- 54 -                    ANNEX2
government's enterprise reform program. The total investment cost is estimated to be
Y 9.7 million (excluding incremental working capital).
33.   Bayan County Poultry.  The Bayan Poultry Company Limited Liability
Company was set up in 1994 from the Livestock Processing Company originally
established in 1988. The factory will stop operation as soon as construction starts, as the
old site will be cleared for the new facility. Equipment is outdated and most of the fixed
assets are in the cold store, which will be kept. Current ownership is divided between the
township government (49.6 percent) and staff and investors (50.4 percent). Ownership
will be further diversified under the project by offering shares to goose farmers and down
dealers.  The total investment cost is estimated to be Y 21.2 million (excluding
incremental working capital).
34.   Zhaodong Goose Processing-Zhaodong Silver Goose Limited Liability
Company. The Changwu Cold Store and the Feather Factory joined forces in 1995 to set
up a new company, the Zhaodong Silver Goose Limited Liability Company, with a paid
in capital of Y 3.549 million. Ownership is divided as follows: Cold Store (26 percent),
Down factory (67 percent), and staff shares ( 7 percent). Further diversification will take
place under the project with the sale of shares to goose farmers and staff. The total
investment cost is estimated to be Y 19.2 million (excluding incremental working
capital).
Anda Milk Processing Plant
35.   The Hong Xin Group was established in 1995 as a privately owned group held by
four individuals. The Anda Dairy, the core enterprise in the group, had been established
in 1956 (one of 156 projects set up with Russian assistance). Over the course of some
years, Anda Dairy helped to set up dairy plants in Albania and Viet Nam, and trained
5,600 technicians for the dairy industry in China. Starting in 1984, with the competition
of more dairies in China and also imported products, the plant began to have financial
difficulties. By 1993, the plant was nearly bankrupt, and Anda City decided to lease the
plant to the manager, Mr. Huang Zeng Li. In October 1995, after revaluation of the
assets, the ownership was transferred to Mr. Huang. The staff of the company was
reduced from 1,100 to 548-200 people resigned and 300 retired people were removed
from the payroll and shifted to the provincial pension program. Under his ownership,
production and profitability have been restored to the dairy.
36.   Anda is located in the main milk producing region of the province. The plant
maintains it's own milk collection stations equipped with cooling tanks and a fleet of
milk trucks, and collects up to 100,000 liters of fresh milk per day during the peak
season. The plant receives about 23,000 tons of milk per year, most of which is
processed into full cream milk powder with 20 percent sugar added.
37.   The project will finance a new processing line for ultra heat treated (UHT) milk
with a capacity of 6,000 tons/year. The main market for UHT milk will be the urban
areas in the coastal region of southern China where there is an increasing demand for



- 55 -                    ANNEX2
liquid milk. The plant will be extended by construction of 2,700 m2 of buildings for a
workshop and warehouse at the existing site. The investment will include processing
equipment, including a sterilizer and plastic bottling machine to be supplied as an
integrated package, and vehicles. The existing waste water treatment system will be
expanded and improved. The total investment cost is estimated at Y 60.4 million
(excluding incremental working capital).
Hulan Pig Abattoir and Meat Processing Plant
38.   The Kangjian Food Station, a state-owned enterprise, has been transformed to the
Kangjian Limited Liability Co. with registered capital of Y 720,000 and licensed in
February 1996. The company has held two meetings of shareholders (of which there are
six). When the project is constructed, the books of the old Company would be closed out
and the accounts taken over by the new company. The new shareholding company would
expand its operation under the project and have a ownership distribution including
Kangjian Food Co. (86 percent), staff and workers (12.3 percent), and other investors
(traders) (1.7 percent).
39.   The existing small abattoir is run down and will be replaced with a new
slaughterhouse with a capacity of 200,000 pigs per year and a 500 ton cold store. The
new facility will be built and equipped to international standards. Buildings covering
some 4,500 m would be constructed for the slaughterhouse, meat processing area, cold
store and utility rooms, and a comprehensive waste treatment system would be installed.
Equipment would include a complete mechanized slaughter line, processing, packaging
and freezing equipment, air-conditioning and office equipment, electrical, water and
steam supply and distribution systems. Refrigerated trucks and other small vehicles, and
working capital would also be provided. The enterprise will market a range of meat
products totaling about 10,250 tons per year, including whole carcasses, sausages and
pasteurized sandwich ham, catering to increasingly sophisticated urban consumers in
China. Export markets in southeast Asia and the CIS would also be targeted. The total
investment cost is estimated at Y 35.1 million (excluding incremental working capital).
Binxian County Cattle Abattoir
40.   The sponsor, Harbin Chang An Group Company, is a privately held group with all
shares owned by individuals. There are 14 member companies in the group-the group
owns all or part of the member companies and reports paid in capital of Y 48.67 million,
of which Y 38.6 million represents the Group's ownership. About half of these members
companies were established or acquired in 1996. The largest of the enterprises is the An
Te Furniture Company with paid in capital of Y 13.87 million-it is a joint venture with
a Japanese partner (25 percent). The main business of the group is wood products-
furniture, chopsticks-the foreign partner does not take dividends, but buys the product.
Profits have been used for technical reform of the chopstick factory, which the owners
claim is the largest in the world. One member of the group, the Xin Bin Industry Co.



- 56 -                    ANNEX2
Ltd., would be expanded under the project from its present rendering facility to allow
slaughter of beef. This company represents 36 percent of Chang An Group's assets.
41.   A new cattle slaughterhouse and meat processing facility will be established some
36 kilometers from Harbin. The enterprise will be a shareholding company in which the
privately owned Qong An Enterprise Company, established in 1982, will be the major
shareholder. The plant will have a capacity of 30,000 beef cattle per year and will be able
to process up to 200 cattle per day during the peak season. The enterprise would produce
about 5,000 tons of meat per year. About 4,500 m2 of buildings would be constructed for
the slaughterhouse, cold stores, pump house and office. The project would finance a
mechanized slaughter line, processing and cold storage equipment, and four refrigerated
trucks. A comprehensive waste water treatment system and working capital would also
be provided. The total investment cost is estimated at Y 49.0 million (excluding initial
working capital).



- 57  -                                                ANNEX  3
Table 1
China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Project Cost Summary by Expenditure
(Yuan '000)                                            (USS '000)
%       % Total                                        %       % Total
Foreign     Base                                       Foreign     Bass
Local     Foreign     Total    Exchange   Cosh         Local      Foreign     Total   Exchange   Costs
t. Investinent Costs
A. Land Acquisition                       14,037.8       0.0    14,037.8         0          1     1,691.3         0.0    1,691.3         0         1
B. Works
1. Building                            182,876.3  146,135.1   329,011.4       44         17    20,046.2   16,019.0  36,065.2          44        17
2. Environmental Protection Works        6,986.2    5,274.3    12,260.5       43          1       765.2       577.7    1,342.9        43         1
3. Other Works                          32,912.7   12,059.7    44,972.4       27          2     3,823.4     1,393.7    5,217.1        27         2
Subtotal Works                           222,775.2  163,469.1   386,244.3       42         20    24,634.7   17,990.4  42,625.2          42       20
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                       44,394.5  218,600.2   262,994.7       83         14     4,862.5   23,943.1   28,805.6         83        13
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment    22,883.6   26,151.2    49,034.8   53          3     2,519.5     2,884.0   5,403.5         53         3
3. Environmental Protection Equipment    8,666.1   12,999.1    21,665.2       60          1       949.2     1,423.8   2,373.0         60         1
4. Laboratory Equipment                    781.7    1,172.6     1,954.4       60          0        85.6       128.4     214.1         60         0
5. Office Equipment                      2,886.3    7,552.8    10,439.0       72          1       316.2       827.5    1,143.7        72         1
6. Other Equipment                      21,949.5   21,760.6    43,710.0       50          2     2,416.1     2,395.4   4,811.4         50         2
7. Transportation and Installation
Transportation                         8,437.5    5,625.0    14,062.5       40           1      925.9       617.3    1,543.1        40         1
Installation                          41,444.1   27,629.4    69,073.5        40         4      4,539.3    3,026.2   7,565.6         40         4
Subtotal Trnsportation and Installation  49,881.6  33,254.4    83,136.0       40          4     5,465.2    3,643.5   9,108.7          40        4
SubtotalEqulpmentand Machinery           151,443.2  321,490.9   472,934.1       68         24    16,614.3   35,245.6   51,859.9        68        24
D. Import Duty and VAT                    53,678.8       0.0    53,678.8         0          3     5,879.4        0.0    5,879.4         0         3
E. Input and Material                    247,250.3  104,371.7   351,622.0       30         18    27,110.9    11,435.0  38,545.9        30        18
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                 2,270.6    9,082.2    11,352.8       80          1       250.4     1,001.6    1,252.0        80         1
2. Van                                      68.2     613.8       682.0        90          0         7.5        67.2      74.7         90         0
3. Pickup                                   37.4     336.6       374.0        90          0         4.1        36.9      41.0         90         0
4. Car/Jeep                              2,469.8   12,580.8    15,050.5       84          1       271.3     1,385.4    1,656.7        84         1
5. OtherVehicle                          1,883.8   1,883.8      3,767.5       50          0       211.2       211.2     422.4        50          0
Subtotal Vehicles                          6,729.7  24,497.1    31,226.8        78          2       744.5    2,702.3    3,446.7        78         2
0. TrainingStudy Tour
1. DomesticTraining                     11,576.1    3,858.7    15,434.8       25          1     1,273.9      424.8    1,698.5        25          1
2. Overseas Training                         0.0   6,619.3      6,619.3      100          0         0.0       725.0     725.0        100         0
Subtotal TraininglStudyTour               11,576.1   10,478.0    22,054.B       48          1     1,273.9     1,149.6   2,423.5        47          1
H. Technical Asslstance
1. Local Consultant                      1,071.3     357.1      1,428.4       25          0       11B.4        39.5     157.9        25          0
2. Intematonal Consultant                   73.2    7,413.2    7,486.4        99          0         6.0       816.0     824.0         99         0
Subtotal Technical Assistance              1,144.5    7,770.3    8,914.8        87          0       126.4      855.5      981.9        87         0
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                     57,852.8   14,574.7    72,427.5       20          4     6,356.1     1,601.2   7,957.3        20          4
2. Technology Transfer Fee               2,728.0    1,942.0     4,670.0       42          0       328.7       234.0     562.7         42         0
3. Investment Tax                        6,346.8       0.0      6,346 8        0          0       764.7         0.0     764.7          0         0
4. Other                                25,687.5    2,854.2    28,541.7        10         1      2,828.9      314.3   3,143.2         10         1
Subtotal Other                            92,615.1   19,370.9   111,985.9       17          6    10,278.3    2,149.5  12,427.8         17         6
TotallnvestmentCosts                       801,250.7  651,447.9  1,452,698.6      45         75    88,353.6   71,528.0  159,881.6        45        74
11. Recurmnt Coats
A. Working Capital                       398,861.2   88,663.9   487,525.1       18         25    45,333.1    10,001.8  55,334.9         18       26
Total Recurrent Costa                      398,861.2   88,663.9  487,525.1        18         25    45,333.1    10,001.8  55,334.9        18        26
Total BASECOSTS                          1,200,111.8  740,111.8  1,940,223.7      38        100   133,686.7    81,529.7  215,216.5       38       100
Physical Contingencies                    77,664.0   64,894.9   142,558.9       46          7     8,538.8    7,122.7  15,661.5         45         7
Prce Contingencies                       180,897.2  119,845.1   300,742.3       40         16     5,417.9    3,529.1    8,947.0        39         4
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                        1,458,673.0  924,851.9  2,383,524.9      39        123   147,643.5    92,181.5  239,825.0       38       111



China
Heilongjiang Agrcultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(Yuan '000)                                                               (US$ 000)
Livestock     Aquaculture       Agro-        Institutional      Total      Livestock     Aquaculture        Agro-        Institutional    Total
Production                    Processing     Development                   Production                     Processing     Development
1. Investment Costs
A. LandAcquisition                            0.0          2,311.7       11,726.1             0.0       14,037.8          0.0           278.5         1,412.8             0.0    1,691.3
B. Works
1. Building                            301,422.0         3,197.8      114,387.8         1,723.4      420,731.0     29,445.7           358.3        11,445.0           178.1   41,427.2
2. Environmental Protection Works         474.2              0.0       14,341.0             0.0       14,815.1         49.0             0.0         1,463.6             0.0    1,512.6
3. Other Works                           7,393.9        32,432.6       15,401.3             0.0       55,227.7        731.0         3,619.7         1,556.3             0.0    5,907.0
Subtobl Works                            309,290.1        35,630.4      144,130.0         1,723.4      490,773.9     30,225.8         3,978.0        14,464.8           178.1   48,846.7
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                        4,595.7             0.0      319,790.8         8,098.6      332,485.1        475.1             0.0        31,620.4           837.2   32,932.6
2. OtherProduction/Processing Equipment  12,199.5        3,722.0       37,826.5         7,111.5       60,859.6      1,250.0           409.4         3,746.0           735.1    6,140.5
3. Environmental Protection Equipment       0.0              0.0       25,915.8           339.5       26,255.2          0.0             0.0         2,640.1            35.1    2,675.2
4. Laboratory Equipment                     0.0              0.0        2,158.5           330.3        2,488.9          0.0             0.0          211.2             34.1      245.4
5. Office Equipment                       225.6             35.6        5,156.8         7,317.8       12,735.9         22.8             4.0          508.9            756.4    1,292.2
6. Other Equipment                      16,887.0         2,730.0       33,090.9         2,531.7       55,239.6      1,650.0           299.5         3,293.5           258.0    5,501.0
7. Transportation and Installation
Transportation                            0.0            322.8       16,942.6           454.3       17,719.7          0.0            36.0         1,679.3            47.0    1,762.2
Installation                             27.0              0.0       86,063.9         1,703.8       87,794.8          2.8             0.0         8,487.3           176.1    8,666.2
Subtotal Transportation and Installation   27.0            322.8      103,006.5         2,158.1      105,514.4          2.8            36.0        10,166.5           223.1   10,428.4
Subtotal Equipment and Machinery          33,934.9         6,810.4      526,945.9        27,887.5      595,578.7      3,400.6           748.9        52,186.7         2,879.1    59,215.3
0. Import Duty and VAT                        0.0             0.0        66,975.3          965.3        67,940.6          0.0             0.0        6,624.5            99.8    6,724.3    1
E. Input and Material                    443,698.3         3,322.4           0.0          7,890.5      454,911.2     43,273.2           400.3            0.0           798.2   44,471.7    ul
F. Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                                Oo
1. Truck                                 1,879.6          939.3        11,401.4          182.8        14,403.2        193.8           105.5        1,114.9            18.9    1,433.0    1
2. Van                                      0.0              0.0         867.0              0.0         867.0           0.0             0.0           85.5              0.0       85.5
3. Pickup                                 261.1             0.0          195.8             0.0          456.9          27.0             0.0           19.3             0.0        46.3
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                   97.9            922.8        4,833.4        12,363.9       18,218.1          9.7           102.9          476.6          1,278.1    1,867.2
5. OtherVehide                           2,607.6         1,069.4        1,124.9            0.0         4,801.8        253.2           120.2          110.9             0.0       484.3
Subtotal Vehicles                          4,846.2         2,931.5       18,422.5        12,546.7       38,747.0       483.6            328.6        1,807.1          1,297.0    3,916.3
G. Training/Study Tour
1. Domestic Training                       46.0           857.9        6,186.5         11,944.0      19,034.4          4.8            97.6           621.3          1,202.3    1,925.9
2. Overseas Training                        0.0             0.0         3,695.0         4,199.6        7,894.6          0.0             0.0          380.8           432.5       813.3
Subtotal Training/Study Tour                 46.0           857.9         9,881.5        16,143.6      26,929.0          4.8            97.6         1,002.2          1,634.8    2,739.3
H. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consultant                       221.5             0.0          928.9           631.1        1,781.4         22.1             0.0            92.9            63.8      178.7
2. Intemational Consultant                442.9             0.0         5,513.6         3,569.3        9,525.8        45.2             0.0           542.8           353.4      941.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance               664.4             0.0        6,442.5          4,200.3      11,307.2         67.2             0.0           635.6           417.1    1,120.0
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                    26,327.6          2,769.0      19,869.3         45,979.5      94,945.4       2,578.4          305.7         1,975.6         4,368.5    9,228.2
2. Technology Transfer Fee                  0.0             0.0        4,670.0             0.0        4,670.0          0.0             0.0           562.7             0.0      562.7
3. Investment Tax                           0.0             0.0        6,346.8             0.0        6,346.8          0.0             0.0           764.7             0.0      764.7  p 
4. Other                                 2,568.1         1,055.0       31,002.8            0.0        34,625.9       257.8           127.1         3,148.8             0.0    3,533.6 6    Z
Subtotal Other                           28,895.7          3,824.0       61,889.0        45,979.5      140,588.2      2,836.2          432.8         6,451.7          4,368.5   14,089.1  (D
Total lnvestmentCosts                     821,375.5         55,688.3     846,412.8        117,336.9    1,840,813.5     80,291.4         6,264.7       84,585.5         11,672.6  182,814.1    t
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Working Capital                       365,889.8        13,221.6      163,600.0            0.0       542,711.4     35,707.1         1,593.0       19,710.8             0.0   57,010.9
Total RecurrentCosts                      365,889.8         13,221.6     163,600.0             0.0      542,711.4      35,707.1         1,593.0       19,710.8             0.0   57,010.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,187,265.3        68,909.9    1,010,012.8       117,336.9    2,383,524.9    115,998.4         7,857.6      104,296.3         11,672.6  239,825.0



China
Heilongilang Agricultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(Yuan'000)                                                      (US$ '000)
97/98       98199       99/00       00/01      01/02       Total       97/98      98/99     99/00      00/01      01/02      Total
L. In....neat Cost
A. Land Acquisition                       14,037.8         0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0       14,037.8    1,691.3      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    1,691.3
B. Works
1. Building                            112,697.6    191,011.8    61,039.0   55,982.6      0.0      420,731.0   11,672.3   18,845.4    5,789.3    5,120.3      0.0   41,427.1
2. Environmental ProtectionWorks        10,921.7     3,813.8        79.7        0.0        0.0      14,815.2    1,129.0     376.1       7.6        0.0        0.0    1,512.7
3. OtherWorks                           30,851.9    21,464.3      1,736.7    1,174.8       0.0      55,227.7    3,389.9    2,244.8    164.7      107.4        0.0    5,906.9
SubotaloW.,ku                            154,471.2   216,289.9    62,855.4   57,157.4       0.0     490,773.9   16,191.2   21,466.3   5961.6    5,227.7       0.0   48,846.8
C. Equipmnt and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                       74,782.4    202,040.2    55,662.5       0.0       0.0      332,485.0    7,730.3   19,922.9    5,279.4      0.0        0.0   32,932.8
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment  27,389.2    25,915.2   7,555.2        0.0        0.0      60,859.8    2,842.4    2,581.5    716.5        0.0        0.0    6,140.4
3. Environmental Protection Equipment   18,108.9     8,146.3         0.0        0.0        0.0      26,255.2    1,871.9     803.3       0.0        0.0        0.0    2,675.2
4. Laboratory Equipment                    497.4      1,353.3      638.2        0.0        0.0       2,488.9      51.4      133.4      60.6        0.0        0.0     245.4
5. Olfice Equipment                      7,718.0     4,800.2       217.7        0.0        0.0      12,735.9     798.2     473.3       20.6        0.0        0,0    1,292.1
6. Other Equipment                      14,328.3    32,866.9     4,722.1    3,322.3        0.0      55,239.6    1,487.7    3,261.6    447.8      303.8        0.0    5,501.0
T. Transportdion and Inlia on
Transportabon                          4,514.6     10,579 5     2,625.7       0.0        0.0      17,719.8     468.6    1,044.6     249.1        0.0        0.0    1,762.3
Installation                          17,065.9    51,488.0    19,240.9        0.0        0.0      87,794.8    1,764.1    5,077.2    1,824.9      0.0        0.0    8,666.1
Sutotti Transporation end Intlltion     21,580.5    62,067.5    21,868          0.0       0.0      105,514.5    2,232.7    6,121.8    2,073.9      0.0        0.0   10,428.4
Subtota Equipmenta nd Machinery          164,404.7    337,189.6    90,662.2    3,322.3      0.0     595,578.8   17,014.6   33,297.9    8,598.9     303.8       0.0   59,215.2
D. Import Duty and VAT                    14,349.2    42,015.1    11,576.5       0.0        0.0      67,940.8    1,483.3    4,143.0    1,098.0      0.0        0.0    6,724.3
E. Input and Matenal                      98,995.0   189,542.0    81,251.3   84,953.9     169.1     454,911.2   10,290.1   18,690.5    7,706.3    7,770.0     14.9   44,471.8
F. Vahicusa
1. Truck                                 3,008.3     8,427.7     2,967.1       0.0        0.0      14,403.1     318.1      833.5      281.4        0.0       0.0    1,433.0
2. Van                                      0.0        867.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         867.0        0.0      85.5        0.0        0.0       0.0       85.5
3. Pickup                                 261.1        195.8         0.0        0.0       0.0         456.9       27.0      19.3        0.0        0.0       0.0       46.3
4. Car/Jeep                             13,006.8     5,062.2       149.1        0.0       0.0       18,218.1    1,350.1    503.0       14.1        0.0       0.0    1,867.2
5. Other Vehicle                         1,268.5     2,416.0       541.1      576.2       0.0       4,801.8      139.3     240.9       51.3       52.7       0.0      484.2
SubtataiVehicles                          17,544.7    16,968.7     3,657.3     576.2        0.0      38,746.9    1,834.5    1,682.2     346.9      52.7        0.0    3,916.3
0. Trkiing/Study Tour
1. Donestic Training                     9,867.9     7,360.4     1,777.5       28.6       0.0       19,034.4    1,028.9    725.8      168.6        2.6       0.0    1,925.9
2. Overseas Training                     7,318.7       576.0         0.0        0.0       0.0       7,894.7      756.5      56.8        0.0        0.0       0.0      813.3
Subtoa Traningltdy Tour                   17,186.6     7,936.4     1,777.5      28.6        0.0      26,929.1    1,785.5     782.6      168.6       2.6        0.0    2,739.3
H. Tfthnicl Assistanc
1. Local Consultant                       578.8        801.6       258.6     142.3        0.0       1,781.3      62.1       79.0       24.5       13.0       0.0      178.6
2. Intemational Consultant               1,422.3     5,154.4     2,949.1       0.0        0.0       9,525.8      153.3     508.3      279.7       0.0        0.0      941.3
Subtota ITechnkclaAmulutn.e                2,001.1     5,956.0     3,207.7     142.3        0.0      11,307.1     215.4      587.3      304.2      13.0        0.0    1,119.9
L. othw
1. Project Oveihead                     22,915.1    31,171.3    16,208.6   14,431.1   10,219.2     94,945.3    2,386.3    3,079.3    1.539.3    1,322.0    901.3    9,228.2
2. Technology Transfer Fee               2,270.0     1,650.0       750.0        0,0       0.0       4,670.0      273.5     198.8       90A         0.0       0.0      562.7
3. Investment Tax                        2,442.4     3,525.3       379.1       0.0        0.0       6,346.8     294.3      424.7       45.7       0.0        0.0      764.8
4. Other                                23,637.5     5,591.6     5,003.3      190.6     202.9      34,625.9    2,461.5     562.3      474.5       17.4      17.9    3,533.5
SubtoialOtheir                            51,265.0    41,938.2    22,340.9   14,621.7   10,422.1    140,568.0    5,415.6    4,265.2    2,149.9    1,339.4    919.2   14,089.2
Tota lIsaunentCoatu                       534,255.1    857,835.9   277,328.8  160,802.4   10,591.2   1,840,813.5   55,921.4   84,915.0   26,334.3   14,709.3  934.1  182,814.0                    rJ Z
11. Racurrntcoats                                                                                                                                                                                    'g
A.WorkingCapital                          74,023.3    171,118.4   165,658.1  103,224.6   28,687.0   542,711.4    7,651.9   17,120.7   18,304.4   10,477.6    3,456.3   57,010.9                 (D
TotalRurnsntCostu                          74,023.3    171,118.4   165,658.1  103,224.6   28,687.0    542,711.4    7,651.9   17,120.7   18,304.4   10,477.6    3,456.3   57,010.9                IA I
Tota PRtOECTCOSTS                         608,278.4  1,028,954.3   442,986.8  264,027.0   39,278.3   2,238,524.9   63,573.3  102,035.7   44,638.8   25,186.9    4,390.3  239,825.0



China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (Yuan '000)                        Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
97/98      98/99       99100       00/01      01/02      Total      97/98     98/99      99/00      00/01      01/02     Total
A. Livestock Production
Dairy Cattle                  44,546.2    95,846.3    50,873.2    54,179.9     0.0   245,445.7    4,604.8    9,451.3    4,825.1    4,955.4       0.0  23,836.5
Beef Cattle                  116,214.4   249,986.9    132,398.5   137,608.7     0.0   636,208.5   12,013.2   24,650.9   12,557.4    12,585.9     0.0  61,807.3
Pig                           23,498.4    45,943.1    24,492.5   26,084.5      0.0   120,018.5    2,429.0    4,530.4    2,323.0    2,385.7       0.0  11,668.2
Geese                         69,492.4   102,495.2      226.6      190.6      202.9   172,607.7    7,183.5   10,106.9     21.5        17.4      17.9  17,347.2
Fox                           12,349.4      635.5         0.0        0.0        0.0    12,984.9    1,276.6     62.7        0.0        0.0        0.0   1,339.2
Subtotal Livestock Production  266,100.7   494,907.1    207,990.8   218,063.7  202.9  1,187,265.3   27,507.0   48,802.2   19,727.0    19,944.4   17.9  115,998.4
B. Aquaculture                 34,821.1    28,280.9     5,505.4      230.2      72.3    68,909.9    4,004.7    3,162.9     659.8       23.2       7.0   7,857.6
C. Agro-processing
1. Livestock Processing
Anda Milk                     12,251.0    40,428.2     9,116.7     480.0      480.0    62,755.9    1,269.1    4,002.5    901.6       57.8       57.8   6,288.9
Hulan Pig                      8,194.1    22,384.7    13,479.2    3,000.0    3,000.0    50,057.9    847.0    2,207.3    1,509.2     361.4      361.4   5,286.4
Binxian Beef                  15,781.1    25,558.8    16,041.2    3,600.0      0.0    60,981.1    1,697.6    2,529.4    1,738.4     433.7       0.0   6,399.1
Geese                         45,222.7    80,384.4    12,007.8    3,050.0    1,090.0   141,754.9    4,674.7    7,973.9    1,437.6   367.5      131.3  14,584.9
Livestock Processing Study      500.0        0.0          0.0        0.0       0.0       500.0       60.2       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      60.2
Subtotal Livestock Processing  81,948.8   168,756.1   50,644.9    10,130.0   4,570.0   316,049.8    8,548.7   16,713.1    5,586.7  1,220.5     550.6  32,619.6
2. Crop Processing
Zhaozhou Com Starch           27,692.6    65,120.1    43,980.5    5,400.0    5,400.0   147,593.2    2,878.3    6,453.6    4,610.6   650.6      650.6  15,243.7
Tailai Mung Bean               5,290.6    7,483.4      2,160.0     720.0     720.0    16,374.0      573.0     737.9      260.2       86.7       86.7   1,744.7
Suihua Rice Mill              13,679.4    43,080.6    34,898.5    5,400.0    5,400.0   102,458.4    1,417.2    4,256.3    3,727.4   650.6     650.6  10,702.1     1
NehevVheat Mill               35,878.4    71,644.8    16,779.2    6,672.0    6,672.0   137,646.4    3,712.5    7,072.7    1,678.2   803.9     803.9  14,071.1    O,,
Bayan Com                     19,135.3    19,057.5    8,642.0        0.0       0.0    46,834.9    2,026.7    1,918.1     947.8        0.0       0.0   4,892.6     o
Lanxi Epoxy Oil                9,357.2    13,401.6    4,000.0     1,070.0      0.0    27,828.7    1,001.6    1,327.0     481.9      128.9       0.0   2,939.4     1
Lanxi Flax Seed               8,582.1     1,584.5       805.5      400.0       0.0    11,372.1      903.5     182.5       86.7       48.2       0.0   1,220.8
QiqiharSea Buckthom           11,544.9    23,825.8    19,436.5    3,467.3    3,325.0    61,599.5    1,225.9    2,349.4    2,106.2   413.6     400.6   6,495.7
Shuangchen Com Processing     26,369.8    73,815.9    36,870.2    2,600.0    2,600.0   142,255.9    2,757.7    7,285.5    3,696.9   313.3     313.3  14,366.6
Subtotal Crop Processing     157,530.2   319,014.2    167,572.3    25,729.3   24,117.0   693,963.0   16,496.3   31,583.0   17,596.0  3,095.8   2,905.7  71,676.7
Subtotal Agro-processing      239,479.1   487,770.2    218,217.3    35,859.3   28,687.0  1,010,012.8   25,045.0   48,296.1   23,182.8  4,316.3   3,456.3  104,296.3
D. Institutional Development
Livestock Support Services    33,908.6    7,307.8      1,371.5     346.2     169.1    43,103.2    3,505.2     720.6      130.1       31.7      14.9   4,402.4
Crop Support Services         17,639.9     896.4        955.7        0.0       0.0    19,492.1    1,823.5      88.4       90.6        0.0       0.0   2,002.5
Institutional Support         16,329.0    9,791.9     8,946.2    9,527.7   10,147.0    54,741.6    1,687.9    965.6      848.5      871.4     894.3   5,267.7
Subtotal Institutional Development   67,877.5    17,996.1  11,273.4  9,873.8   10,316.1   117,336.9    7,016.5    1,774.6    1,069.2  903.1     909.2  11,672.6
Total PROJECT COSTS           608,278.4  1,028,954.3    442,986.8   264,027.0   39,278.3  2,383,524.9   63,573.3  102,035.7   44,638.8    25,186.9   4,390.3  239,825.0
H ;n



China
Helongiiang Agricultural Development Pryect
-xpenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including ContingenciWs
(US$ '00)
Livestock ProductUon
Dairy Cattle                                                                                 Goose Production
Production        Beef Cattle Production          Pig Production                                Provincial
Datiry     Dairy       Beef         Beef        Pig       Pig                 Goose      Goose        GP          County
Cattle -2    Cattle -4   Fattening-   Fattening -  Fattening  Fattening  Pig  Fattening   Fattening   Breeding   Cross-breeding    County    Fox
Cows       Cows      20 CattUe    10 Cattle    - 10 Pig   -20 Pig   Breeding   - 100 Bird   *200 Bird    Center    Farm       Hatcheries  Breoding     Total
I. investment Costn
B. Works
1. Buiding                        1,572.4    4,722.9     11,454.7     2,575.7    1,045.0    1,736.5    1,900.0   1,025.9    1,823.8      524.4          637.4       198.5     228.5     29,445.7
2. Environmental Protection Works      -           -           -           -          -         -          -          -           -                         -           -      49.0         49.0
3. Other Works                      107.5      409.3           -                 -         -               -          -          -       111.7              -        38.1      64.5        731.0
Subtobl Work                        1;679.9    5,132.2     11,454.7     2,675.7    1,045.0    1.736.5    1,900.0   1,025.9    1,823.8      636.1          637.4       2365      342.0     30,225.8
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                      -           -                 -           -              -          -          -          -           -              -       475.1         -        475.1
2. ProductionlProcessing Equipment     -           -           -           -          -         -          -          -           -      275.1              -       650.9     323.9      1,250.0
5. Office Equipment                                -           -           -          -         -          .          .           -       13.6                          -       9.2         22.8
6. Othw Equipment                   162.5      529.6       350.9        127.2     140.9      140.9      26.1                                 -            26.6       54.0      91.3       1,650.0
7. Trnportation and Installation
Instalation                          -           -           -           -          -         -          ---                         j,,,,                -           -       2.8          2.8
Subtotal Equlpment and Machinery      162.5      529.6       350.9        127.2     140.9     140.9       26.1                     -       288.7           26.6    1,180.0      427.2      3,400.6
E. Input nd Material                2,086.8    10,296.6    18,728.0     3,976.7     563.5    1,127.0     974.0     1,449.9    2,899.8      135.9          829.9          -      205.1     43,273.2
F. Vehicier
1. Tnuck                               -                       -           -          -         -         -           -                   11.0              -       135.0      47.8       193.8
3. Pickup                              ,          ,            ,           ,          ,                   ,           ,          ,        27.0                         -                   27.0
4. Car 4WD Siation Wagon               -          -                                                                                                                                           7-  -  -  9    9.7
5. Other Vehicle                    73.0       180.2                            -          -         -          -           -                -              -          -          -       253.2
Subtotal Vehicles                     73.0       180.2           -           -47.7                                                                                    13.0       47.8       483.6
G. Tralning/Study Tour
1. Domeask TmrrkN- -                                           -                -          -         -          -          -    -            -              -                   4.8         4.8
H. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consultant                               -            -           -         -          -         -           -          -        13.3              -                   8.8        22.1
2. International Consultant            -          -            -           -          -                                                   45.2              -                     -        45.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance            -          -            -           -                                                              58.4              -                   8.8        67.2
I. Other
1. Project Overheed                133.0       508.4       937.7       222.3       64.0     109.9      111.2       88.9      155.0        43.1           50.5       109.5      44.9      2,578.4
4. Ofter                               -          -            -           -          -         -         -           -          -        85.0                         -      172.7       257.8
Subtotal Othar                        133.0      508.4       937.7       222.3       64.0     109.9      1t1.2       88.9      155.0       128.1           50.5       109.5     217.6      2,836.2
TotalInvestmentCosts                  4,135.4    16,647.0    31,471.3     6,902.0    1,813.4    3,114.3    3,011.3   2,564.7    4,878.5    1,294.9         1,544.4    1,660.9    1,253.3    80,291.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A.WorkingCapit8_   515.1                       2,539.1     19,304.4     4,129.6     938.4    1,891.6     899.2     1,119.1    2,238.2      203.9          8450        997.6      85.9    35,707.1
Total RecurrentCoats                   515.1     2,539.1     19,304.4     4,129.6     938.4    1,891.6     899.2     1,119.1    2,238.2      203.9          645.0      997.6       85.9    35,707.1
4,650.4    19,186.1   50,775.8     11,031.5    2,751.7    5,005.9   3,910.5   3,683.8     7,116.8    1,498.8        2,389.4    2,658.4    1,339.2    115,998.4
t.n L.



China
Heieng AgslcAuki Oevepn  Projec
Expenditure Accounts by Comnponents . Totals Including Contingencies
(Yuan '000)
Livestock Production
Dairy Catte Production    Beef Catte Production              Pig Production                                   Goose Production
Dairy                     Beef         Beef         Pig          Pig                    Goose        Goose      Provincial     County
Cattdi .2    Dairy Cattle   Fattening -   Fattening -   Fattening -   Fattening -  Pig  Fattening -   Fattening -  GP Breeding  Cross-broeding    County    Fox
Cows        4 Cows      20 Cate      10 Cattle     10 Pig       20 Pig     Breeding    100 Bird     200 Bird     Center         Farn        Hatcheies   Breeding      Total
1. Investment Costs
B. Works
1. Building                       16,193.8     48,630.5    117,934.0     26,485.4    10,753.2     17,869.2    19,527.6     10,245.9     18,214.9     5,073.1         6,364.1     1,919.9     2,210.6    301,422.0
2. Environmental Protection Vorks                     -           -            -                         -          -            -            -            -               -          -       474.2        474.2
3. Otervorks                       1,106.8      4,214.3                                                  -          -            -            -      1,080.5               -      368.2       624.1      7,393.9
Subtotal Works                      17,300.8     52,844.8    117,934.0     26,485.4     10,753.2    17,869.2    19,527.6     10,245.9     18,214.9     6,153.6         6,364.1     2,288.0     3,308.8    309,290.1
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                                                       -            -                               -           -            -             -                    4595.7                  4,595.7
2. ProducticnlProcessing Equipment                                -            -           -            -                                            2,769.2               -     6,296.9     3,133.4    12,199.5
5. Ofiice Equipmnent                                              ,                                                                                    138.8              -                    89.0        225.6
6. OtherEquipnment                 1,673.9      5,453.4      3,613.0      1,307.7      1,449.6     1,449.6       268.6                                                 265.2      522.2       883.7      168,87.0
7. Transportaion and Installation
lnstaitloil-                                                    -                        -                         -           -                         -              -           -        27.0         27.0
Subtotal Equipment and Machinery     1,673.9      5,453.4      3,613.0      1,307.7      1,449.6     1,449.6       268.6           .            -      2,905.8           265.2    11,414.8    4,133.2     33,934.9
E. Inputand Matcrial                21,491.4    106,020.9    192,817.3     40,891.2      5,798.3    11,596.6    10,010.9     14,480.9     28,961.7     1,358.1         8,286.5                 1,984.5    443,698.3
F. Vehiclesw
1. Truck                                -             -           -            -            -           -           -            -            -        111.9              -      1,3056       462,2      1,879.6   i.
3. Pickup                               -             -           -            -            -            -          -                                  261.1                    -                          261.1
4. Card4WID Stati agogn                 -             -           -            -                                                                        97.9                                                979
5. OiherVdicie                      752.2       1,855.4                                      -          -                  -           -                    -           -                         -      2,607.8
Subtotal Vehicles                     752.2        1.855.4          -            -            -            -           -           -            -        470.9              -      1,305.6      462.2      4,846.2
G. Training/Study Tour
1. Domestic Tdining                     -             -           -            -            -           -           -            -            -            -              -           -        46.0         46.0
H. Technical Assistance
1. LocaiConsultant                      -             -           -            -            -            -          -                                  134.2              -           -        87.2        221.5
2. Intemaional Consultant                                               -            -            -            -                                       442.9               -                               442.9
Subtotai Technical Assistance                           -            -           -            -            -           -           -            -        577.2                          -        87.2        664.4
I. Other
I. PrroectOverhead                 1,370.1      5,234.8      9,654.6      2,286.1       658.9      1,130.7     1,142.7       868.0       1,548.3       416.9          503.8      1,058.8      434.0     26,327.6
4. Other                                -                         -            -            -            .           -           -            -        696.9              -           .      1,871.2     2,588.1
Subtotal Other                       1,3701        5,234.8     9,654.6      2,286.1       658.9      1,130.7     1,142.7       888.0       1,548.3     1,313.8           503.8     1,056 8     2,105.1    28,895.7
Total Investment Costs                42,588.2     171,409.3    324,018.9    70,970.4     18,659.9    32,046.0    30,949.8     25,614.8     48,724.9    12,779.4        15,419 6    16.067.2    12,127.1    821,375.5
11. Recurrent Costa
A. Working Capital                   5,304.5      26,143.8    198,751,2    42,408.0      9,655.8    19,465.0     9,242.0     11,177.3     22,354.7     2.030.9         8,437.2    10.001.8      857.8    365,889.8
Total RcurrentCosts                    5,304.5      26,143.8    198,751.2    42,468.0      9,655.8    19,465.0     9,242.0     11,177.3     22,354.7     2,030.9         8,437.2    10,001.6      857.8    385,889.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                   47,892.6     197,553.0    522,770,1    113,438.4    28,315.7     51,511.0    40,191.7    36,792.1     71,079.6     14,810.3        23,856.8    26,088.9    12,984.9   1.187,25.3
ovw



01/13197
China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including-Contingencies
(USS '000)
Aquaculture
Bayan    Dumeng  Shuangcheng               Sulhua   Wangkul Zhaoyuan  Provincial
County    County     County    Nehe City   County    County   County        BAH       Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition                                     27.3     144.6          9.0      48.8          -      48.8         -          -      278.5
B. Works
1. Building                                           32.8      84.0        75.6       40.8      57.0       43.0     25.1           -     358.3
3. Other Works                                       527.0     164.8        577.0     553.3      795.5     575.2    426.9           -    3,619.7
Subtotal Works                                         559.8     248.8       652.6      594.1     852.5      618.2    452.0                3,978.0
C. Equipment and Machinery
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment              61.5      74.7        63.0       46.1      93.5       40.1     30.5           -     409.4
5. Office Equipment                                     -          -           -          -                    -        -         4.0       4.0
6. Other Equipment                                   47.2       31.3        42.6       29.8      71.2       46.2     31.3           -     299.5
7. Transportation and Installation
Transportation                                       4.1       5.1          9.4       3.7        7.5       3.7       2.6          -      36.0
Subtotal Equlpmentand Machinery                        112.7     111.0        115.0      79.6      172.1      90.0     64.4         4.0     748.9
E. Input and Material                                     -      400.3           -          -         -          -        -           -     400.3
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                              13.1      26.8        13.1       13.1      13.1       13.1     13.1           -     105.5
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                              20.4      41.7         10.2      10.2       10.2      10.2        -           -      102.9
5. Other Vehicle                                       2.9      29.8        46.6        5.8      23.3        5.8      5.8           -     120.2
Subtotal Vehicles                                       36.4      98.3        70.0       29.2      46.6       29.2     18.9           -     328.6
G. Training/Study Tour
1. Domestic Training                                  11.7      10.0        24.1       10.8      16.4       14.6     10.0           -      97.6
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                                  37.9       30.9        46.4       36.4      54.5       38.0     28.3        33.3     305.7
4. Other                                              26.5       6.6        33.1       19.9      14.5       19.9      6.6           -     127.1
Subtotal Other                                         64.4       37.6        79.6       56.2      68.9       57.9     34.9        33.3     432.8
Total Investment Costs                                  812.4    1,050.6       950.3      818.6    1,156.6     858.6    580.2        37.4    6,264.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Working CapHal                                     233.0      159.0       367.6      204.4     265.5      204.4    159.0           -    1,593.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                   233.0      159.0       367.6      204.4     265.5      204.4    159.0          -    1,593.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     1,045.4    1,209.6    1,317.9    1,023.0    1,422.1    1,063.0    739.2      37.4    7,857.6
crz
¢, 



01/13/97
China
Heilongiiang Agricultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including*Contingencies
(Yuan '000)
Aquaculture
Bayan    Dumeng  Shuangcheng               Suihua    Wangkui  Zhaoyuan  Provincial
County    County      County    Nehe City   County    County    County      BAH        Total
I, Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition                                  226.6    1,200.0         75.0     405.0          -     405.1         -          -     2,311.7
B. Works
1. Building                                        289.1      774A4       665.3      359.4      511.1     378.1     220.5          -    3,197.8
3. Other Works                                    4,717.8    1,474.1     5,172.7   4,962.6    7,131.5   5,151.2   3,822.8           - 32,432.6
Subtotal Works                                      5,006.9    2,248.4     5,838.0   5,321.9    7,642.6   5,529.4   4,043.2          -    35,630.4
C. Equipment and Machinery
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment           560.7      669.8       556.8      423.8      861.6     368.9     280.6          -    3,722.0
5. Office Equipment                                    -          -           -          -          -         -         -       35.6        35.6
B. OtheT Equipment                                 425.4      288.3       381.5      274.6      650.5     425.6     284.0          -    2,730.0
7. Transportation and Installation
Transportation                                    36.6       45.5        84.3       33.0       67.1      33.0      23.3          -       322.8
Subtotal Equipment and Machinery                    1,022.7    1,003.6     1,022.5     731.4    1,579.2     827.5     587.9       35.6    6,810.4      4.
E. Input and Material                                    -     3,322.4          -         -          -          -         -          -    3,322.4
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                           115.4      247.1       115.4     115.4       115.4     115.4     115.4          -      939.3
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                           179.5      384.4        89.7       89.7       89.7      89.7         -          -      922.8
5. Other Vehicle                                    25.6      274.6       410.2       51.3      205.1      51.3      51.3          -     1,069.4
Subtotal Vehicles                                    320.5      906.2       615.3     256.4       410.2     256.4     166.6          -    2,931.5
G. TraininglStudy Tour
1. Domestic Training                               103.2       87.9       211.8      94.6       144.3     128.3      87.8          -      857.9
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                                341.1      275.2       419.2     327.5      490.1      342.0     254.6      319.4    2,769.0
4. Other                                           220.0       55.0       275.0      165.0      120.0     165.0      55.0          -     1,055.0
Subtotal Other                                       561.1      330.2       694.2     492.5       610.1     507.0     309.6      319.4    3,824.0
Total Investment Costs                               7,240.8    9,098.7      8,456.8   7,301.8   10,386.4   7,653.6   5,195.2      355.0   55,688.3
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Working Capital                                  1,934.3    1,320.0     3,050.8   1,696.5    2,204.0   1,696.5   1,319.5          -    13,221.6
Total Recurrent Costs                                1,934.3    1,320.0      3,050.8   1,696.5    2,204.0   1,696.5   1,319.5          -    13,221.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   9,175.1   10,418.7    11,507.6   8,998.3   12,590.4   9,350.1   6,514.7       355.0   68,909.9
i-I



China
Heilongjiang Agricuftural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
Crop Processing
Qiqihar Shuangcheng
Zhaozhou     Tailal   Suihua Rice Nehe Wheat                Lanxi   Lanxi Flax     Sea        Com
Com Starch Mung Bean       Mill        Mill    Bayan Corn  Epoxy Oil    Seed    Buckthom   Processing      Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition                           45.7       77.2           -           -       271.1      180.7      115.1      228.5         72.3      990.6
B. Works
1. Building                              1,461.1     330.9        766.6       796.3       738.3     419.2       324.9      347.5      1,442.6    6,627.5
2. Environmental Protection Works          262.4       16.9        46.5        27.7       159.7      69.1           -       42.7       150.7       775.5
3. Other Works                             254.9       95.2        64.8        37.8       150.0      70.1        54.0      165.6       104.8       997.2
Subtotal Works                              1,978.3     442.9       877.9       861.8     1,048.0     558.4       378.9      555.9      1,698.2     8,400.1
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                        4,496.5     215.7       3,072.1    6,659.2      987.7      479.5        50.2    1,845.2      5,441.5    23,247.6
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment   495.6      63.0        178.4           -       394.4     236.5       124.8      178.9       975.9     2,647.4
3. Environmental Protection Equipment      526.6      35.4        225.1        88.2       171.1     125.5        27.0       71.2       339.7      1,609.9
4. Laboratory Equipment                        -        8.9           -           -        21.2      27.6         4.5       40.5        35.4       138.0
5. Office Equipment                         20.6       23.9        49.2        16.0       103.9      13.2        15.0       25.9        117.2      384.9
6. Other Equipment                         672.5       51.5       245.8       200.1        81.7      81.3        32.8      219.7       223.1      1,645.1
7. Transportation and Installation
Transportation                           248.5       15.9       150.8       278.5       63.9       38.5         8.6      95.3        285.3     1,185.4
Installation                           1,455.5      80.3       1,152.2    1,076.2      239.5      202.1        32.3     357.2       1,865.1    6,460.4              0
SubtotaiTransportationand Installation    1,704.0      96.2      1,303.0     1,354.7      303.4     240.6        41.0      452.5      2,1504      7,645.8
Subtotal Equipment and Machinery           7,915.8      494.5      5,073.6    8,318.2     1,900.0    1,204.3      295.2    2,834.0      9,283.1    37,318.6
D. Import Duty and VAT                       738.3         -        869.9     1,963.0       42.2          -           -     425.3        684.6     4,723.3
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                    22.1      17.4          9.0           -       39.8       27.3        37.8      41.4         17.9       212.6
2. Van                                      15.2         -            -           -        13.8         -           -      34.5          8.3        71.7
3. Pickup                                   11.0       8.3            -                                 -           -         -            -        19.3
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                    26.2       8.3         35.9           -        27.6      34.5        10.8      51.7         22.1       217.0
5. Other Vehide                                -         -            -           -       33.7       10.3           -       7.6         16.5        68.2
Subtotal Vehicles                             74.5      33.9         44.8           -       114.9      72.1        48.6     135.1         64.8       588.8
G. Training/Study Tour
1. Domestic Training                       108.3      24.0         32.2         9.4       34 7       37.0       121.2      12.2         29.7       408.7
2. Overseas Training                       108.0         -         38.7        62.2          -          -           -         -         48.1       256.9
Subtotal TraininglStudy Tour                 216.3      24.0         70.9        71.6       56.2       37.0       121.2      12.2         77.8       687.1
H. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consultant                          4.6         -            -         0.8        4.6       29.7                  25.5          8.9        74.0
2. Intemational Consultant                  17.3         -         34.7        50.7       111.7         -                     -         16.9       231.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                 21.9         -         34.7        51.5      116.3       29.7           -      25.5         25.8       305.4
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                        286.7      29.4        162.7       273.9       92.6       53.3       20.8      102.8        309.1     1,331.2          '-4
2. Technology Transfer Fee                 180.7      43.4            -           -      108.4       42.2          -          -        188.0       562.7
3. Investment Tax                          173.7      63.4         76.9        75.7      177.0       49.2                     -            -       615.8
4. Other                                   358.9     102.3        237.7       445.9      385.1      101.8          -      140.3        396.7     2,168.6
Subtotal Other                               999.9     238.5        477.3       795.5      763.0      246.4        20.8     243.1        893.7     4,678.3
Total investmentCosts                       11,990.6    1,310.9      7,449.0    12,061.5    4,290.2    2,328.6      979.9    4,459.6     12,800.3    57,670.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Working Capital                         3,253.0     433.7       3,253.0    2,009.6      602.4      610.8       241.0    2,036.1     1,566.3    14,006.0
Total Recurrent Costs                        3,253.0     433.7       3,253.0    2,009.6      602.4      610.8       241.0    2,036.1     1,566.3    14,006.0
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                            15,243.7    1,744.7    10,702,1    14,071.1    4,892.6    2,939.4     1,220.8    6,495.7    14,366.6    71,676.7



China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(Yuan '000)
Crop Processing
Shuangcheng
Zhaozhou   Tailai Mung  Suihua Rice  Nehe Wheat             Lanxi Epoxy  Lanxi Flax  Qiqihar Sea   Corn
Corn Starch    Bean         Mill        Mill     Bayan Corn      Oil        Seed     Buckthorn   Processing     Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisdion                         379.2        640.5           -           -      2,249.8      1,500.0     955.5      1,896.7       600.0      8,221.7
B. Works
1. Building                            14,704.5     3,309.3     7,717.2      7,978.8     7,142.5     4,191.7     3,142.9     3,480.6    14,481.8     66,149.2
2. Environmental Protection Works       2,602.0       166.1       461.5       276.5      1,579.2       668.7          -       414.4      1,494.4      7,663.0
3. Other Works                          2,520.3       947.1       656.3       376.2      1,482.5       703.1      522.2      1,617.6     1,059.0      9,884.4
Subtotal Works                           19,826.8     4,422.5     8,835.0      8,631.5    10,204.3     5,563.5     3,665.2     5,512.6     17,035.2    83,696.6
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                      45,754.9     2,157.1    31,260.2    66,892.3      9,864.9     4,796.1      485.8     18,773.1    55,370.8    235,355.3
2. OtherProduction/Processing Equipment  4,951.7      630.3      1,813.7          -      4,158.6     2,365.8     1,207.7     1,819.5     9,841.8     26,789.1
3. Environmental Protection Equipment   5,218.8       342.1     2,230.8       874.2      1,735.5      1,214.2     261.1       705.8      3,366.5     15,948.9
4. Laboratory Equipment                      -         90.2           -           -        223.7       279.7       43.1       410.9        372.8      1,420.2
5. Office Equipment                      217.7        241.0       499.2       159.7      1,053.7       134.2      144.9       262.9      1,188.3      3,901.7
6. Other Equipment                      6,816.6       514.8     2,501.6      2,010.5       907.3       813.0      317.3      2,231.4     2,246.4     16,544.2
7. Transportation and Installation
Transportation                        2,518.4       159.0      1,532.2     2,797.5       645.2       384.1       83.4       968.1      2,895.5     11,983.4
Installation                         14,861.7       801.4     11,762.6    10,807.2     2,419.4     2,016.2      312.8      3,630.5    19,084.3    65,696.1
Subtotal Transportation and Installation  17,380.1    960.4     13,294.8    13,604.6     3,064.5     2,400.3      396.2      4,598.7    21,979.7     77,679.4          1
Subtotal Equipmentand Machinery          80,339.8     4,935.8    51,600.4    83,541.3     19,193.6    12,003.4    2,856.0    28,802.3     94,366.3    377,638.9         a%
D. Import Duty and VAT                    7,512.6          -      8,851.5     19,717.9      408.0           -           -      4,326.9     6,966.7    47,783.5          0%
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                 223.7       176.2         90.9           -       403.9        276.9      365.6       419.5       181.8      2,138.5
2. Van                                   153.8           -            -                    139.8           --                 349.6         83.9       727.2
3. Pickup                                111.9         83.9           -           -                       -           -           -           -        195.8
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                 265.7        83.9        363.6                   279.7        349.6      104.4       524.4        223.7     2,195.1
5. Other Vehicle                             -           -            -                   341.8        104.9          -        76.9        167.8       691.4
Subtotal Vehicles                          755.2        344.0       454.5           -      1,165.2       731.4      470.0      1,370.5       657.3     5,948.0
G. Training/Study Tour
1. Domestic Training                    1,063.7      233.2        318.5        92.6       355.9        372.9    1,224.1       121.7       298.7      4,081.2
2. Overseas Training                    1,044.4          -        374.2       609.3                       -           -           -       465.0      2,493.0
Subtotal Training/Study Tour              2,108.1      233.2        692.7       701.9       573.8        372.9    1,224.1       121.7       763.7      6,792.1
H. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consultant                       48.3           -           -          7.7        48.1       300.7           -       271.7        90.2        766.8
2. Intemational Consultant               182.9           -        365.7       514.5      1,155.8          -                       -        171.5     2,390.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance              231.2           -        365.7       522.2      1,203.9       300.7          -       271.7       261.7      3,157.2
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                     2,897.5      293.9      1,649.9     2,749.9       921.7       530.8       201.3      1,040.1     3,129.8    13,414.8      a  z
2. Technology Transfer Fee              1,500.0      360.0            -           -       900.0        350.0         -            -      1,560.0     4,670.0     (D X
3. InvestmentTax                        1,441.4      526.0        638.4       628.3      1,469.0      408.3          -            -           -      5,111.3
4. Other                                3,601.4     1,018.0     2,370.3     4,473.4      3,763.6       997.8          -      1,357.1     3,915.2    21,496.9      O
Subtotal Other                            9,440.4     2,198.0     4,658.6     7,851.6      7,054.3     2,286.8      201.3     2,397.2      8,605.0    44,693.1
Total Investment Costs                    120,593.2    12,774.0    75,458.4    120,966.4    41,834.9    22,758.7    9,372.1    44,699.5    129,255.9    577,713.0
It. Recurrent Costs
A. Working Capital                       27,000.0     3,600.0    27,000.0    16,680.0      5,000.0     5,070.0    2,000.0    16,900.0    13,000.0    116,250.0
Total Recurrent Costs                      27,000.0     3,600.0    27,000.0     16,680.0     5,000.0     5,070.0    2,000.0     16,900.0    13,000.0    116,250.0
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                         147,593.2    16,374.0    102,458.4    137,646.4    46,834.9    27,828.7    11372.1    61,599.5    142,255.9    693,963.0



China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ 000)
Livestock Processing
Zhaozhou   Zhaoyuan                           Wangkul    Bayan    Zhaodong                                      Livestock
Geese      Geese   Yian Geese Nehe Geese   Geese         Geese      Geese                           Binxian   Processing
Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Anda Milk  Hulan Pig    Beef  Study       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition                                         -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -         -      422.2          -       422.2
B. Works
1. Building                                          509.1       387.4      209.4       268.2       49.8       646.0      531.6      425.0     890.1      901.0          -     4,817.5
2. Environmental Protection Works                     47.0        32.0       134.9      127.0       39.9        39.9       28.2       47.0      22.6      169.5          -       688.1
3. Other Works                                         34.4       28.3       48.1        91.4       10.1        22.7       20.9       56.9      155.4      91.0          -       559.1
Subtotal Works                                         590.5       447.7      392.4       486.6       99.9       708.6      580.7      528.9    1,068.0    1,161.5               6,064.7
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                                    384.4       497.9      419.0       498.8      352.2       480.3      497.9    2,621.7    1,114.5    1,506.1         -     8,372.8
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment              151.3      136.2          -       203.9       67.8        67.8       99.1      372.6         -          -          -     1,098.6
3. Environmental Protection Equipment                 113.0      125.0        385        883        1180       1180       128.3      111 9      136.8      52.6          -      1,030.3
4. Laboratory Equipment                                7.1        11.6        7.1         7.1        5.0         5.0       11.6       14.7       4.0          -          -        73.2
5. Office Equipment                                    12.9        9.5        7.9        16.5        8.8         8.8        9.5       14.9      25.0       10.2          -       124.0
6. Other Equipment                                   327.4        86.3      213.8       129.5       26.8       292.1       77.2      249.1     142.9      103.5          -     1,648.5
7. Transportation and Installation
Transportation                                      39.8        34.7       27.4        37.8       23.1        38.9       32.9      135.4      56.9       66.9          -       493.9
Installation                                        149.4      158,9      102.9       141.6       91.7       166.5      149.3      511.1     213.5      341.9                2,026.9
SubtotalTransportatlonandInstallation                 189.2      1936        130.4      179.4      114.9       205.4      182.3      646.5     270.4      408.8          -     2,520.8
Subtotal Equipmentand Machinery                       1,185.2     1,060.2      816.6     1,123.4     693.4      1,177.3    1,005.9    4,031.3    1,693.6    2,081.2        -    14,868.0
D. Import Duty and VAT                                  80.5        80.5      106.1        80.5       80.5        80.5       80.5      619.8     215.7      476.7          -     1,901.2
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                              30.3       111.7       48.3        67.0       40.8        40.8      111.7      110.3      93.8      247.5                  902.2
2. Van                                                   -           -          -           -          -           -          -       13.8         -          -          -        13.8
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                              35.9        27.6       35.9        35.9       27.6        27.6       27.6          -      27.6       14.1                  259.6
5. OtherVehice                                           -           -          -           -          -           -          -       26.2      16.5          -          -        42.7
Subtotal Vehicles                                       66.2       139.3       84.1       102.9       68.4        68.4      139.3      150.3     137.9      261.6          -     1,218.4
G. Tralning/Study Tour
1. DomesticTraining                                   30.1        17.9       13.8        281        10.4        11.4       15.5       12.3      230        50.0                  212.6
2. Overseas Training                                     -           -       38.7        38.7          -           -          -        7.9      38.7          -                  123.9
Subtota TralninglStudyTour                              30.1        17.9       52.5        66.7       10.4        11.4       15.5       20.2      81.7       50.0                  336.5
H. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consullant                                      -           -          -           -        1.5         1.5          -         -          -         -        15.9        18.9
2. 1ntomational Consultant                               -           -           -          -          -           -          -      115.8     117.4       33.8       44.3       311.4
Subtotal Technical Assistance                              -           -          -           -        15          15           -      115.8     117.4       33.8       60.2       330.2
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                                   55.5        46.0       37.8        50.1       23.7        58.8       49.2      137.0      87.2       99.2          -       644.4
3. Investment Tax                                        -           -          -           -          -          -           -       46.6         -      102.2          -       148.9
4. Other                                              60.2        41.1       40.6        60.2          -        15.8       49.9      349.8      97.7      264.8          -       980.2
Subtotal Other                                          115.7       87.1       78.4       110.3       23.7        74.6       99.1      533.4     184.9      486.2          -     1773.4
TotallnvestmentCosts                                    2,068.2     1,832.6    1,530.1    1,970.4      977.8     2,122.3     1,921.0    5,999.7    3,479.2   4,953.4      60.2    26914.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Working Captal                                      257.8       248.2      228.9       466.3      325.3       409.6      226.5      289.2    1,807.2    1,445.8         -     5,704.8
Total Recurrent Coats                                    257.8       248.2      228.9       466.3      325.3       409.6      226.5      289.2    1,807.2    1,445.8         -     5,704.8      i-I
Total PROJECT COSTS                                     2,326.0     2,080.7    1,759.0     2,436.7    1,303.1     2,531.9    2,147.5    6,288.9   5,286.4   6,399.1       60.2    32,619.6       P.  
i-.



China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Expendtture Accounts by Components - Totals including Contingenctes
(Yuan '000)
Livestock Processing
Zhaozhou   Zhaoyuan                          Wangkul                Zhaodong                                     Livestock
Geese      Geese   Yban Geese Nehe Geese   Geese   Bayan Geese   Geese                               Binxian   Processing
Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Processing  Anda Milk  Hulan Pig  Beef     Study       Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Land Acquisition                                                        -                           -           -          -          -           -     3,504.5                3,504.5
B. Works
1. Building                                        5,092.0    3,873.8    2,025.3    2,687.3      504.8     6,462.0    5,321.6    4,250.6    8,978.3     9,042.9          -     48,238.5
2. Environmental Protection Works                   455.3      311.5    1,308.0     1,231.0      386.5       386.5      272.9       456.7      224.7     1,645.1         -      6,678.0
3. Other Works                                      345.2      280.9      485.4       922.5       97.9       224.6      207.4       555.3    1,503.0      894.6                 5,516.9
Subtotal Works                                       5,892.6    4,466.2    3,818.6    4,840.8      989.2      7,073.0    5,801.9    5,262.6    10,705.9    11,582.6              60,433.4
C. Equipmnent and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                                  3,845.6    4,981.6    4,191.4    4,990.0    3,523.4     4,805.0    4,981.6   26,569.6    11,294.6    15,252.8         -     84,435.5
2. Other Producion/Processing Equipment            1,513.2    1,362.2         -     2,039.1      678.3       678.3      990.6    3.775.7          -           -          -     11,037.4
3. Environmental Protection Equipment              1,092.8    1,209.0     372.1       853.9    1,141.1      1,141.1    1,241.6    1,082.3    1,323.9      509.2          -      9,966.9
4. Laboratory Equipment                              71.3      116.5       71.3        71.3       50.3        50.3      116.5       148.8       41.7          -          -        738.3
5. Office Equipment                                 130.5       96.4       79.7       165.4       89.5        89.5       96.4      151.2       253.1      103.5          -      1,255.1
6. Other Equipment                                 3,275.5     862.8    2,139.8     1,296.5      267.7      2,921.8     774.1     2,514.3    1,449.2     1,045.0         -     16,546.7
7. Trensportation and Installation
Transportation                                    397.2      345.1      274.2       376.6      230.0       387.4      328.0     1,369.7      574.5      676.4                 4,959.2
Installation                                     1,489.3    1,588.0    1,028.1    1,412.4      912.9      1,662.7    1,491.6    5,168.9    2,154.4    3,459.5          -     20,367.9
Subtotal Transportation and Installation           1,886.5    1,933.1    1,302.3    1,789.1     1.142.9     2,050.1    1,819.7    6,538.6    2,728.9    4,136.0          -     25,327.1
Subtotal Equipment and Machinery                    11,815.3    10,561.6    8,156.6    11,205.3    6,893.2   11,736.1    10,020.6   40,780.4    17,091.4   21,046.4        -    149,307.0
D.importDutyand VAT                                   805.3      805.3    1,061.2       805.3      805.3       805.3      805.3    6,280.9     2,186.2    4,831.5                19,191.8
F. Vehicles
1. Tnuck                                            307.7    1,132.7      489.5       693.5      413,9       413.9     1,132.7    1,118.7     950.9    2,609.3           -      9,262.9
2.Van                                                        -                -          -           -           -          -       139.8         -           -          -        139.8        0"
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                            363.6      279.7      363.6       363.6      279.7       279.7      279.7          -       279.7      149.1                 2,638.3
5. OtherVehide                                          -                                            -           -          -      265.7       167.8          -                  433.5
Subtotal Vehicles                                     671.2    1,412.4      853.0     1,057.1      693.6       693.6     1,412.4    1.524.3    1,398.4    2,758.4                12.474,6
G. TreininglStudy Tour
1.DomesticTraining                                  294.8      174.2      135.6       279.5      102,7       112.2      151.3      123.0       230.9      501.1          -      2,105.3
2. Overseas Training                                    -          -      374.0       374.0          -           -          -       80.1       374.0          -          -      1,202.0
Subtotal TraininglStudy Tour                          294.8      174.2      509.5       653.5      102.7       112.2      151.3      203.1       604.9      501.1          -      3,307.3
H. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consultant                                          -                -          -        15.0        15.0          -          -          -          -       132.0       162.1
2. tntematsonal Consultant                              -                                            -           -                1,174.7    1,237.6      343.0      368.0      3,123.2
Subtotal Technical Assistance                             -          -          -          -        15.0        15.0          -     1,174.7    1,237.6      343.0      500.0      3,285.3
I. Other
1. Project Overhead                                 553.7      458.3      373.6      499.0       235.9       586.6      490.1     1,382.7     877.4       997.3          -      6,454.5
3. Investment Tax                                       -          -          -          -          -            -          -      387.0          -       848.5                 1,235.5
4. Other                                            565.2      410.2      396.1       585.2         -        152.8      492.3    3,360.2      956.1     2,567.9          -      9,505.9
Subtotal Other                                       1,138.9     868.6      769.7    1,084.2       235.9       739.3      982.4    5,129.8     1,833.5    4,413.7          -     17195.9
Total InvestmentCosts                                20,618.2   18,288.3    15,168.7    19,646.1   9,735.0    21,174.6    19,173.9   60,355.9   35,057.9   48,981.1      500.0   268.699.8
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Working Capital                                   2,140.0    2,060.0    1,900.0    3,870.0    2,700.0     3,400.0     1,880.0    2,400.0    15,000.0    12,000.0        -     47,350.0
Total RecurrentCosts                                  2,140.0     2,060.0    1.900,0    3,870.0    2,700.0     3,400.0     1,880.0    2,400.0    15,000.0    12,000.0        -     47,350.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                   22,758.2   20,348.3    17,068.7   23,516.1    12,435.0    24,574.6   21,053.9   62,755.9   50,057.9   60,981.1     500.0   316,049.8
lb



01/17/97
China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
Institutional Development
Livestock Support Services
Provincial    County
Support     Support     Animal       Crop
Service     Service    Breeding     Support   Institutional
Programs    Programs     Centre      Services    Support       Total
I. Investment Costs
B. Works
1. Building                                             -           -           -       178.1            -      178.1
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                                  382.7       165.7            -       288.8            -      837.2
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment                -           -           -       735.1            -      735.1
3. Environmental Protection Equipment                   -           -           -        35.1            -        35.1
4. Laboratory Equipment                                 -           -           -        34.1            -        34.1
5. Office Equipment                                     -           -           -        81.0       675.5       756.4
6. Other Equipment                                      -           -      258.0
7. Transportaton and Installation
Transportation                                       -            -           -       47.0            -        47.0
Installation                                         -           -            -      176.1            -       176.1
Subtotal Transportaton and Installation                 -           -           -       223.1            -      223.1
Subtotal Equlpmentand Machinery                       382.7       165.7       258.0     1,397.2       675.5    2,879.1
D. Import Duty and VAT                                    -           -           -        99.8            -        99.8
E. Input and Material                                223.7            -       574.5            -           -      798.2
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                                -       18.9            -           -            -       18.9
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                            27.0     1,183.6            -           -        67.5    1,278.1
Subtotal Vehicles                                      27.0     1,202.5            -           -        67.5     1,297.0
G. TraininglStudy Tour
1. Domestic Training                                43.5       605.4            -      280.0        273.4     1,202.3
2. Overseas Training                                50.6       381.9            -           -            -      432.5
Subtotal TraininglStudy Tour                           94.1       987.3           -       280.0       273.4      1,634.8
H. Technical Assistance
1. Local Consultant                                 59.2         4.6            -           -           -        63.8
2. Intemational Consultant                         261.6        38.7         53.1                        -      353.4
SubtotalTechnicalAssistance                          320.7         43.3        53.1            -           -      417.1
I. Other                                                                                                                                        f
1. Project Overhead                                 62.6         7.2            -       47.3      4,251.3    4,368.5                         ,_  ,
TotallnvestmentCosts                                  1,110.9    2,405.9        885.6     2,002.5      5,267.7   11,672.6                          U'



01/17/97
China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(Yuan '000)
Institutional Development
Livestock Support Services
Provinclal    County
Support    Support      Animal       Crop
Service    Service     Breeding    Support   Institutional
Programs    Programs     Centre     Services    Support       Total
1. Investment Costs
B. Works
1. Building                                            -           -           -    1,723.4             -    1,723.4
C. Equipment and Machinery
1. Main Equipment                                3,701.9    1,602.7            -    2,794.0             -    8,098.6
2. Other Production/Processing Equipment               -           -           -    7,111.5             -    7,111.5
3. Environmental Protection Equipment                  -           -           -       339.5            -      339.5
4. Laboratory Equipment                                 -          -            -      330.3            -      330.3
5. Office Equipment                                    -           -           -       783.4     6,534.5    7,317.8
6. Other Equipment                                      -          -    2,531.7                         -                                       o
7. Transportaton and Installation
Transportation                                       -           -           -      454.3            -       454.3
Installation                                         -           -           -    1,703.8            -    1,703.8
Subtotal Transportation and Installation                -          -           -    2,158.1             -    2,158.1
Subtotal Equipmentand Machinery                    3,701.9    1,602.7    2,531.7   13,516.8    6,534.5   27,887.5
D. Import Duty and VAT                                    -           -           -      965.3            -      965.3
E. Input and Material                              2,313.9            -    5,576.6            -           -    7,890.5
F. Vehicles
1. Truck                                               -       182.8           -           -            -      182.8
4. Car/4WD Station Wagon                           261.1   11,450.0            -           -       652.8   12,363.9
Subtotal Vehicles                                    261.1   11,632.8             -           -      652.8   12,546.7
G. Training/Study Tour
1. Domestic Training                               438.9    5,966.9            -    2,828.7      2,709.4   11,944.0
2. Overseas Training                               505.4    3,694.3            -           -            -    4,199.6
Subtotal Tralning/Study Tour                         944.2    9,661.2             -    2,828.7     2,709.4   16,143.6
H. Technical Assistance                                                                                                                         3
1. Local Consultant                                586.3        44.8           -           -           -      631.1                          VI z
2. International Consultant                      2,639.3      380.9       549.0            -           -    3,569.3
Subtotal Technical Assistance                      3,225.6       425.7       549.0            -           -    4,200.3
1. Other
1. Project Overhead                               605.8         70.9           -      457.9   44,844.9   45,979.5
TotalInvestmentCosts                                 11,052.5   23,393.4    8,657.3   19,492.1    54,741.6  117,336.9



- 71-                                      ANNEX 3
Table 15
CHINA
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD                                 Disbursement                   Disbursement Profile a/
Fiscal Year/                   Semestral Cumulative Cumulative         Year/     Cumulative
Semester                            ($ Million)      (%)              Semester    (%)
1998                                                                       Year 1
First (Jul-Dec, 1997) bI                 8.0       8.0        7           First              0
Second (Jan-June, 1998)                 10.2      18.2        15          Second            30
1999                                                                       Year 2
First (Jul-Dec, 1998)                   10.2      28.4       24           First             38
Second (Jan-June, 1999)                 13.9      42.3        35          Second            46
2000                                                                       Year 3
First (Jul-Dec, 1999)                   14.6      56.9       47           First             54
Second (Jan-June, 2000)                20.5       77.4       65           Second            66
2001                                                                       Year 4
First (Jul-Dec, 2000)                   16.5      93.9       78           First             74
Second (Jan-June, 2001)                  9.6     103.5       86           Second            82
2002                                                                       Year 5
First (Jul-Dec, 2001)                   10.7     114.2       95           First             90
Second (Jan-June, 2002)                  3.1     117.3       98           Second            94
2003                                                                       Year 6
First (Jul-Dec, 2002)                    1.8     119.1       99           First             98
Second (Jan-June, 2003)                  0.9     120.0       100          Second            100
a/ Disbursement profile for agricultural sector in China compiled by OPRPG, June 30, 1995.
b/ Including retroactive financing of US$ 4 million to cover expenditure incurred between December 1, 1996 and
not more than one year before the signing of the Loan Agreement.
Completion date: June 30, 2002
Closing date: June 30, 2003



ANNEX 3
- 72 -                                   Table 16
Procurement of Equipment, Machinery and Materials
(USS'000)
Project Element                          ICB      NCB    OTHER  TOTAL
Equipment and Machinery                   39,100    13,500     4,800    57,400
Livestock Equipment                         500     1,200     1,700    3,400
Agroprocessing Equipment                 37,700    11,400      600    49,700
Institutional Development                   900       900      300     2,100
Lab and Office Equipment                                      2,200    2,200
0
Vehicles                                   3,400         0      500     3,900
Trucks                                     1,400                        1,400
Passenger Vehicles                        2,000                        2,000
Small Factory/Farm Vehicles                                    500       500
0
Animals                                        0         0   44,400    44,400
Breeding Stock                                                2,900    2,900
Dairy Cattle                                                 12,400    12,400
Fattening Animals                                            28,700    28,700
Aqucaculture                                                   400       400
Total                                    42,500    13,500    49,700   105,700
m:\hei1\an66.xIs



China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Mik Production: Four Cow Model Activity Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Yuan) /a
1          2           3           4          5           6          7           8          9        10 to 15
Revenue
Main Production
Milk                                         15,000.0    23,250.0    27,000.0    27,000.0    27,000.0    27,000.0    27,000.0    27,000.0    27,000.0    27,000.0
Cull Cow                                            -          -           -     2,700.0          -          -      2,700.0         -      5,400.0          -
Springing Heifer                                    -                6,400.0     3,200.0    3,200.0     6,400.0     6,400.0    6,400.0     3,200.0    3,200.0
Male Calf                                           -      272.0       272.0      272.0       272.0      272.0       272.0       272.0      272.0       272.0
Sub-total Main Production                      15,000 0    23,522.0    33,672.0    33,172.0    30,472.0    33,672.0    36,372.0    33,672.0    35,872.0    30,472.0
By Products
Manure                                           80.0      160.0       160.0      160.0       160.0      160.0       160.0       160.0      160.0       160.0
Sub-total Revenue                                15,080.0    23,682.0    33,832.0    33,332.0    30,632 0    33,832.0    36,532 0    33,832.0    36,032.0    30,632.0
Input costs
Investment costs
Dairy Farm Feed Shed                          1,467.7                -                -           -          -           -          -           -          -
Dairy Cattle Housing - 4 cows                 5,871.1
Mini Tractor                                    280.0
Silage silo - 4 cows                            636 0
Silage Chopper - Dairy Farms                     73.0          -           -          -           -          -
Dairy Cow                                    16,000.0          -           -          -           -          -           -                                                          _1
Milk Cans-Large                                 400.0          -           -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -                        W
Handcart                                        350.0
Working Capital-four dairy cattle             4,340.0          -           -          -           -          -           -          -
Sub-total Investment Costs                     29,417.8          -           -          -           -          -           -        '
Operating Costs
Dairy Catte Insurance                           800.0      800.0       800.0      800.0       800.0      800 0       800.0      800.0       800.0       800.0
Maize Grain                                   2,420.0     4,400.0    4,840.0     4,840.0    4,840.0     4,840.0    4,840.0     4,840 0     4,840.0    4,840.0
Soybean cake                                  1,440.0     2,916.0    3,240.0     3,240 0    3,240.0     3,240.0     3,240.0    3,240.0     3,240.0    3,240.0
Distillery Waste                              1,460.0     2,600.0    2,920.0     2,920.0    2,920.0     2,920 0     2,920.0    2,920.0     2,920.0    2,920.0
Grass hay                                     1,825.0     3,250.0    3,650.0     3,650.0    3,650.0     3,650.0     3,650.0    3,650.0     3,650.0    3,650.0
Whole Maize Silage                             1,095.0    1,950.0    2,190.0     2,190.0     2,190.0    2,190.0     2,190.0    2,190.0     2,190.0    2,190.0
Cattle Al                                       200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0       200.0      200.0       200 0       200.0      200.0       200.0
Veterinary Treatment                             40.0       40.0        40.0       40.0        40.0       40.0        40.0        40 0       40.0        40.0
Utilities - Cattle                              400.0      400.0       400.0      400.0       400.0      400.0       400.0      400.0       400.0      400.0
Dairy Building Maintenance                          -      350.0       350.0      350.0       350.0      350 0       350.0      350.0       350 0       350.0
Dairy Equipment Depreciation                    220.0      220.0       220.0      220.0       220.0      220.0       220.0      220.0       220.0      220.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                       9,900.0    17,126.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0
Sub-total Input costs                            39,317.8    17,126.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0    18,850.0
Income (Before Labor Costs)                     -24,237.8     6,556.0    14,982.0    14,482.0    11,782.0    14,982.0    17,682.0    14,982.0    17,182.0    11,782.0
Labor costs
Female Farm Labour                              1,280.0     1,280.0    1,280.0     1,280.0    1,280 0     1,280.0     1,280.0    1,280 0     1,280 0    1,280.0
Male farm labour                                  800.0      800.0       800.0      800.0       800.0      800.0       800.0      800.0       800.0      800.0
Sub-total Labor costs                             2,080.0     2,080.0    2,080.0     2,080.0    2,080.0     2,080.0    2,080.0     2,080.0    2,080.0     2,080.0
Income (After Labor Costs)                       -26,317.8    4,476.0    12,902.0    12,402.0   9,702.0    12,9020    15,602.0    12,902.0    15,102.0    9,702.0                    p 
D A-
ba Average per cow lactation yield of 5000 kg with annual yield of 4500 kg.



- 74 -                                  ANNEX4
Table 2
China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Cattle Fattening: Twenty Head Model Activity Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Yuan) la
1          2        3to15
Revenue
Main Production
Finished Beef Cattle                                       -    77,400.0   77,400.0
By Products
Manure                                                 300.0       450.0      450.0
Sub-total Revenue                                          300.0   77,850.0   77,850.0
input costs
investment costs
Yearling Male                                        25,200.0          -          -
Beef Cattle Housing - Twenty head                    14,677.2
Silage silo - Beef cattle                             1,272.0          -          -
Beef Cattle Store Housing - twenty cattle             1,510.0          -
Silage Chopper - Beef Farms                            146.0           -          -
Handcart                                               350.0           -          -
Working Capital-twenty fattening catIle              30,180.0          -          -
Sub-total Investment Costs                             73,335.2          -          -
Operating Costs
Yearling Male                                              -           -   25,200.0
Beef Cattle Insurance                                 1,260.0    1,260.0    1,260.0
Distillery Waste                                           -     8,000.0    8,000.0
Maize Grain                                                -     5,500.0    5,500.0
Soybean cake                                               -    9,000.0    9,000.0
Mineral/Vitamin mix                                        -       960.0      960.0
Whole Maize Silage                                         -     3,000.0    3,000.0
Grass hay                                                  -    2,000.0    2,000.0
Cattle vaccination                                         -        20.0       20.0
Velerinary Treatment                                       -       200.0      200.0
Utilities- livestock fattening                             -     1,000.0    1,000.0
Beef Cattle Building Maintenance                           -       875.0      875.0
Beef Equipment Depreciation                             80.0        80.0       80.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                               1,340.0   31,895.0   57,095.0
Sub-total Input costs                                    74,675.2   31,895.0   57,095.0
Income (Before Labor Costs)                             -74,375.2   45,955.0   20,755.0
Labor costs
Female Farm Labour                                           -     1,200.0    1,200.0
Male farm labour                                             -     1,200.0    1,200.0
Sub4otal Labor costs                                           -    2,400.0    2,400.0
Incomne (After Labor Costs)                             -74.375.2   43,555.0   18,355.0
ta Cattle purchased at 200 kg LW and fattened to 450 kg in 230 days.



- 75 -                                 ANNEX4
Table 3
China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Pig Fattening - Twenty Head per Cycle Activity Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Yuan) /a
1          2         3to16
Revenue
Main Production
Fattened Pig                                        15,092.0    30,184.0    30,184.0
By Products
Pig manure                                            400.0       800.0      800.0
Sub-total Revenue                                       15,492.0    30,984.0    30,984.0
Input costs
Investment costs
Fattening Pig Housing - Twenty pigs                  5,400.0          -          -
Fattening Pig Store House - Twenty Pigs             1,380.0
Weaned piglet                                        3,800.0
Feeding utensils                                      100.0
Handcart                                              350.0
Disease control equipment                             100.0
Working Capital-twenty fantening pigs                8,124.0
Sub-total Investment Costs                            19,254.0          -          -
Operating Costs
Maize Grain                                         4,840.0     9,680.0     9,680.0
Soybean cake                                         1,602.0    3,204.0     3,204.0
Soybean meal                                          550.0     1,100.0     1,100.0
Bone meal                                             187.0       374.0      374.0
MineraVVitamin mix                                    480.0       960.0      960.0
Salt                                                   60.0       120.0      120.0
Weaned piglet                                             -     7,600.0     7,600.0
Plastic sheet                                          40.0          -        20.0
Utilities - Fattening Pig                             200.0       400.0      400.0
Veterinary Treatment                                  200.0       400.0      400.0
Pig building maintenance                                  -       320.0      320.0
Pig equipment depreciation                            110.0       110.0      110.0
Pig insurance                                         400.0       400.0      400.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                              8,669.0   24,668.0    24,688.0
Sub-total Input costs                                   27,923.0    24,668.0   24,688.0
Income (Before Labor Costs)                            -12,431.0    6,316.0     6,296.0
Labor costs
Female Farm Labour                                      400.0       800.0      800.0
Male farm labour                                        160.0       320.0      320.0
Sub-total Labor costs                                     560.0     1,120.0     1,120.0
Income (After Labor Costs)                             -12,991.0    5,196.0     5,176.0



- 76 -                               ANNEX4
Table 4
China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Goose Fattening: Two Hundred Head Activity Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Yuan)
1       2to15
Revenue                                       4,800.0    4,800.0
Input costs
Investment costs
Geese Housing - 200 head model              800.0          -
Crossbred gosling                          1,272.0         -
Working Capital-200 geese                  1,080.0         -
Sub-total Investment Costs                   3,152.0         -
Operating Costs
Crossbred gosling                               -    1,272.0
Gosling feed                                572.4      572.4
Maize Grain                                1,683.0    1,683.0
Utilities - Crossgred goslings              212.0      212.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                    2,467.4    3,739.4
Sub-total Input costs                          5,619.4    3,739.4
Income (Before Labor Costs)                    -819.4    1,060.6
Labor costs
Female Farm Labour                           1,040.0    1,040.0
Income (After Labor Costs)                    -1,859.4      20.6



China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Sulhua Stud fox farm Activity Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(in Yuan)
1            2           3         4 to 5      6 to 8     9 to 10    il to 13     14 to 15
Revenue
Breeding Dog                                                      -   540,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0
Breeding Vixen                                                    -   540,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0  1.620,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0  1,620,000.0
Fox skin - medium quality                                         -   675,000.0  1,350,000.0  1,350,000.0  1,350,000.0  1,350,000.0  1,350,000.0  1,350,000.0
Sub-total Revenue                                                      1,755,000.0  4,590,000.0  4,590,000.0  4,590,000.0  4,590,000.0  4,590,000.0  4.590,000.0
Input costs
Investment costs
Breeding dog                                             288,000.0          -           -           -
Breeding Vixen                                          1,152,000.0
Fox Breeding Stud Civil Works                           2,171,000.0
Fox Breeding Stud Environment Protection Works           363,000.0
Fox Breeding Stud Equipment                             3,519,500.0
Fox Breeding Stud TA and Training                        100,000.0
Fox Breebng Stud Design and Supervision                  332,400.0
Working Capital - Fox Breeding Stud                      230,000.0   460,000.0          -           -           -           -           -           -
Sub-total Investment Costs                               8,155,900.0   460,000.0          -           -           -           -           -           -
Operating Costs
Fox feed                                                        -   360,000.0   640,000.0   640,000.0   640,000.0   640,000.0   640,000.0   640,000.0
Fox veterinary care                                             -      4,000.0    20,000.0    20,000.0    20,000.0    20,000.0    20,000.0    20,000.0
Fox breeding utilities                                          -    40,000.0    40,000.0    40,000.0    40,000.0    40,000.0    40,000.0    40,000.0
Fox Breeding Stud 0 & M                                         -   475,000.0   475,000.0   475,000.0   475,000.0   475,000.0   475,000.0   475,000.0
Breeding dog                                                    --                      -   144,000.0           -    144,000.0          -    144,000.0
Breeding Vixen                                                  -                       -   576,000.0           -   576,000.0           -   576,000.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                                         -   879,000.0  1,175,000.0  1,895,000.0  1,175.000.0  1,895,000.0  1,175,000.0  1,895,000.0
Sub-total Input costs                                      8,155,900.0  1,339,000.0  1,175,000.0  1,895,000.0  1,175,000.0  1,895,000.0  1,175,000.0  1,895,000.0
Income (Before Labor Costs)                                -8,155,900.0   416,000.0  3,415,000.0  2,695,000.0  3,415,000.0  2,695,000.0  3,415,000.0  2,695,000.0
Labor costs
Enterprise Management                                        2,700.0     2,700.0     2,700.0    2,700.0     2,700.0     2,700.0     2,700.0     2,700.0
Enterprise labour                                                 -       340.0       340.0       340.0       340.0       340.0       340.0       340.0
Casual labour                                                     -    23,700.0    23,700.0    23,700.0    23,700.0    23,700.0    23,700.0    23,700.0
Sub-total Labor costs                                          2,700.0    26,740.0    26,740.0    26,740.0    26,740.0    26,740.0    26,740.0    26,740.0
Income (After Labor Costs)                                -8,158,600.0   389,260.0  3,388,260.0  2,668,260.0  3,388,260.0  2,668,260.0  3,388,260.0  2,668,260.0
t-n -P



CMna
Hebongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Four Dairy Cow Farm Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET (AGGREGATE
(In Yuan)                              Without Project                                                    With Project
1 to 15        1           2           3           4           5           6           7           8            9        10-15
Main Production
CropProducts                              10,570.0    10,570.0    11,098.5    11,098.5    11,098.5    11,098.5    11,098.5    11,098.5    11,098.5    11,098.5   11,098.5
Livestock Products                              -     15,000.0    23,522.0    33,672.0   33',172.0    30,472.0    33,672.0    36,372.0    33,672.0    35,872.0   30,472.0
Sub-total Main Production                   10,570.0    25,570.0    34,620.5    44,770.5    44,270.5    41,570.5    44,T70.5    47,470.5    44,770.5    46,970.5   41,570,5
By Products
Crop Products                               200.0       200.0       200.0      200.0        200.0       200.0       200.0       200.0       200.0       200.0      200.0
Livestock Products                              -        80.0       160.0      160.0        160.0       160.0       160.0       160.0        160.0      160.0      160.0
Sub-total Byproducts                           200.0       280.0       360.0      360.0       360.0        360.0       360.0       360.0       360.0       360.0     360 0
Gross Value Of Production                   10,770.0    25,850.0    34,980.5    45,130.5    44,630.5    41,930.5    45,130.5     47,830.5    45,130.5    47,330.5   41,930.5
On-Farm Use
Crop Products                                   -      2,420.0    4,400.0     4,840.0     4,840.0      4,840.0     4,840.0     4,840.0     4,840.0     4,840.0    4,840.0
Livestock Products                              -        80.0       160.0      1160.0         60.0      160.0       160.0       160.0       160.0       160.0      160.0
Sub-Total On-Farm Use                             -      2,500.0     4,560.0     5,000.0     5,000.0     5,000.0     5,000.0     5,000.0     5,000.0     5,000.0    5,000,0
Sales Tax \a                                               750.0     1,176.1     1,683.6     1,658.6     1,523.6     1,683.6      1,818.6     1,683.6    1,793.6    1,523.6
NetValueOfProduction                        10,770.0    22,600.0    29,244.4    38,446.9    37,971.9    35,406.9    38,446.9    41,011.9    38,446.9    40,536.9   35,406.9
Production Cost
Investment
Livestock Inputs                             -    29,417.8                 -           -                 -           -            -           -                          O
Operating
Livestock Inputs                             -      7,480.0    12,726.0    14,010.0    14,010,0    14,010.0    14,010.0     14,010.0    14,010.0    14,010.0   14,010.0
Livestock Products                        240.0       160.0       120.0      120.0        120.0       120.0       120.0       120.0       120.0       120.0      120.0
Crop Inputs                             3,938.0     3,938.0     3,772.8     3,772.8     3,772.8     3,772.8     3,772.8      3,772.8     3,772.8    3,772.8    3,772 8
Hired Labor                                  -        320.0       320.0      320.0        320.0       320.0       320.0       320.0       320.0       320.0      320.o
Sub-total Operating Costs                  4,178.0    11,898.0    16,938.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8   18.222.8
Sub-Total Production Cost                    4,178.0    41,315.8    16,938.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8     18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8   18,222.8
OUTFLOWS                                   4,178.0    41,315.8    16,938.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222.8    18,222 8    18,222.8    18,222.8   18,222.8
Cash Flow Before Financing                   6,592.0   -18,715.8    12,305.7    20,224.2    19,749.2    17,184.2    20,224.2    22,789.2    20,224.2    22,314.2   17.184.2
IRR= 42.7%              NPV= 47,146.3
\a Based on 5% of net value of livestock products.
m
M 41



- 79 -                          ANNEX4
Table 7
China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Twenty Cattle Fattening Farm Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Yuan)                              Without Project           With Project
I to15         1           2         3to15
Main Production
Crop Products                             10,570.0    10,570.0    11,627.0    11,627.0
Livestock Products                              -           -    77,400.0    77,400.0
Sub-total Main Production                   10,570.0    10,570.0    89,027.0    89,027.0
By Products
Crop Products                               200.0       200.0       200.0       200.0
Livestock Products                              -       300.0       450.0      450.0
Sub-total Byproducts                           200.0       500.0       650.0      650.0
Gross Value Of Production                   10,770.0    11,070.0    89,677.0    89,677.0
On-Farm Use
Crop Products                                   -           -      5,500.0    5,500.0
Livestock Products                              -       240.0       320.0       320.0
Sub-Total On-Farm Use                              -       240.0     5,820.0     5,820.0
On-Farm Consumption
Crop Products                               140.0       140.0       140.0       140.0
Sales Tax Xa                                       -         3.0     3,876.5     3,876.5
Net Value Of Production                      10,630.0    10,687.0    79,840.5    79,840.5
Production Cost
Investment
Livestock Inputs                              -    73,335.2           -          -
Operating
Livestock Products                        240.0           -           -          -
Livestock Inputs                              -      1,340.0    26,395.0    51,595.0
Crop Inputs                             3,938.0     3,938.0     3,607.5     3,607.5
Hired Labor                                   -           -       240.0      240.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                  4,178.0     5,278.0    30,242.5    55,442.5
Sub-Total Production Cost                    4,178.0    78,613.2    30,242.5    55,442.5
OUTFLOWS                                   4,178.0    78,613.2    30,242.5    55,442.5
Cash Flow Before Financing                   6,452.0   -67,926.2    49,598.0    24,398.0
IRR= 31.8%              NPV= 59,884.7
\a Based on 5% of net value of livestock products.



- 80  -                        ANNEX4
Table 8
China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Twenty Fattening Pig Farm Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Yuan)                               Without Project           With Project
1to15          1            2        3to15
Main Production
Crop Products                             10,570.0    10,570.0    11,098.5    11,098.5
Livestock Products                               -    15,092.0    30,184.0    30,184.0
Sub-total Main Production                    10,570.0    25,662.0    41,282.5    41,282.5
By Products
Crop Products                                200.0       200.0       200.0       200.0
Livestock Products                               -       400.0       800.0       800.0
Sub-total Byproducts                           200.0        600.0     1,000.0     1,000.0
Gross Value Of Production                    10,770.0    26,262.0    42,282.5    42,282.5
On-Fanm Use
Crop Products                                    -     4,840.0     8,662.5     8,662.5
On-Farm Consumption
Crop Products                                140.0       140.0       140.0       140.0
Sales Tax \a                                       -        774.6     1,549.2     1,549.2
Net Value Of Production                      10,630.0    20,507.4    31,930.8    31,930.8
Production Cost
Investment
Livestock Inputs                              -    19,254.0           -
Operating
Crop Products                                 -           -      1,017.5     1,017.5
Livestock Products                        240.0       240.0        280.0      280.0
Livestock Inputs                              -      3,829.0    14,988.0    15,008.0
Crop Inputs                              3,938.0     3,938.0     3,772.8     3,772.8
Sub-total Operating Costs                  4,178.0     8,007.0    20,058.3    20,078.3
Sub-Total Production Cost                     4,178.0    27,261.0    20,058.3    20,078.3
OUTFLOWS                                   4,178.0    27,261.0    20,058.3    20,078.3
Cash Flow Before Financing                    6,452.0    -6,753.6    11,872.6    11,852.6
IRR= 40.6%              NPV= 20,185.7
\a Based on 5% of net value of livestock products.



- 81 -                        ANNEX4
Table 9
China
Helongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Two Hundred Goose Farm Model
FINANCIAL BUDGET
(In Yuan)                                 Without Project      With Project
I to15           1         2to15
Main Production
Crop Products                                10,570.0     10,570.0    10,570.0
Livestock Products                                 -      4,800.0      4,800.0
Sub-total Main Production                       10,570.0    15,370.0     15,370.0
By Products
Crop Products                                  200.0        200.0       200.0
Gross Value Of Production                       10,770.0    15,570.0     15,570.0
On-Farm Use
Crop Products                                      -       1,683.0     1,683.0
Sales Tax %a                                          -        240.0       240.0
Net Value Of Production                         10,770.0    13,647.0     13,647.0
Production Cost
Investment
Livestock Inputs                                 -      3,152.0           -
Operating
Livestock Products                           240.0       240.0        240.0
Livestock Inputs                                 -        784.4     2,056.4
Crop Inputs                                3,938.0      3,938.0     3,938.0
Hired Labor                                      -         80.0        80.0
Sub-total Operating Costs                     4,178.0     5,042.4      6,314.4
Sub-Total Production Cost                        4,178.0     8,194.4      6,314.4
OUTFLOWS                                      4,178.0     8,194.4      6,314.4
Cash Flow Before Financing                      6,592.0      5,452.6      7,332.6
IRR= 64.9%               NPV= 3,365.6
\a Based on 5% of net value of livestock products.



cF~
Hblon-lang Agricultural Developnent Ptect
Su,tA Fox Stud BrtedA Fanm Fam nmodel
FINANCIAL BUDGET
in Yuan)                                  Wtthout Project                                                                     With Project
1toiS           1             2            3           4            5           S            7           8           9           10        11to13       14tolS
Main Productlion
Liveslodx Products                                  -            -   1.755.000.0   4,590,000.0  4,590,0000   4,590,000.0  4,590,000.0  4,590.000.0  4,590,000.0  4,590,00.0  4,590.000.0   4.590,000.0  4,590,000.0
Sub-total Main Production                             -             -   1.755,000.0   4,590,N00.0  4,590,000.0  4.590.000.0  4,590,000.0  4,590,0000  4.590,000.   4,590,000.0  4.590,000.0   4.590.000.0  4,590,00 0
Sales Tax %a                                          -             -     87,750 0     229,500.0   229,500.0    229500.0    229,500.0   229,50 0    229,50.0    229,500.0   229,500.0    229.500.0   229,500.0
Production Coal
Investnient
Livesiock Inputs                                 -   8.155,900.0    460,000.0            -           -                        -           .            -                                    -  
Operab'ng
Livestock Inputs                                 -             -    879,000.0   1,175,N000.   1,895,0000   1.895,000.0  1,175,00.0  1.175,000.0  1.175,000.0  1,895.000.0  1,895,000.0   1,175,000.0  1.895.000.0
Hired Labor                                      -       2,700.0      26,740.0     26,740.0    26,740.0    26,740.0    26,740.0    26,7400      26.7400      26,740.0    26,7400      26,7400     26.7400
Sub-total Operating Costs                                   2,700.0    905,740.0   1.201,740.0  1,921,740.0  1,921.740.0  1.201,740.0  1,201.740.0  1.201.740.0  1.921,740.0  1,921,740.0   1,201,740.0  1,921,740.0
Sub-Total Production Cost                                  8,158,600.0   1.365.740.0   1.201.7400   1.921,740.0  1,921,740.0  1.201.740.0  1.201,7400   1.201.740.0  1.921.7400  1,921.7400    1.201.740.0  1.921.7400
OUTFLOWS                                            -   8,158.600.0   1,365,740.0   1,201.740.0  1.921.740.0  1,921,740.0  1.201,7400   1.201.740.0  1,201,740.0  1.921.740.0  1,921,740.0   1,201,7400  1.921.740.0
Cash Flow Before Financing                            -   -8,158.60.0    301,510.0   3,158,760.0  2,438,760.0  2,438,760.0  3,158,7600  3,158.760.0  3,158,760.0  2.438,760.0  2,438,760.0   3,158.760.0  2.438.760.0
IRR= 27.0%              NPV= 7,494,870.5
\e Based on 5% of net value of livestDck products.
1F_>
ID 
0
I- 41



- 83 -                             ANNEX 5
China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Production and Prices
Summary of Major Output
Ex-factory,Ex-farm
Product                      Unit     Quantity         Price
(yuan)
1. Crop Processing
Glucose                                           ton          10,000            6,800
Acetyl propionic acid                            ton             510            40,000
Bio-degradable polymers                          ton           6,000            14,000
Whole-sugar powder                               ton            2,800            4,000
Mungbean powder                                  ton            1,000           19,500
Rinse-free rice                                  ton           17,600            5,100
Quality rice                                     ton           23,300            3,600
Salad oil                                        ton             940            14,700
High gluten flour                                 ton          3,500             5,100
Low gluten flour                                 ton           14,000            3,560
Special flour                                    ton            7,500            3,250
Grade flour                                      ton           11,000            2,650
Bran                                             ton           13,500            1,300
Modified starch                                  ton           6,000             9,600
Epoxy soybean oil                                ton           2,000            14,500
Cooking oil                                      ton            3,240            9,700
Flax elite                                       ton           5,019             4,500
Sea buckthorn oil                                ton              50           500,000
Concentrated sea buckthorn juice                 ton            1,040           12,000
Sorbitol (70%)                                    ton          14,500            6,850
Molasses                                          ton           5,223            2,000
2. Livestock Processing
Dressed geese carcass                            ton           6,900             7,400
Geese cut parts                                  ton            5,100            8,640
Feather                                           ton            180            38,500
Eiderdown                                        ton             105           506,000
UHT fresh milk                                   ton           6,000             8,800
Pig side                                          ton          7,000            11,700
Pig cut parts                                    ton           3,000            22,000
Meat product                                     ton             600            21,000
Beef cut part                                    ton           5,000            20,350
Cattle hide                                      piece         30,000             300
3. Aquaculture
Common Carp                                      ton           5,740            11,500
Grass Carp                                       ton             440             9,000
Silver Carp                                      ton            1,700            7,000
Big-head Carp                                    ton             980             7,000
4. Livestock Production
Fresh Milk                                      000 litre     99,000             1,500
Live Beef Cattle                                 head         117,400            4,050
Live Pig                                         head         108,220             770
Live Geese                                      000 bird       5,700            21,000
Breeding Fox                                     head           1,800            1,800
Fox Skin                                         piece          1,800             750



-84 -                       ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
LIVESTOCK COMPONENT
Base Conditions
1.    The basic model used in the analysis is for a 2 ha farm, of which 1.6 ha is cropped
annually to maize (1 ha), soybean (0.4 ha) and wheat (0.2 ha). Farm labor availability is
estimated at 500 person days, of which about 200 are used for crop production. The
addition of a livestock activity to the farm raises crop yields by up to 5 percent through the
introduction of additional manure to the farming system and reduces the requirement for
chemical fertilizers.
Crop                           Yield w/o project (t/ha)
Maize                                               7.5
Soybean                                             2.0
Wheat                                               2.0
2.    The following table shows the gross and net value of production from 1.6 ha
without the project.
w/o project (Y)
Gross value of production
Crops                                              10,630
Crop by-products                                      200
Cost of production
Land preparation                                    1,280
Seed                                                 560
Manure                                               324
DAP                                                 1,134
Urea                                                 600
Crop spraying                                        280
Net value of production (before labor)                 6,452
Pig Breeding and Production
3.    Pig Breeding. The model assumes a 19 sow/one boar piggery. Pure lean breed
stock would be housed in separate stalls in a 132 m2 building. Sows would be purchased at
6-8 months and 80-100 kg live weight. Other investments include a 15 m  feed shed,



- 85 -                     ANNEX6
feeding equipment, a hand cart and a spray unit. Sows would be fed a base mix of corn,
wheat bran and soybean meal fed in an approximately 5:3:1 ratio, supplemented with a
vitamin/mineral mix, salt limestone and bonemeal. All sow feed would be mixed on-farm
using own resources where available. The project investment model estimates an annual
production of 17 weaned and vaccinated 18-20 kg piglets per sow per year sold to farmers
at Y 220 each. Piglets would consume 25 kg of a commercial piglet ration through to
weaning. Sows would be replaced every other year and boars (one boar to 19 sows) every
three years. Provision has been made in the budget for veterinary care, utilities and
livestock insurance (5 percent of the value of the animals). Working capital, estimated at
Y 20,820 is capitalized into the loan. Incremental labor input has been estimated at 340
person days per year. It is estimated that 341 specialized households would be involved in
pig breeding.
4.    Pig Fattening-10 Head. Piglets, purchased at 18-20 kg liveweight, would be
housed in a facility providing 2.35 m2 per head including walkways.  Additional
investments would include an 11.5 m feed store room, feed utensils, sterilizing equipment,
and a hand cart. Working capital of Y 4030, covering one cycle of production, would be
provided and capitalized into the loan. Pigs would be fed a base mix of corn, soybean cake,
and soybean meal in an approximate 16:4:1 ratio, supplemented with a vitamin/mineral
mix, salt and bonemeal. The estimated feed conversion ratio is 3.7:1, with all feed mixed
on the farm. Animals would be fattened in two cycles of 10 pigs each per year to 100 kg
liveweight with estimated 5 percent losses. Sale price is assumed to be Y 7.7/kg. Provision
is made for veterinary treatment, utility costs and livestock insurance. Incremental labor is
estimated at 90 person days per year. Availability of animal manure is expected to lead to
production increases of 10 percent for wheat. Projected production is based on participation
of 1,837 families.
5.    Pig Fattening-20 Head. Piglets, purchased at 18-20 kg liveweight, would be
housed in a facility providing 2.25 m2 per head including walkways. Additional investment
is the same as for the 10 head piggery. Working capital of Y 8,124 (covering one cycle of
production) would be provided and capitalized into the loan. The same feeding regimen,
conversion ratios, and output assumptions as for the 10 head model are adopted.
Incremental labor is estimated at 140 person days per year. Availability of animal manure
is expected to lead to 5 percent increase in maize, soybean and wheat production. It is
assumed that 1,837 families would participate.
Cattle Fattening
6.    Cattle Fattening-10 Head. The project would provide for construction of
housing (6 m2 per head including walkways), a 10 m2 feed store, a green silage pit of about
21 m3 capacity and a hand cart. Groups of up to 30 farmers would collectively own a
motorized maize stover chopper. Working capital of Y 15,090 would be provided to cover
the operating cost of the first full year of operation. Cattle would be purchased between
weaning and yearling age at 200 kg liveweight and reared to 425-450 kg over a 230 day
period (0.9-1.0 kg/day) for sale at Y 9/kg. Feed rations, on a dry matter basis, would



- 86 -                      ANNEX6
include maize silage (24 percent), grass hay (22.5 percent), brewers/distillers waste
(22.5 percent), maize  grain  (15.5  percent), soybean  cake  (15.5 percent), and
vitamin/minerals (2 percent). Feed conversion rates have been estimated at 7.8 kg dry feed
intake for 1 kg liveweight gain. All animals would be vaccinated and drenched on arrival.
A 25 percent spread on liveweight buying and selling price, and a margin of 5 percent for
losses has been allowed. Livestock insurance and building operation and maintenance costs
have been included. Incremental labor input is estimated at 160 person days per year.
Availability of animal manure is expected to lead to production increases of 5 percent in
corn, soybean and wheat. It is estimated that 2,160 farm families would participate.
7.    Cattle Fattening-20 Head. The project would provide for construction of
housing (5 m2 per head including walkways), a 10 m2 feed store, a green silage pit of
about 42 m3 capacity and a hand cart. Groups of up to 30 farmers would collectively own
a motorized maize stover chopper. Working capital of Y 30,180 would be provided to
cover the operating cost of the first full year of operation. Other production parameters as
for the smaller herd apply. Incremental labor input is estimated at 300 person days per
year. Availability of animal manure is expected to lead to production increases of
10 percent in corn, soybean and wheat. This model is assumed to apply to 5,045 farm
families.
Dairy Farming
8.    Two and four cow dairy farm models are proposed. In all cases, farmers would
supply product to local milk collection plants.
9.    The project would provide 2-4 in-calf two year old heifers, a bam providing 10 m2
space per animal for 4-cow bams and 15.4 m2 for 2-cow bams, a 9.4 m  feed shed, a silage
pit of 14.7 m3 (for 2 cows) or 21.2 m3 (for 4 cows), milk cans and a hand cart. Groups of up
to 30 farmers would share a motorized maize stover chopper. Larger associations of about
40 participating farmers would share a mini tractor. Working capital covering up to
12.5 percent of the first full year's operating cost would be provided and capitalized into the
loan. The models are based on first calving at 30 months, a 14-month calving interval, and
an average lactational yield of 5,000 liters, with 500 liters for the calf and 4,500 liters
commercial production. Milk is priced at Y 1.5/liter. Principal feed inputs would include
corn, maize silage, grass hay, soybean cake and distillers waste. Livestock Production
Efficiency Calculator software (proprietary software developed by Pan Livestock, Reading
University, UK) has been used to determine herd feed requirements. Allowance has been
made for utilities, breeding and veterinary costs. Insurance against loss of cattle has been
included at 5 percent of stock value to minimize risk for low income participants.
Incremental labor inputs are estimated at 40 person days of female labor and 25 person days
of male labor per cow per year. The availability of animal manure is expected to lead to
production increases of 5 percent for soybean and wheat in each model and increases of
5 percent for corn in the four cow models, respectively. Estimated production is based on
the assumption that 1,870 families would raise two cows and 4.565 families would raise
four cows.



-87 -                      ANNEX 6
Goose Production
10.   The project would establish a vertically integrated goose breeding program and
expand/improve existing smallholder goose fattening programs. The breeding program
would include the maintenance and continuous performance testing of one Grandparent
(GP) line of an imported meat-type goose (the Laine) and one GP line of an indigenous high
fertility meat-type goose (the Liaoning Fissured-eye). The central breeding program would
also monitor the performance of other domestic goose lines as part of a provincial research
program. Parent Laine and Fissured-eye stock would be sold as vaccinated chicks to
smallholder crossbreeding farmers who would in turn sell crossbred eggs to county
hatcheries. These hatcheries would sell vaccinated crossbred stock to project smallholder
goose farmers in lots of 100 to 200 head. In the financial analysis of the aggregated goose
project, the provincial breeding program has been treated as a production cost and the
crossbreeding and hatchery programs as intermediary goods. Only the benefits of the
smallholder fattening farms are treated as project benefits.
11.   A critical component of this supply chain will be the pricing of the three main
products--parent breeding stock, crossbred eggs, and goslings. For this analysis, these
products have been priced at levels above existing market prices on the basis of their
improved quality and productivity; prices used are internally consistent and allow profit at
each stage. The production advantages from this new technology would likely lead to early
adoption by farmers.
12.   Provincial Parent Breeding Program. The  Center would raise GP lines of
imported Laine and domestic Fissured Eye geese and breed and sell Parent stock of both
lines to specialized household goose cross-breeders. The Center would include GP rearing
(3,900 m ) and housing (4,400 m ) sheds, a feed store/mixing shed (150 m2), a farm office
(160 m2), a hatchery (250 m2), boiler room (30 m 2), and a power substation (20 m2). The
buildings would be enclosed by a perimeter wall (850 m) and a biological fence (7 km)
would be constructed to protect the grazing area. Farm access and internal transport roads
(6,000 m2) would also be constructed. Provision has been made for the purchase of
15 incubators of 10,000 egg capacity each, 5 rearing chambers, generators, boiler, vehicles
and miscellaneous farm tools and equipment. Initial breeding stock, to be purchased over
two years, includes 4,800 Laine GP goslings and 12,800 Fissured Eye GP goslings. The
working capital requirement, spread over two years and capitalized into the loan, will be
Y 1.64 million (base cost). The Center will produce about 296,000 Parent goslings for sale
at Y 25 each to specialized crossbreeding households.
13.   Smallholder Crossbreeding. The project would provide for construction of a
cement floored goose shed (62.5 m ) to house 250 Parent breeding stock (purchased from
the Center), together with necessary feeders, waterers, disease control equipment and farm
tools. Working capital spread over two years would amount to Y 7,000 per farm and would
be capitalized into the loan. The model provides for 6 percent loss and 80 eggs produced
per goose per year, of which 52 (65 percent) would be produced in the breeding season.
The cross-breeding farm would produce 15,040 eggs annually, of which an estimated 8,310



- 88 -                     ANNEX6
would be sold (Y 2.2 each) to county hatcheries for setting. Breeding stock would be held
for 270 days and replaced annually. Parent stock would be maintained in pens (not grazed
for health reasons) and would be fed a proprietary goose feed mix (100 gm/day) together
with cut forage. The crossbreeding enterprise would employ an estimated 250 days of labor
per year. It is assumed that 970 specialized households will participate.
14.   County Hatcheries. Each hatchery would include a 234 m2 hatchery, office
(50 m 2), garage (50 m2), generator room (20 m 2) and perimeter wall (150 m). The hatchery
would accommodate sixteen 10,000 egg incubators, 4 rearing chambers, and would be
supplied with egg transportation equipment and a communications system. The project
would also provide for generators, transformer, vehicles, utility connection and equipment
installation. The annual output is estimated at 520,720 crossbred goslings per year. The
hatchery would employ a manager, 7 technicians, and 250 person months of casual labor
per year. Nine counties would receive hatcheries.
15.   Goose Fattening-100 and 200 Head Farms.  Immature crossbred stock,
purchased from county-based hatcheries at a price of Y 5.5 each, would be fed
1.5 kg/head of a premixed goose starter over the first month, after which they would be
grazed daily and fed corn meal (about 4 kg/bird) or an equivalent agricultural by-product
supplement, dependent on availability. Under improved management, the ration is likely
to also include soybean cake or wheat bran and bone meal. Corn and potato leaf and
vegetable tops will also be used as a forage supplement. By the slaughter age of 5-6
months, geese would weight 4 kg. Finished birds, slaughtered in October/November,
would fetch a price of Y 6/kg. It is expected that 33,300 farm families would participate
in the project, with the 100 and 200 head farms evenly divided between participants.
Fox Production
16.   An existing privately operated nucleus fox breeding farm would be upgraded and
expanded. The nucleus farm will supply 1,800 breeding foxes annually to contract
smallholder fox breeders. As the contract breeders are not directly supported by the project,
their benefits have not been included in the financial analysis.
17.   Fox Breeding Stud Farm.  Investments would include fox rearing sheds
(5,000 m2), feed processing workshop (162 m2), feed warehouse (112 m2), feed cold store
(144 m2), veterinary clinic (40 m2), substation (20 m2), pump (20 mi2) and boiler houses
2        (o2                    2
(40 mi), garage (90 in), guard room (48 mi), offices (94 m) and farmer training center
(58 m2). The production unit would be enclosed by a brick security wall (I km) and
serviced by a sealed access road. Provision is also made for drainage and septic tanks.
Equipment inputs would include a set of feed processing equipment, 5,000 fox pens built to
EU standards, veterinary and simple laboratory equipment and supplies, skin framing
equipment, office equipment, work clothes, and utilities. Provision is made for 400
imported stud silver foxes. Allowance is also made for staff training and 12-person months
of national expert technical assistance. Working capital, capitalized into the loan, would
amount to Y 9.69 million, split over the first two years. Breeding sets of four females and



- 89 -                    ANNEX6
one male would be kept. Breeding stock would be fed 0.5 kg of farm-prepared feed daily.
Annual production is estimated at 7 immature foxes per breeding female, each producing a
skin valued at Y 750. Provision is also made for utilities, veterinary care and equipment
and building maintenance.  Breeding sets would be kept for three seasons before
replacement. Labor inputs are 3 management positions, 17 permanent labor positions and
79-person years of casual labor annually.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
Main Conversion Factors d/
Standard Conversion Factor a/                                            1.00
Machinery/Equipment b/                                                   1.20
Electricity                                                              1.10
Transport - Road                                                         0.96
- Rail                                                         1.07
Labor     - Rural Unskilled c/                                           0.90
- Technician and Skilled                                       1.30
Building                                                                 1.10
Other Works                                                              1.12
a/ SCF = (Official Exchange Rate)/(Shadow Exchange Rate) = 1 based on EA2CO
April, 1996.
b/ For Locally manufactured machinery and equipment procured locally.
c/ While most project analysis in China values rural unskilled labor at the prevailing
market wage, this analysis uses the nominal wage in project areas adjusted by a
conversion factor of 0.90. This shadow wage reflects the fact that Heilongjiang
continues to face significant distortions in its internal labor market, as it has not
benefited from the loosening of rural-urban migration, the rapid growth of rural non-state
enterprises, and the consequent greater labor mobility found in the more developed
labor markets of southern and eastern China. As a result, except for the peak seasons
of planting and harvesting, there is a surplus of agricultural workers with little alternative
employment opportunities, leading to a marginal value product of labor below market
wages during the off-season when many project activities are implemented.
d/ Other conversion factors are calculated based on the estimated
economic prices and the prices used in the cost budget.



Border Prices for Primary Products and Inputs
(In 1996 Constant Prices) a/
Soybe-
Corn       Rice      Soybean       Wmeat        Oil        Sugar      Beef        Pork       Urea       DAP
Ne Trade Status                                             M           M          X            M            X          M          M          X          M           M
1996 Prices                                                ton         ton        ton         ton          ton         ton        ton        ton         ton        ton
WorldMarketPrice(USitt)                                        114        325        282           159         616        225       2,411      1,707        176        205
Ocean Freight (US$St)                                          28          26         30            50          60         30         40         40          38         38
CIF or FOB Dalian (USS/)                                      142         351        252           209        676         255      2,451       1,667       214         243
ClForFOBDalian(Yuan/t)b/                                     1,179      2,917      2,093          1,732      5,613      2,120     20,347      13,832      1,777      2,015
PortChargesandDistributoesMargin(Yuan/t)c/                    131        288        (213)          181        (530)       216       1,856     (1,270)       185        206
Transport:  -Port to Wholesaler (Yuant) d/                      14         14        (14)           14         (26)        26         22         (22)       22          22
-Millto Wholesaler(Yuan/t)e/                        72         72         (72)           72        (72)        72         216       (216)       216        216
Ex-factory Prine                                             1,416      3,291      1,794         2,023       4,985      2,434     22,441      12,325      2,200      2,459
Processing Adjustment                                        100%         70%       100%          100%        95%        100%       100%       100%        100%       100%
Processing Costs                                                          60
By-product Value                                               31         53         168            84
Mill-gate Value                                              1,447      2,296      1,962          1,939      4,736      2,434     22,441     12,325       2,200      2,459
Transport-FarmmtoMillf/                                        12          12         12            12          12         12         36         36          12         12
Economic Farm-gate Price                                     1,435      2,284      1,950          1,951      4,724      2,446     22,477      12,289      2,212      2,471
Financial Farm-gate Price g/                                 1,150      2,000      2,300          1,600      5,490      4,600     20,350      11,700      2,500      2,700                           1
Conversion Factor                                             1.25       1.14       0.85           122        0.86       0.53       1.10        105        0.88       0.92                          %D
2005 Prices
WorldMarkdetPrice(USSlt)a/                                     77        296         290           105        618        372       4,179       1,707       113         134
Ocean Freight (USSAt)                                          26         53          30            54         60         30          40         40         38          38
CIForFOBDalian(USS/t)                                         103        349         260           159        678        402       4,219      1,667        151         172
ClForFOBDalian(Yuan/t)b/                                      852       2,901      2,161         1,324       5,630      3,334     35,017     13,832       1,250      1,424
PortChargesandDistibutoesMargin(Yuan/t)cJ                     102        286        (219)          144        (532)      325       3,177     (1,270)       137         153
Transport:  -Portto Wholesaler(Yuan/t)d/                       14          14        (14)           14         (26)       26          22        (22)        22         22
-Mill toWVolesaler (Yuan/t) e/                      72         72         (72)           72        (72)        72        216        (216)       216        216
Ex-factory Price                                             1,040      3,273      1,855         1,554       5,001      3,757     38,431     12,325       1,625      1,814
Processing Adjustment                                        100%        70%        100%          100%        95%       100%        100%       100%       100%       100%
Processing Costs                                                          60
By-product Value                                               30         53         170            84
Mill-gate Value                                              1,070      2,284      2,025         1,470       4,751      3,757     38,431     12,325       1,625      1,814
Transport-FarmtoMilf/                                          12          12         12            12         12         12          36         36         12         12
EconomicFarm-gatePrice                                       1,056      2,272      2,013         1,482      4,739       3,769     38,467     12,289      1,637       1,826
FinancialFarm-gatePnceg/                                     1,150      2,000      2,300         1,600      5,490       4,600     18,680     11,700      2,500       2,700
Conversin Factor                                              0.92       1.14       0.88          0.93       0.86        082        2.06       1.05       0.65        0.68                      r- z
a/ Based on World Bank Commodity Prices forcasts, November 1996 and actural CIF/FOB China port prices (data from "China Customs Statistics Yearbook 1994) and adjusted to 1996 pnces.            to3 a5
b/ Exchange rate of Y8.3 = US$1
c/ Port charges of Y25/A plus 9% distnbutor's margin.
d/ Distance from wholesalers to Dalian port is approximately 900 km by rail at an average of Y0 025/ton/km adjusted by a convertion factor of 1 07
sl Distance from Mill to Wholesalers is approximately 150 km by road at Y0 5/tor/km to Y0.7/ton/km adjusted by a convertion factor of 0.96.
f/ Distance from farm to Mill to Wholesalers is approximately 25 km by road at Y0.5/ton/km to Y0.7/ton/km adjusted by a convertion factor of 0.96.
g/ Based on market prices of 1996 in Hailongjiang.



-92 -                             ANNEX 6
Table 3
China
Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project
Summary of Financial Analysis
(Livestock and Aquaculture Component)
IRR       Investment    Sales Price   Operating Cost
Component                     Base Case    Increase       Decrease       Increase
%           10%           10%            10%
1. Livestock Production             31.4           28.0        16.8%           24.0%
- Dairy Cattle                      42.7           38.6        29.7%           36.8%
- Beef Fattening                    31.8           28.0        17.0%           23.3%
- Pig Fattening                     40.6           35.2        13.0%           27.1%
- Goose Fattening                   64.9           50.8        13.3%           42.7%
- Fox Breeding                      27.0           24.5        22.4%           25.4%
2. Aquaculture                      32.9           30.1        16.0%           20.9%



93                                      ANNEX 6
Table 4
China
Heilongiang Agricultural Development Project
Revenue, Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
(Agroprocessing Component)
Annual    Net Present    IRR    Investment Sales Price  perating Co
Component                               Net Return  Value @ 12%  Base Case  Increase   Decrease   Increase
(yuan million) (yuan million)  %       10%         10%         10%
Total Agroprocessing                          271.6        558.2     23.8%      21.5%        16.0%      18.5%
1. Crop Processing                            189.9        413.7     25.1%      23.0%       18.3%       20.3%
- Zhaozhou Corn                                48.4        129.1     31.6%      29.2%       25.1%       27.4%
- Tailai Mungbean Powder                        5.2         12.7     27.6%      25.6%       22.0%       24.0%
- Suihua Rice                                  28.6         62.1     25.6%      23.8%        13.6%      15.6%
- Nehe Wheat                                   27.6         30.5     17.2%      15.5%       10.6%       12.2%
- Bayan Corn                                   17.2         46.2     30.0%      27.8%       24.9%       27.4%
- Lanxi Epoxy Oil                              10.9         34.0     36.0%      33.4%       25.2%       27.1%
- Lanxi Flax Seed                               3.6          8.4     24.8%      23.0%       15.9%       17.5%
- Qiqihar Sea Buckthorn                        13.7         29.3     24.2%      22.2%       20.7%       22.7%
- Shuangcheng Corn                             30.0         49.5     20.7%      18.6%       15.8%       17.7%
2. Livestock Processing                        81.6        185.0     25.3%      21.7%       14.4%       18.2%
- Zhaozhou Geese Processing                     4.9          8.6     20.6%      18.6%       14.8%       16.7%
- Zhaoyuan Geese Processing                     5.1          9.8     22.3%      20.3%       16.5%       18.4%
- Yian Geese Processing                         4.2          8.7     22.8%      20.8%       16.4%       18.2%
- Nehe Geese Processing                         9.8         31.6     38.4%      35.6%       29.8%       32.6%
-Wangkui Geese Processing                       4.5         12.2     31.1%      28.9%       13.8%       17.3%
- Bayan Geese Processing                        4.4          5.6     17.5%      15.7%       11.8%       13.5%
- Zhaodong Geese Processing                     4.2          6.5     19.1%      17.2%       12.9%       14.7%
-Anda Dairy Processing                         13.4         21.6     20.5%      18.4%       15.0%       16.9%
- Hulan Pig Slaughtering and Processing        17.5         52.2     36.0%      24.5%       10.1%       24.5%
- Binxian Cattle Slaughtering and Processin    13.8         28.1     22.9%      20.9%        9.9%       11.3%
m:M\eil\exacy.xls[frragro]



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
Table 5
China
Heilongiiang Agricultural Development Project
Summary of Economic Sensitivity Analysis
Annual   Net Present    IRR    Investment Sales Price Operating Cost   Switching Value
Component                                Net Retum  Value @ 12% Base Case  Increase   Decrease    Increase           @ 12%
(yuan million (yuan million)    %     10%       10%          10%      Benefits \a  Costs \b
Total Project                                 684.1      2,053.8    33.4%      30.0%      20.9%         26.0%      13.1%     17.7%
1. Livestock Production                       234.7        599.2    30.1%      27.0%      15.2%         22.0%      8.1%      12.6%
- Dairy Cattle                                  65.1       180.6    35.7%      32.3%      23.8%         29.8%      12.5%     18.8%
-Beef Fattening                                114.4       309.1    32.2%      25.8%      17.5%         23.5%      11.2%     15.2%
-Pig Fattening                                 24.5         68.2    35.9%      31.5%      14.4%         25.0%       8.6%     13.8%
-Goose Fattening                               29.8        110.9    49.3%      42.3%      13.0%         29.2%       3.9%      7.3%
-Fox Breeding                                   3.4          8.0    26.6%      24.1%      22.4%         25.2%      18.3%     23.4%
2. Aquaculture                                 27.7         99.5    43.9%      40.3%      29.2%         34.7%      19.4%     25.3%
3. Agro-processing                            421.7      1,355.2    36.3%      32.6%      24.8%         29.2%      14.4%     19.5%
Crop Processing                              270.0       821.7    33.5%       31.1%      23.9%         27.1%     14.5%     19.8%
- Zhaozhou Corn                                38.6         88.3    23.8%      22.0%      14.9%         17.1%      12.9%     14.4%
- Tailai Mungbean Powder                         9.6        33.2    43.7%      40.8%      36.2%         39.9%     24.2%      30.9%
- Suihua Rice                                   55.8       190.0    47.2%      44.3%      28.3%         33.1%      16.2%     19.1%
-Nehe Wheat                                    37.1         87.5    24.7%      22.9%      14.8%         17.4%      12.7%     14.2%
-Bayan Corn                                    20.1         61.3    33.4%      31.0%      27.7%         31.0%     21.0%      25.8%
- Lanxi Epoxy Oil                              22.1         88.8    59.9%      55.8%      45.7%         51.0%     23.8%      30.4%
- Lanxi Flax Seed                               6.3         20.4    35.3%      33.0%      24.5%         27.7%      16.7%     19.5%
- Qiqihar Sea Buckthorn                        26.9         96.3    44.7%      41.6%      39.3%         42.9%     28.3%      38.2%
- Shuangcheng Com                              45.1        121.1    27.8%      25.6%      21.5%         24.3%      17.1%     20.0%
Livestock Processing                         151.7       533.4    42.1%      35.9%       26.9%         33.5%     20.5%     21.9%
-Zhaozhou Geese Processing                      8.0         23.8    29.5%      27.2%      21.3%         24.3%      16.2%     19.1%
- Zhaoyuan Geese Processing                     8.6         25.8    31.9%      29.6%      23.7%         26.8%      17.5%     20.5%
- Yian Geese Processing                          7.2        23.7    34.7%      32.2%      25.1%         28.3%      17.5%     20.7%
- Nehe Geese Processing                         16.7        65.5    55.0%      51.3%      41.7%         46.6%     22.7%      28.6%
- Wangkui Geese Processing                       8.0        29.4    48.4%      45.3%      23.9%         30.8%      14.0%     15.9%
- Bayan Geese Processing                        6.9         17.9    25.0%      23.0%      17.2%         19.7%      14.1%     16.2%
-Zhaodong Geese Processing                      6.7         18.7    27.2%      25.1%      18.6%         21.4%      14.5%     17.0%
-Anda Dairy Processing                         24.5         79.5    36.5%      33.6%      29.3%         32.9%     21.0%      26.1%
- Hulan Pig Slaughtering and Processing        28.5        106.4    53.3%      24.5%      14.8%         37.6%      11.1%     12.6%
- Binxian Cattle Slaughtering and Processing    36.6       142.8    57.6%      53.6%      39.9%         45.2%      19.8%     24.5%
\a Revenues would need to decrease by this amount before the project would no longer meet the minimum level of acceptability, as indicated by a
positive net present value (based on an apportunity cost of capital of 12%);
\b Costs would need to increase by this amount before the project would no longer meet the minimum level of acceptability, as indicated by a
positive net present value (based on an apportunity cost of capital of 12%).
mh.TA ..lcy xy [nrr-umryl



- 95 -                     ANNEX7A
ANNEX 7A: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR LIVESTOCK
INDUSTRY CONSULTANTS AND RESEARCH
International Specialists
1.    Beef Nutrition Specialist (one person month). The consultant shall have a post-
graduate degree in animal nutrition with extensive experience in ruminant nutrition and,
particularly, the management of the runen environment. The consultant shall evaluate
ruminant feed resources in the project area with a view to formulating cost effective rations
for the beef production program. He/she shall especially look for opportunities to utilize
by-pass protein sources and will advise on feed and agricultural product and by-product
processing with a view to optimizing by-pass protein production. The consultant shall
provide a training course in animal nutrition for project technical staff focusing on the
management of the rumen environment for optimal feed use efficiency. The consultant, on
return to his/her home base, shall, if required, coordinate and support a study tour by project
staff and focused on beef nutrition and management in the consultant's country.
2.    Dairy Production Consultant (one person month). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate degree in animal production with extensive experience in dairy cattle
nutrition, management and product marketing. The consultant shall review available dairy
cattle and feed resources in the project area and prepare recommendations on optimal feed
rations. He/she shall conduct a training program for project technical staff on dairy cow
nutrition and management with particular emphasis on feeding for fertility and production
and the use of condition scores as a management technique. The consultant shall also
review smallholder dairy farmer milk handling and collection procedures, and prepare
recommendations for project staff on their improvement, including opportunities for
cooperative action in milk collection. The consultant, on return to his/her home base, shall,
if required, coordinate and support a study tour by project staff and focused on dairy herd
and industry management in the consultant's country
3.    Goose Geneticist (one person month). The consultant shall have a post-graduate
degree in animal genetics with extensive experience in avian breeding and selection
systems. The consultant shall advise the Provincial Animal Science Institute of
Heilongjiang on the development of selection criteria for fissured-eye GP geese and the
establishment of a flock recording system including the installation of appropriate software.
The consultant will also support the design and implementation of an indigenous goose
breed comparison trial and the management of the project goose cross-breeding program,
including the selection of appropriate varieties and lines of imported GP stock.
4.    Breeding Systems Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate degree in animal genetics with extensive experience in dairy cattle breeding



- 96 -                      ANNEX7A
and artificial insemination center management. The consultant shall assist the Heilongjiang
Animal Breeding Center with the development of improved semen collection and
processing systems following the installation of the new semen processing line. He/she will
also review Center-managed progeny testing systems and recommend modifications with a
view to diversifying selection indices (particularly for milk protein), increasing selection
pressure within these indices, and broadening the tested cattle population to include
smallholder herds. The consultant shall also evaluate and, where necessary, improve herd
recording software.
5.    Animal Nutrition Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate degree in agricultural science and extensive experience in monogastric and
ruminant nutrition. He/she shall evaluate feed resources in Heilongjiang and review feed
test results of the Provincial feed testing laboratory. On the basis of this analysis, the
consultant shall prepare recommendations for the formulation of feed rations for project
livestock production programs. He/she will prepare and implement a training course in feed
ration formulation, feed quality standards and testing, and animal nutrition for provincial
technical staff and feed industry managers. The consultant, on return to his/her home base,
shall, if required, coordinate and support a study tour by project staff and focused on swine
nutrition and management in the consultant's country.
6.    Livestock Management Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall
have a degree in agricultural science and extensive practical experience in the housing and
management of livestock. The consultant shall evaluate goose, pig and cattle management
systems, and prepare a detailed report on their improvement with particular reference to cost
effective housing, livestock breeding and fertility management, animal husbandry, disease
monitoring and control-particularly subclinical disease, animal welfare and product
handling. The consultant shall conduct a training program in these skills for county
technical staff.
7.    Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (one person month). The consultant shall
have a degree in economics or business administration with a post-graduate qualification
relevant to the development of management inforrnation systems. The consultant will
review information needs of senior Animal Husbandry Bureau managers and prepare an
information needs and source matrix. Together with the national MIS specialist, the
consultant will analyze sources of information and the most efficient means of their
collection. The consultant, in collaboration with the software specialist, will thereafter
design a comprehensive MIS covering market, price and human and resource management
issues pertinent to Animal Husbandry Bureau needs.
8.    Pasture Legume Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate degree in pasture agronomy with extensive experience in cold tolerant
legumes. The consultant shall evaluate Heilongjiang pasture resources (species, soils,
climate and management systems) and specifically review research work on legume
introduction to Heilonjiang pastures. He/she shall prepare recommendations for the
strengthening of the Province's pasture base paying particular attention to the role of annual



- 97 -                      ANNEX7A
legumes. He/she will also design a research program to raise pasture quality and train
pasture scientists in field research techniques. The consultant shall monitor the application
of the research program, and plan and coordinate appropriate workshops and seminars on
pasture improvement strategies and techniques.
9.    Pasture Machinery Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate degree in agricultural engineering with extensive experience in the design and
management of machinery for the reinforcement of natural pastures with improved
varieties. The consultant shall review pasture establishment techniques in Heilongjiang and
prepare recommendations for a trials program to test least cost pasture establishment
methods. The consultant shall assist staff of the Grassland's Institute to modify local seed
planting machinery for improved, least cost pasture establishment and monitor field trials
on improved establishment techniques.
10.   Avian Epidemiologist (one person month). The consultant shall have a post-
graduate degree in veterinary science with extensive experience in the epidemiology of
avian disease and the management of an avian diagnostic laboratory. The consultant shall
review avian disease incidence and control procedures in the project area and advise Animal
Husbandry Bureau specialists as to effective and efficient disease control strategies. He/she
will put in place a disease surveillance system for the GP and Parent flocks and train AHB
staff and supporting diagnostic laboratory staff in its management. The consultant shall
also plan and implement a workshop on recent developments in veterinary epidemiology
with particular reference to avian disease.
National Technical Assistance
11.   Pig Breeding Consultant (one person month). The consultant shall have a post-
graduate qualification in animal science and extensive experience in the management of pig
breeding programs in north east China. He/she will be responsible for advising AHB staff
in the establishment of the pig breeding program, including design of housing and selection
and management of breeding stock. The consultant shall advise the project technical staff
on pig breeding, nutrition and management and will be responsible for the preparation and
implementation of at least two workshops for provincial pig specialists. Fluency in English
and excellent communication skills in both English and Chinese are a requirement.
12.   Beef Nutrition Specialist (one person month). The consultant shall have a post-
graduate qualification in animal science and extensive experience in the management of
beef cattle programs in north east China. The consultant, in collaboration with the
internationally recruited beef nutrition specialist, shall survey and report on the scale and
nature of the beef breeding and fattening industry in Heilongjiang province. He/she will
determine the scale of beef offtake by age, size and condition, establish weight for age and
weight/condition for price ratios and construct a model of the Heilongjiang beef breeding
and fattening industry. The consultant will identify key constraints to beef production in
Heilongjiang and prepare strategies for their alleviation. Fluency in English and excellent
communication skills in both English and Chinese are a requirement.



- 98 -                      ANNEX7A
13.   Dairy Production Consultant (one person month). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate qualification in animal science and extensive experience in the management
of dairy cattle programs in north east China. The consultant shall, prior to the arrival of the
international consultant, conduct a detailed assessment of dairy farming practices and
industry programs and procedures in the project area. Working with the international
consultant, he/she shall assist in the review of feed resources in the project area; support the
training program for project technical staff on dairy cow nutrition and management; and
assist with the review of smallholder dairy farner milk handling and collection procedures.
Fluency in English and excellent communication skills in both English and Chinese are a
requirement.
14.   Software Development Specialist (twelve person months). The national software
specialist shall have a post-graduate qualification in computer science and extensive
experience in the development and application of computer programs. He/she will work
closely with the national and international management information systems specialists in
the development of appropriate computer software for project activity monitoring and
evaluation. The consultant shall also be responsible for the development and initial
management of the Livestock Information Center network and for the subsequent training
of center staff in its management. Fluency in English and excellent communication skills in
both English and Chinese are a requirement.
15.   Animal Breeding Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate qualification in animal science and extensive experience in the management
of artificial breeding programs. The consultant, in collaboration with the internationally
recruited breeding systems specialist, shall review the field performance of animal breeding
services in the project area paying particular attention to pricing policy and the
identification and explanation of performance variations (inseminations/conception; percent
conception at first insemination; semen viability; etc.) between counties and between state
and smallholder farms. Using this information, the consultant shall assist the international
specialist in the development and implementation of strategies and supporting training
programs designed to increase the overall efficiency of Al services at the farm level.
Fluency in English and excellent communication skills in both English and Chinese are a
requirement.
16.   Animal Nutrition Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall have a
post-graduate qualification in animal nutrition and extensive experience in the analysis of
animal nutrition issues in north east China. The consultant, drawing on his/her extensive
knowledge of animal nutrition constraints in the project area, shall, in collaboration with the
internationally recruited animal nutrition specialist, prepare recommendations for the
formulation of feed rations for project livestock production programs. He/she will also
support the implementation of a training course in feed ration formulation, feed quality
standards and testing and animal nutrition for provincial technical staff and feed industry
managers. Fluency in English and excellent communication skills in both English and
Chinese are a requirement.



- 99 -                      ANNEX 7A
17.   Livestock Management Specialist (two person months). The consultant shall
have a post-graduate qualification in animal science and extensive experience in the
management of livestock programs in north east China. The consultant, under the guidance
of the internationally recruited livestock management specialist, shall survey goose, pig and
cattle management systems in the project area, and support the preparation of a detailed
report on their improvement with particular reference to cost effective housing, livestock
breeding and fertility management, animal husbandry, disease monitoring and control. The
consultant shall also support a training program in these skills for county technical staff.
Fluency in English and excellent communication skills in both English and Chinese are a
requirement.
18.   Management Information Specialist (three person months). The consultant,
who shall have a post-graduate qualification in business management, information systems,
or monitoring and evaluation, will analyze the information needs of AHB and the
structuring of its existing information systems. The consultant will look particularly at
needs in relation to the monitoring of livestock markets and project related activities at
county and lower levels. Experience in international investment project monitoring and
evaluation work would be an advantage. Fluency in English and excellent communication
skills in both English and Chinese are a requirement.
19.   Pasture Legume Specialist (three person months).  The national pasture
specialist shall have a post graduate qualification is agronomy and extensive experience in
the establishment and management of pastures in Heilongjiang province. In collaboration
with the internationally recruited legume specialist, he/she will manage a collaboratively
developed pasture trials program with particular emphasis on annual legumes. The
consultant will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the trials program,
including site management, sampling and data recording, and sample analysis.  In
collaboration with the international specialist, the consultant will analyze and report trial
results and support the staff training program.  Fluency in English and excellent
communication skills in both English and Chinese are a requirement.
20.   Soils Specialist (three person months). The national soils specialist shall have a
post graduate qualification in soil science and extensive experience in the chemical and
physical properties of soils in Heilongjiang province. The consultant shall collaborate with
the project recruited national and international pasture specialists in the identification and
evaluation of suitable pasture species for Heilongjiang rangelands and in the management
of soil fertility for their establishment and productivity. He/she will also collaborate with
the pasture machinery specialist in the design and testing of appropriate machinery for cost-
effective pasture establishment in Heilongjiang.  Fluency in English and excellent
communication skills in both English and Chinese are a requirement.
Research Programs
21.   Goose Research Program. Goose production occurs mainly within smallholder
farming systems wherein birds are frequently hatched and reared at the farm household and



-100 -                      ANNEX7A
raised under grain and grain by-product supplemented free-range feeding environments.
Indigenous birds grow to 3.5-4 kg over a four to five month period and are slaughtered for
their meat and down. While egg lay rates in some varieties are high, hatchability is
relatively low and the relative merits of the various goose varieties in the Province are
poorly understood. At least one local variety, the fissured-eye goose, has a reputedly high
egg lay rate-up to 180 eggs/bird/season.
22.   The project would run comparative production trials under standard management
conditions on a range of identifiable varieties of the white goose found in Heilongjiang
province. Characteristics to be monitored would include egg laying rates, egg hatching,
gosling survival, monthly growth rate, slaughter weight and down volume and quality.
Varieties deemed to be superior as a result of the comparative trials would be moved into a
program  investigating cost effective management strategies.  From  there, successful
varieties would move to a nucleus flock selection program within which subjectively
identified superior birds would be selected and moved into a nucleus flock for further
objective evaluation. Objectively assessed superior birds would be moved from the nucleus
flock for use in the breeding goose program.
23.   Pasture Research Program. The value of Heilonjiang's vast pasture resource is
diminished by its relatively low quality, particularly when it is stored (either as hay or
silage) for winter feed. The low level of leguminous fodder in the native sward is the
primary reason for the diminished feed value. Attempts at the introduction of improved
legumes have been largely focused on the introduction of perennial legumes of which only
alfalfa (Medicago sativa) has proven broadly successful.  The intense cold of the
Heilongjiang winter and relative lack of snow may explain, at least in part, the failure of
many perennial leguminous species. A range of annual legumes grow at high altitude in
Africa and South America. Annual legumes with high seeding rates and early spring
growth characteristics may meet critical protein gaps in the feed base during the hay and
silage making seasons.
24.   While there has been substantial research on the establishment and management of
local grass species and on the management of indigenous soil types, pasture establishment
costs, particularly for alfalfa, are exacerbated by ploughing and full land preparation
expenses. Inefficient machinery with poor seed delivery and placement exacerbates these
costs. Scientists and farmers alike are largely unaware of mechanical oversowing and
spray/plant techniques.
25.   The research program would run comparative field trials for indigenous, and
introduce annual and selected perennial pasture legumes across all major soil types and
agroecological zones in the project area. A parallel legume and grass species establishment
trial would be conducted to test least cost establishment techniques using imported direct
seeding and locally modified seed drills. Standard fertilizer packages would be applied to
all species within each agroecological zone/soil type; however, successfully tested species
would be further tested for tolerance of low fertility and special soil conditions.



-101-                      ANNEX17B
ANNEX 7B: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A LIVESTOCK
PROCESSING STUDY
Introduction
1.    The Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project is being implemented by the
Heilongjiang Provincial Government and supported by the World Bank. The project
includes investments in livestock and poultry development and processing enterprises.
Designs and management of the livestock and poultry processing enterprises will
incorporate modem standards of hygiene and environmental control; standards which are
not being uniformly applied in the meat processing sector in the Province.
2.   Inspections carried out during preparation of the project showed that neither
public health nor pollution control rules and regulations are being uniformly enforced in
the livestock and poultry processing sectors with the result that heavy pollution is
occurring and that meat products are sometimes being processed in extremely unhygienic
conditions which could be creating public health problems.
3.   If these deficiencies are allowed to persist, they will almost certainly disadvantage
the financial viability of livestock and poultry processing enterprises financed under the
project. Therefore, it is proposed, as part of the project, to carry out a study of
environmental and hygiene standards currently being applied in the meat processing
sector within the Province and to make recommendations on options available for
improving standards throughout the sector.
4.    These Terms of Reference outline the scope of work of the proposed study.
Background
5.    Both the State and Provincial Governments in China are concerned about
standards of management and operation in the livestock and poultry processing sectors.
In December 1995, the General Office of the State Council issued a directive entitled
Emergency Notice on Strengthening Anti-epidemic Administration Activities of Livestock
and Poultry Slaughtering, which required all Provinces to improve management and
correctly apply rules and regulations already in existence, such as the State Council's
Anti-epidemic Regulations and Rules on Livestock and Poultry and Notice by the General
Office of the State Council on the Relevant Problems Concerning the Administration of
Livestock and Poultry Slaughtering.
6.   In response to the State Council's Directive of December 1995, the Heilongjiang
Provincial Government set up an Administrative Activities Leading Group to investigate
compliance with rules and regulations and strengthen supervision. As a result of the



-102 -                        ANNEX7B
activities of the leading group, it is reported that in 1996 some 427 private
slaughterhouses were closed down, 365 replacement enterprises were established, and six
processing plants and abattoirs were renovated.
7.    Nevertheless, it seems that the Provincial Government's action to date has focused
on tightening up administration of existing laws and regulations and within the existing
regulatory framework. As far as it is known, the government has not considered whether:
(a) the problems being experienced in administration have anything to do with the
allocation of supervisory powers under the existing regulatory framework (e.g., whether
supervisory responsibility is too diffusely distributed, whether any of the supervisory
agencies have any conflicts of interest that may be limiting their objectivity, whether
supervisory responsibility is vested in the "right" agency (or agencies); and (b) the
current regulations are adequate to underwrite a modern, hygienic meat processing
industry, even if they were being followed.
8.    The proposed study, which will be carried out under the direction of the
Provincial Project Management office is intended to assist the governnent to answer
these questions.
Scope of Work
9.    The consultants will carry out research and field investigations with a view to
covering the following issues:
(a)    Sectoral Overview:   Prepare an inventory of livestock processing
enterprises within the Province based on a suitable classification regarding
type and size of operation, estimate total scale of production, and outline
recent development trends (e.g., trends in the type, size and ownership of
processing operations);
(b)    Regulatory Overview. Identify the agencies responsible for regulation of
both in-plant hygienic standards and pollution control within the industry,
the regulatory specifications they are required to enforce, identify the
resources available to police the regulations, the level of effort applied to
policing the regulations, the professional/technical abilities of regulatory
staff, identify areas of overlap and conflict, identify areas where
regulations should be improved, identify training requirements, etc.;
(c)    Sample Audit of Livestock Processing Enterprises. Based on the sectoral
overview, select a random sample of enterprises for detailed inspection of
plant designs, operating procedures, in-plant waste water reduction, waste
water flows, waste water quality, and waste water treatment with a view to
identify areas for improvement of plant design, operations and treatment
systems;



-103 -                      ANNEX7B
(d)   Findings and Recommendations. Based on the preceding, prepare a report
recommending a strategy for improving standards of hygiene and
environmental control in the sector including aspects such as changes in
regulations, changes in regulatory structure and/or procedures, training of
regulators and industry operators, development of simple in-plant
pollution minimization procedures, design and operation of simple waste
water treatment systems.
10.   At the completion of the research and investigations and following preparation of
a draft report, the consultants will hold a workshop in Harbin, to be attended by relevant
representatives of both the industry and regulators, to discuss their draft findings and
recommendations and provide a basis for finalization of the report.
11.   The final report will be submitted to the Provincial Government and the Bank.
Study Team
12.  It is envisaged that the study would be carried out by team of both foreign and
local experts.  The local experts would carry out the basic research, document
procurement and organize translations of the most relevant materials, and then participate
with the foreign expert in field inspections, meetings with relevant officials and drafting
of the findings and recommendations.
13.   Team  Leader/Meat Industry Specialist-Foreign (two person months).
Engineer or agricultural scientist with a minimum of 15 years experience in the meat
processing sector relevant to the tasks set down in the terms of reference.  Some
experience in a relevant regulatory agency would be an advantage as would some
experience in China or other developing countries.
14.   Environmental Engineer/Waste Water Treatment Specialist-National (two
person months).  Environmental engineer/waste water treatment engineer with a
minimum of 10 years relevant experience including design and commissioning of waste
water treatment plants and compliance with Chinese environmental standards.
15.   Meat Industry Specialist-National (two person months).  Engineer or
scientist with a minimum of 10 years experience in the food processing sector relevant to
the tasks set down in the terms of reference.
Budget
16.   The total budget including consultant's fees, travel and accommodation,
document procurement and translation, project management and report preparation is
Y 500,000.



-104 -                     ANNEX8
ANNEX 8: RESETTLEMENT GUIDELINES
Introduction
1.    Based on the Government's and the Bank's review of subprojects proposed for
financing, resettlement necessitated by the project is limited to the agroprocessing
component where 4 ha of land would be acquired for three new enterprises. A Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP) has been prepared in full consultation with the concerned households,
reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable, and has been placed in the Project File
(Annex 10). Should additional subprojects involving land acquisition be selected during
project implementation, the Chinese Government and the World Bank have agreed on the
following guidelines to insure equitable and effective treatment of resettlement issues under
the project.
Legal Framework
2.    As reviewed in a recent World Bank Report on involuntary resettlement in China
(Report No. 11641-CHA), Chinese law and regulation now generally meet the requirements
of the World Bank Operational Directive on resettlement and the resettlement guidelines of
the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The major laws and
regulations that bear on resettlement under the Project include the following:
(a)   The "Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State Construction" (1982)
provides for compensation based on the requirements for restoring income.
(b)   The "Land Administration Law" (1986) and related amendments (1988)
require that incomes and assets be protected during resettlement and that
affected communities be consulted during the project design stage. In
addition, resettlers are given the specific right to challenge resettlement
decisions in the courts.  The law gives affected cities, counties, and
collectives responsibility for implementing resettlement and provides
guidance on resettlement principles, organization, and compensation.
Provinces are required to draw up implementing regulations that confirm to
the national legislation, which define more precisely resettlement procedures
and compensation for various types of land and other property. Provinces
may also give cities and counties the right to enact additional resettlement
regulations conforming to national and provincial law. These local laws
have gained added significance with the decision of the State Council in
1992 and the previous blanket exemption of national projects from local
resettlement regulations.



-105 -                       ANNEX8
(c)   National regulations pertaining to urban resettlement were published in 1984
and laid out administrative procedures for urban land acquisition and
compensation. They serve as enabling regulations for municipalities, which
then developed resettlement procedures and compensation arrangements
appropriate to their situation. The "Administrative Regulations for House
Removal in Cities" (1991) introduced updated and more comprehensive
regulations for urban resettlement. This regulation specifies: (i) consultation
requirements, including public announcements of the proposed project, to be
followed by individual consultation with affected households; (ii) grievance
procedures; and (iii) the principle of full replacement value for expropriated
housing, whether owned or rented.
Resettlement Principles for the Project
3.    The Chinese Government and the Bank have agreed on the following principles for
resettlement under the project:
*  Involuntary resettlement will be avoided or minimized where feasible; to this
end, sub-borrowers of project funds will explore all viable alternative project
designs.
*  All resettlement activities will conform  with existing Chinese laws and
regulations at the national, provincial, city and county levels.
*  Affected persons will be consulted during the planning and implementation of
resettlement activities. In particular, they will be informed of the resettlement
plans and their options and legal rights prior to the initiation of any
resettlement activity; institutionalized arrangements will be established to
facilitate communication during the planning and implementation of
resettlement; and an effective and well-understood grievance process will be
developed.
.  Affected persons will be resettled within their original village whenever
possible. If this is not possible, they will be resettled as close as possible to
their original village. The principles for selecting relocation sites will be:
(a) within the same village, (b) to adjacent villages within the same xiang;
(c) other villages within the same xiang; (d) to adjacent xiangs; (e) other
xiangs within the same counties; and (f) adjacent counties.
*  Affected persons will be resettled in similar livelihoods. Where possible,
agriculture workers will be resettled with agricultural jobs, industrial workers
will be resettled with industrial jobs. If this is not possible, affected persons
will be insured suitable employment in an endeavor other than that of their
previous employment, and will receive retraining where necessary to rend
them suitable for such employment.



-106 -                      ANNEX8
.  Affected persons will be resettled as groups whenever possible to reduce
social disruptions.
*  Valuation of lost assets will be made at full replacement cost.
*  The total level of compensation will insure that the living standards, income
earning capacity, and production levels are improved, or, at least, do not
deteriorate as a result of their resettlement.
Implementation Arrangements
4.    Organizational Responsibilities. The project's executive agency, the Provincial
Project Management Office (PPMO) in the Heilongjiang Planning Commission will have
overall responsibility for supervising and monitoring the implementation of all resettlement
plans. The PPMO will be assisted by the local resettlement authorities, comprising the local
Land Administration Bureaus, Land Valuation Bureaus, Village, Municipal, Township or
County government with authority over the subproject site. The subprojects' management
teams will be responsible for the preparation and approval process, and monitoring of
resettlement plans.  These teams will act on behalf of the subprojects' sponsoring
enterprises. The implementation of all resettlement plans will be subject to the approval
and clearance of such plans by the relevant local authorities. The PPMO will coordinate
closely with these authorities with respect to the monitoring of approved resettlement plans.
5.    Where resettlement will be part of a subproject proposal, the PPMO, in consultation
with the Provincial Finance Bureau, would approve subloans conditional on submission by
the subproject sponsor of a resettlement plan meeting principles and procedures satisfactory
to the PPMO, local authorities, and the Bank. The resettlement plan's scope would be
consistent with agreed upon guidelines, based on the broad criteria outlined in paras. 6 and
7.
6.    Resettlement Plans. A resettlement plan will be prepared for each and every
subproject that involves land acquisition or displacement of people. The content and level
of detail of the resettlement plan will vary with the magnitude of the resettlement.
7.    When more than 200 individuals are affected in a subproject, a comprehensive
resettlement plan for that subproject will be prepared that addresses the following issues:
(a)   organizational responsibilities;
(b)   community participation and integration with host populations;
(c)   socio-economic survey;
(d)   legal framework;
(e)   alternative sites and selection;



-107-                        ANNEX8
(f)    valuation of and compensation for lost assets;
(g)   and tenure, acquisition, and transfer;
(h)   access to training, employment, and credit;
(i)   shelter, infrastructure, and social services;
()    enviromnental protection and management;
(k)   implementation schedule, monitoring, and evaluation; and
(1)    detailed cost estimates.
8.    When 200 or less individuals are affected in a subproject, a summary resettlement
plan for that subproject will be prepared that addresses the following issues:
(a)    organizational responsibilities;
(b)   community participation and integration with host populations;
(c)   valuation of and compensation for lost assets;
(d)   implementation schedule, monitoring, and evaluation; and
(e)    detailed cost estimates.
9.    World Bank Review of Resettlement Plans. The World Bank's prior approval of
each resettlement plan will be required.
10.   Sources of Funding for Resettlement. No funds will be made available in the
project budget for the funding of resettlement costs. These costs will be primarily borne by
the subproject's sponsor or the subproject itself. The enterprise or agency responsible for
funding will, as part of the necessary documentation for loan approval, show proof to the
PPMO it has designated the necessary funds to support the financial cost of such a plan and
that the disbursement of these funds is time-bound to the implementation schedule prepared
for the plan. The determination of resettlement costs will be based on the principles of land
acquisition and resettlement, and will be implemented in accordance with existing local
land administration and other resettlement laws, as interpreted. Where relevant, local
government agencies may contribute to resettlement costs by providing assets lost as the
result of land acquisition such as the provision of new or alternate housing, or land.
Monitoring and Evaluation
11.   Monitoring Structure. A resettlement monitoring structure will be set up as part
of the overall project management infrastructure and will comprise, in hierarchical order,
the PPMO in the Provincial Planning Commission as the project's chief monitoring



-108 -                      ANNEX8
coordinator, in collaboration with prefecture, county and municipal Project Management
Offices (PMOs). The PPMO will receive approved resettlement plans, other relevant data,
and progress reports directly from the lower level PMOs. Resettlement monitoring will
provide an early warning system for project managers via the PPMO, which would insure
information objectivity through direct, in-house monitoring. A channel for resettlers to
make known their needs would be established, from the local authorities or the subproject
monitoring unit, directly to the PPMO. Monitoring progress reports would be submitted by
subproject management units to the local PMO and forwarded up to the PPMO, as part of
the routine semi-annual subproject progress reporting. During the first year of subproject
implementation, the PPMO will have the right, where warranted, to request more frequent
progress update reports.  Baseline and implementation socioeconomic surveys on
resettlement plans involving over 200 persons will be carried out to compare the without
and with-subproject effects of resettlement on affected persons. Bank review of the
monitoring progress will be at semi-annual intervals during the first year of subproject
implementation and annually thereafter, throughout the project's implementation period.
12.   Monitoring indicators to be reported to the Bank will include:
(a)   Date of approval of resettlement proposals and compliance with these
Guidelines.
(b)   Confirmation that subproject monitoring structure is in place.
(c)   Confirmation that communications channel for affect persons to and from
the PPMO is in place.
(d)   Target date(s) for expected resettlement benefits to resettlers.
(e)   Target date for replacement of land, where applicable.
(f)    Date(s) of occupation of new or replacement housing.
(g)   Confirmation of equal replacement value of housing or land.
*(h)   Confirmation and date(s) of allocation of replacement jobs.
(i)    Confirmation of amount of replacement salaries/income.
(j)    Confirmation and date(s) of job retraining, where relevant.



109                 ANNEX 9
SUPERVISION PLAN
Date                         Scope of Mission              Expertise
June 1997                    Project Launch Workshop;      Livestock specialist
Review:                       Agroprocessing specialist
-Plans and designs           Environmental engineer
-Procurement                 Procurement/Disbursement
-Reporting                   Economist
-Appointment of consultants
October 1997                 Review:                       Livestock specialist
-Training programs           Aquaculture specialist
-Procurement                 Agroprocessing specialist
-Livestock
-Aquaculture
May 1998                     Review:                       Livestock specialist
-Physical progress           Aquaculture specialist
-Monitoring                  Business Management
-Training                    specialist
-Enterprise reform           Environmental engineer
Aptil 1999                   Review:                       Livestock specialist
-Physical progress           Agroprocessing specialist
-Monitoring
April 2000                   Mid-Term Review               Economist
-Physical progress           Livestock specialist
-Cost estimates              Aquaculture specialist
-Project schedule            Business Management/
-Enterprise reform           marketing specialist
Environmental engineer
Agroprocessing specialist
2000 - 2001                  Review of physical progress.    To be determined after mid-
Last mission to discuss ICR  term review
with borrower.
m:\heil\spnplan.an9



-110-                       ANNEX10
ANNEX 10: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE
PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Project.
A. 1. Feasibility Study Report (Integrated Part)
World Bank Loans Office of Heilongjiang September, 1994.
A.2.  Feasibility Study Report (Revised)
World Bank Loans Office of Heilongjiang October, 1995
A.3.  Feasibility Studies for Agroprocessing (Twenty-one volumes)
Various Provincial Design Institutes, May, 1996 and updated
October/November 1996
A.4.  The Preliminary Evaluation report on the Environmental Project
Heilongjiang Scientific Institute of Environmental Protection, February, 1996
A.5.  Project Preparation Report (Livestock Component)
Agriteam Canada Consulting, Ltd., July, 1995
A.6.  Project Preparation Report (Meat Processing)
Hassall and Associates Pty. Ltd., July 1995
A.7.  Project Preparation Report (Marketing)
Allan Kelly and Associates Pty. Ltd., December, 1995
A.8.  Environmental Issues in Heilongjiang ADP, Preappraisal Mission
Sinclair Knight Merz., June 1996
A.9.  Project Preparation Report (Livestock)
Lincoln International, September, 1996 and revised October 1996
A.10. Heilongj iang ADP. Land Acquisition and Farmers Resettlement Action Plan



-111-                       ANNEX 10
Heilongjiang Province Office of the World Bank Project for Agriculture,
October, 1996
A. 1 1. Environmental Data Sheets and summary EIA
Heilongjiang Scientific Institute of Environmental Protection, February, 1996
Heilongjiang Province Office of the World Bank Project for Agriculture,
October, 1996
A. 12. Marketing Reports on Pig Processing, Beef Processing, Goose Processing and
Longlife Milk, Harbin Institute of Technology, School of Management,
September 1996
A. 13. Marketing Reports on Maize Starch, Acetyl Propionic Acid, Sorbitol,
Glucose, Denatured Starch, Epoxy Oil and Cooking Oil, Comprehensive
Processing of Paddy Rice, Wheat Flour, Sea Buckthom, Industrial and
Commercial Department, Heilongjiang Commercial College, Domestic Trade
Ministry, August, 1996
B. Working Papers
B. 1.  Detailed Project Costs.
B.2.  Livestock Farm Models and Budgets
B.3.  Economic and Financial Analysis



112                                               CHART 1
China
Heilongiiang Agricultural Development Project
Implementation Schedule
1997           1998            1999           2000            2001           2002
Component                Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 Ql Q2 Q3 Q4 01 Q2 Q3 Q4 Qi Q2 q3 Q4 l1 Q2 Q3 Q4
1. Livestock Production
- Dairy Cattle
- Beef Fattening
- Pig Fattening
- Goose Fattening
- Fox Breeding
- Livestock Information Network
- Goose Breeding Study
- Animal Breeding Center
2. Aquaculture
3. Agro-processing
Crop Processing
- Zhaozhou Corn
- Tailai Mungbean Powder
- Suihua Rice
- Nehe Wheat
- Bayan Corn
- Lanxi Epoxy Oil
- Lanxi Flax Seed
- Qiqihar Sea Buckthorn
- Shuangcheng Corn
Livestock Processing
- Zhaozhou Geese Processing
- Zhaoyuan Geese Processing
- Yian Geese Processing
- Nehe Geese Processing
- Wangkui Geese Processing                                                -
- Bayan Geese Processing
- Zhaodong Geese Processing
- Anda Dairy Processing
- Hulan Pig Slaughtering and Processing
- Binxian Cattle Slaughtering and Processing



122                    124                     126                     12b                     130                     132                     134
,N .   \ J :- ;, '   >-)                                                        CHINA
-)  ,- , -' --?<n                                 HEILONGJIANG AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ACTIVITIES BY COUNTY
'  :   ~   ,  r /  .            I                               PROJECT ACTIVITIES.                    PROJECT AREA
U     CROP PROCESSING                 *   COUNTY (XIAN) CAPITALS
Tof                ,      . ---         -oj   (                        0      LIVESTOCK PROCESSING            @    PREFECTURE CAPITALS                       52
..6,    FISHERY                        (    PROVINCE CAPITAL
K                                           7k!    w                        21 * Hum LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION.      - PRIMARY ROADS
l- ' -~ /   85_ _ x_  ('  r -%                        t       DAIRY                              SECONDARY ROADS
( ~'                                       ff R}:  ¢    \   t  BEEF                 -  RAILROADS
AM       PIG                          -      RIVERS
16 Jo0doqI          -                                    ¶'  V   GEESE                         ---  COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES
FOX                         --   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
--    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.   N    E  I                            r    ,    
50'
M O               N G O L
f~ k !   Noiogdoqi x  - X _/ ,,-Lo{etXQnke  +                                                    R   U    S   S   I A    N
0  \ tW A    <    X   X X    Y    ,\7,,J,n          F E D  E R A T I                              0 N
y  t..     T ~ H IIK.                                                                   . . %          I  \                                          R-o   -S
o~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o
Tohogco, <_ t    F f,/\                                                          ,T ue              -  
4US*lt0R1O                    01                  Tollo   }      |Tv To             Dunhuo 
os~~~~~~~~GeW~~~~~~ ~  -E  Modnpo e  ,                                                                h Hun     IenR'Te
Io       0        50      100      150     200      20 
UIDOU     UMNH                                                                                            \l,,,,,,   $  soo  KIlOMETERS    ;;
16     brNWAL/                          m            h bo,,aoeolor,, oooo,oodosimUlon0Xd odo, loo i,ooolxo hooo r5                                                                          v
Z *~~~~~~ o06.oo nGonh mp do nol,oITool600onIl or  h WorddJon G,ooupoy ,                             D.P R                                Se         of      Ja a
16y                     ,    AOOOCO 000  u           4udgm.oo lhoIoJoololo. oioly bloory,ol onyoodooseenooorfSea                                              o         
t S /   l VIE%IAS}<S  Seolholclooloolo o,ohLoo=dooo                                              KOREA  /             .,
_ .0.0.((+CJn                                                                                                                                      eor 120  rXi0 132-  '134                 0









IMAGING
Report No.:        16049   CHA
Type:     SAR



