Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4161-CHA
Project Agreement
(Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
Dated June 26, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4161-CHA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE (Heilongjiang).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People’s Republic of 
China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount equal to one hundred twenty million dollars ($120,000,000) on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Heilongjiang agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
WHEREAS Heilongjiang, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Heilongjiang declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, financial and technical practices and sound 
health, safety and environmental standards, and provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement and except as the Bank and Heilongjiang shall otherwise agree, Heilongjiang 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Heilongjiang shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Heilongjiang shall:
(i)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and Heilongjiang, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Heilongjiang on 
said plan.
Section 2.05. (a) Heilongjiang shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan.
(b)
Heilongjiang shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Heilongjiang of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Heilongjiang shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Heilongjiang responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Heilongjiang shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
Page  3
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Heilongjiang 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Heilongjiang thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
For Heilongjiang:
Project Management Office
No. 8 Wenzhong Street
Nangang District
Harbin 150001
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Heilongjiang 
may be taken or executed by any Vice Governor of Heilongjiang or such other person or 
persons as any such Vice Governor shall designate in writing, and Heilongjiang shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Page  4
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
HEILONGJIANG PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  5
aggregate amount not to exceed $13,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
International Shopping
Breeding stock for cattle, geese and foxes and specialized equipment for 
breeding centers, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(c)
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(d)
Direct Contracting
Livestock (other than those referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 1), up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $43,400,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section 2, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Force Account and Community Participation
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $32,300,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines, or by the use of community members hired in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Page  6
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” (the Consultant Guidelines) 
published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, 
other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Heilongjiang shall at 
all times continue to maintain, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
with competent staff in adequate numbers:
(a)
a Project management office at the provincial level, to be responsible 
for the overall coordination and supervision of Project implementation, including 
preparation of annual work programs, review of local level work programs, procurement 
of goods and services, organization of training, and monitoring and evaluation of 
progress in implementing the Project; and
(b)
a Project management office in each of the prefectures, municipalities 
and counties involved in Project implementation, to be responsible for coordination 
and supervision of the Project activities included within said office's respective 
jurisdiction.
2.
In order to assist Beneficiaries in the preparation of their Agroprocessing 
Subprojects, Heilongjiang shall employ a team of environmental experts, with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to review the 
final designs for said subproject.
3.
Heilongjiang shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than November 30 in each calendar year for the Bank’s review, a 
program setting forth the activities proposed to be implemented under Parts A, B and D 
of the Project during the following calendar year, and consolidating the proposed 
plans of activities to be carried out during said following year under Agroprocessing 
Subprojects, furnished to it by the Beneficiaries pursuant to Part C.7(b) of this 
Schedule. Thereafter, Heilongjiang shall ensure that such program as shall have been 
approved by the Bank shall be implemented with due diligence and efficiency during 
said following year.
B.
Parts A and B of the Project (Livestock and Aquaculture)
1.
Heilongjiang shall ensure that the amounts of the Loan used to finance goods and 
services made available to farmers under Parts A and B of the Project shall be repaid 
by the farmers to Heilongjiang, through its Bureau of Finance as follows:  the amount 
so repayable shall be the equivalent in the currency of the Borrower (determined on 
the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out 
Page  7
on account of the cost of said goods and services, and shall be repaid over a period 
not to exceed six years (inclusive of a grace period not to exceed two years), at an 
interest rate equal to the rate applicable from time to time to loans of similar 
maturity for similar investments made by the Agricultural Bank of China.
2.
Heilongjiang shall ensure that livestock-raising activities under Part A(1) of 
the Project shall be designed and implemented in accordance with farm models 
acceptable to the Bank.  Heilongjiang shall further ensure that farmers receiving 
cattle under Part A of the Project shall insure said cattle against loss, under 
arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
C.
Part C of the Project (Agroprocessing Subprojects)
General
1.
Heilongjiang shall ensure that:  (a) Agroprocessing Subprojects shall be 
appraised and monitored in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the 
Bank; and (b) Agroprocessing Sub-loans shall be made in accordance with procedures and 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include those set forth 
below in Sections 2 through 8 of this Part C.
Resettlement
2.
If any Agroprocessing Subproject for which Heilongjiang proposes to make an 
Agroprocessing Sub-loan would involve the involuntary resettlement of persons, 
Heilongjiang shall ensure that all such persons shall be resettled prior to 
implementation of such Agroprocessing Subproject in accordance with a resettlement 
plan approved by the Bank, which shall have been designed on the basis of policies, 
planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria acceptable to the 
Bank, so as to improve the living standards and production levels of said persons.
Enterprise Eligibility Criteria
3.
Each Agroprocessing Sub-loan for an Agroprocessing Subproject shall be made 
exclusively to a Beneficiary, selected by agreement between the Bank and Heilongjiang, 
which shall have established to the satisfaction of Heilongjiang, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank that:
(a)
it is an entity possessing legal person status, with authority to borrow 
and carry out the Agroprocessing Subproject;
(b)
it has (or, in the case of a new enterprise, its founders have) been 
engaged in operations similar to those proposed under the Agroprocessing Subproject;
(c)
it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure, and its financial 
performance (or, in the case of a new enterprise, the financial performance of its 
founders) for the three years preceding its application for an Agroprocessing Sub-loan 
has been satisfactory;
(d)
it is able, and has undertaken, to contribute at least 30% of the total 
estimated cost of the Agroprocessing Subproject in the form of equity;
(e)
it has the organization, management, staff and other resources required 
for the efficient carrying out of its operations, and has developed a suitable 
training and technical support program for its production and managerial staff;
(f)
any proposed use under the Agroprocessing Subproject of patented or 
otherwise legally protected technology is consistent with its legal rights and 
obligations with respect to such technology; and 
(g)
it has prepared and undertaken to implement a suitable restructuring 
program designed to improve the efficiency with which it carries on its operations, 
such program to focus on its corporate and management structure.
Agroprocessing Subproject Appraisal Criteria
4.
Each Agroprocessing Sub-loan shall be made to a Beneficiary for an 
Page  8
Agroprocessing Subproject which Heilongjiang shall have determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal (including an environmental impact assessment) carried out in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, meets the following requirements:
(a)
said Agroprocessing Subproject is technically feasible, and economically 
and financially and commercially viable, including on the basis of an assessment of 
markets for its output;
(b)
said Agroprocessing Subproject (i) is in compliance with environmental 
standards satisfactory to the Bank, and with all applicable laws and regulations of 
the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection and (ii) has been 
developed in accordance with the recommendations of an environmental impact assessment 
which has been approved by the environmental protection bureau responsible for the 
locality in which said Agroprocessing Subproject is located; and the final designs for 
said Agroprocessing Subproject have been reviewed by the team of environmental experts 
employed by Heilongjiang in accordance with Part A.2 of this Schedule and revised on 
the basis of said team’s comments thereon, if any; and
(c)
if said Agroprocessing Subproject is expected to involve the involuntary 
resettlement of persons, it includes a resettlement plan for said persons which has 
been developed in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Schedule.
5.
No expenditure for an Agroprocessing Subproject shall be eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of an Agroprocessing Sub-loan unless Heilongjiang shall have 
furnished to the Bank the appraisal report (including, if applicable, the resettlement 
plan) for said Agroprocessing Subproject and said Agroprocessing Sub-loan shall have 
been approved by the Bank.
Terms of Agroprocessing Sub-loans
6.
Agroprocessing Sub-loans may be denominated in the currency of the Borrower 
(RMB-denominated Agroprocessing Sub-loans) or in Dollars (Dollar-denominated 
Agroprocessing Sub-loans) and shall be made on the following principal terms.  
(a)
The principal amount of each Agroprocessing Sub-loan repayable by the 
Beneficiary thereof to Heilongjiang shall be the equivalent in the currency of 
denomination (determined on the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and services for 
the Agroprocessing Subproject for which said Agroprocessing Sub-loan is made, and 
shall be repaid over a period not to exceed nine years, inclusive of a grace period 
not to exceed three years.
(b)
Each Beneficiary of an RMB-denominated Agroprocessing Sub-loan shall pay 
to Heilongjiang interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time at an annual rate equal to the rate applicable from time to time to 
loans of the same maturity for similar investments made by the Agricultural Bank of 
China.
(c)
Each Beneficiary of a Dollar-denominated Agroprocessing Sub-loan shall 
pay to Heilongjiang:  (i) interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at an annual rate equal to the sum of (A) the rate 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement, plus (B) a spread of 1.2%; and (ii) a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (0.75%) per annum on the principal amount of said 
Agroprocessing Sub-loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Conditions of Agroprocessing Sub-loans
7.
Each Agroprocessing Sub-loan to a Beneficiary shall be made on conditions 
whereby said Beneficiary shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its agroprocessing operations, including its respective 
Agroprocessing Subproject, with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound 
financial, managerial, and agroprocessing practices, and consistent with appropriate 
health, safety and environmental practices acceptable to the Bank, and provide 
promptly as needed the funds, and other resources required for the purpose, and 
Page  9
maintain adequate records and accounts;
(b)
prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
Heilongjiang not later than November 1 in each calendar year for consolidation and 
forwarding to the Bank for review in accordance with the provisions of Part A.3 of 
this Schedule, a plan of activities proposed to be implemented under its respective 
Agroprocessing Subproject during the following calendar year, and thereafter, 
implement such plan of activities as shall have been approved by the Bank during said 
following year;
(c)
if its respective Agroprocessing Subproject involves the involuntary 
resettlement of persons, take and cause to be taken all measures necessary to ensure 
that all such persons shall be resettled in accordance with the resettlement plan 
referred to Part C.4(c) of this Schedule;
(d)
procure the goods, works and services required for its respective 
Agroprocessing Subproject in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement and under arrangements acceptable to the Bank whereby Heilongjiang’s 
provincial-level Project management office shall undertake all such procurement 
required to be carried out on the basis of international or national competitive 
bidding procedures and all such procurement of consultants’ services, on behalf of 
said enterprise, and utilize said goods and works exclusively in the carrying out of 
said Agroprocessing Sub-project;
(e)
take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks and in such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice, including such insurance 
to cover the hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation, and delivery of 
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, 
any indemnity thereunder to be payable in a currency freely usable by the enterprise 
to replace or repair such goods;
(f)
enable the Bank to inspect the goods and the sites and works included in 
its respective Agroprocessing Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
(g)
at all times maintain and operate its equipment and facilities, and from 
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound engineering, financial and industry practices;
(h)
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, (ii) have its records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and (iii) furnish to the Bank and 
Heilongjiang as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the 
end of each such year, certified copies of its financial statements for such year as 
so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank or Heilongjiang shall have reasonably requested; and
(i)
(i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank the implementation of 
its Agroprocessing Subproject, and the air and waste water emissions from its plants, 
(ii) prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
Heilongjiang for forwarding to the Bank, semiannual reports, not later than January 1 
and July 1 of each year summarizing said monitoring activities carried out during the 
preceding calendar semester, (iii) afford Heilongjiang and the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to exchange views with said enterprise on each said report, and (iv) 
thereafter, promptly take all measures required to ensure the continued efficient 
carrying out of its Agroprocessing Subproject, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the views of the Bank on the matter.
Exercise of Rights
8.
Heilongjiang shall:
(a)
exercise its rights in relation to each Agroprocessing Sub-loan in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, 
Page  10
comply with its obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the 
Project; and
(b)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Agroprocessing Sub-loans, or any portion thereof, without the prior approval of the 
Bank.
D.
Part D of the Project (Institutional Development)
1.
Heilongjiang shall carry out the training under Part D of the Project in 
accordance with training programs acceptable to the Bank.  To this end, Heilongjiang 
shall include in each program of activities furnished to the Bank each year pursuant 
to Part A.3 of this Schedule, a proposed program of training activities to be 
implemented under Part D of the Project during the following calendar year.  Each said 
annual program, shall be designed, inter alia, to ensure that at least 80% of the 
farmers receiving training in livestock management and animal health, and at least 30% 
of the farmers receiving training in aquaculture, shall be women.  Heilongjiang shall 
implement such annual training program during such following year as shall have been 
approved by the Bank.
2.
In order to ensure the sustainability of Heilongjiang’s Animal Breeding Center, 
Heilongjiang shall establish and, commencing not later than June 30, 2000, charge 
prices for the semen produced by said center at levels sufficient to cover the full 
cost of production of said semen.  To that end, Heilongjiang shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank not later than January 1, 2000, the proposed prices of such semen to be so 
charged, together with any information pertaining thereto as the Bank may reasonably 
request, and thereafter, promptly establish such prices, taking into account the 
Bank’s comments on the matter.  Heilongjiang shall review and adjust said prices at 
regular intervals so as to continue to give effect to the objective of ensuring full 
cost recovery of the production of said semen.
3.
In order to ensure the timely implementation of the study of goose profitability 
included in Part D(1)(d) of the Project and the study of environmental and public 
health standards for livestock processing plants included in Part D(3) thereof, 
Heilongjiang shall:
(a)
employ consultants in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.03 of 
this Agreement and of Schedule 1 hereto, not later than December 31, 1997 to assist in 
carrying out said studies;
(b)
ensure that said studies shall be completed and the findings and 
recommendations thereof shall be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 
1998, together with Heilongjiang’s plan for the implementation of said 
recommendations; and
(c)
thereafter, implement said plan, taking into account the comments of the 
Bank on the matter.
E.
Monitoring and Reporting
1.
Heilongjiang shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Heilongjiang shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank:
(a)
semi-annual reports, not later than January 31 and July 31 in each year, 
summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to 
Part E.1 of this Schedule in respect of the preceding calendar semester, consolidating 
the semi-annual reports furnished to it by each Beneficiary pursuant to Part C.7(i) of 
this Schedule, and setting forth the measures recommended to ensure the continued 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the then current calendar semester; and 
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than December 31, 1999, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to Part E.1 of this 
Page  11
Schedule in respect of the period preceding the date thereof, consolidating the 
reports furnished to it by each Beneficiary pursuant to Part C.7(i) of this Schedule, 
and setting forth the measures recommended to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date.
3.
Heilongjiang shall, after furnishing each report referred to in Part E.2 of this 
Schedule, review said report with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required to 
ensure the continued efficient implementation of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report 
and the Bank's views on the matter.
