Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4161-CHA
Loan Agreement
(Heilongjiang Agricultural Development Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 26, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4161-CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  June 26, 1997, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Heilongjiang Province (Heilongjiang, 
as defined in Section 1.02(f) of this Agreement) with the Borrower’s assistance and, 
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Heilongjiang the 
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Heilongjiang;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the 
Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, 
the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, 
the Bank determines that the procurement 
of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received 
notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the 
right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Agricultural Bank of China” means the Agricultural Bank of China, 
established under the laws of the Borrower and operating pursuant to the Circular of 
the Borrower’s State Council on the Restoration of the Agricultural Bank of China, 
dated February 23, 1979 (State Council Document No. (1979) 56) and the Decision of the 
Borrower’s State Council on the Exclusive Exercise of Central Bank Functions by the 
People’s Bank of China, dated September 17, 1983 (State Council Document No. (1983) 
146), as said Circular and Decision may be modified from time to time. 
(b)
“Agroprocessing Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by 
Heilongjiang out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for an Agroprocessing 
Subproject. 
(c)
“Agroprocessing Subproject” means a specific project to be carried out by 
a Beneficiary under Part C of the Project.
(d)
“Beneficiary” means an enterprise to which Heilongjiang proposes to make 
or has made an Agroprocessing Sub-loan. 
(e)
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
(f)
“Heilongjiang” means the Borrower’s Province of Heilongjiang, and any 
successor thereto. 
(g)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Heilongjiang 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(h)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to one 
hundred twenty million dollars ($120,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date 
occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
Page  4
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Heilongjiang to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Heilongjiang therein, shall take or cause to be taken 
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Heilongjiang to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to 
Heilongjiang on the following principal terms:
(i)
the principal amount so made available shall be denominated and 
repayable in 
dollars and shall be recovered by the Borrower over a 
period of twenty years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five 
years;
(ii)
interest shall be charged on the principal amount referred to 
above in subparagraph 
(b)(i) of this Section withdrawn and remaining 
unrecovered from time to time at a 
rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower under the Loan pursuant to Section 
2.05 
of this Agreement; and
(iii)
a commitment fee shall be charged on the principal amount referred 
to above in 
subparagraph (b)(i) of this Section not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate equal 
to three fourths of one percent 
(0.75%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by Heilongjiang pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in subparagraph (a)(i) 
of this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Heilongjiang shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Heilongjiang will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 
5.01(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Heilongjiang and is legally binding upon Heilongjiang 
in accordance with its terms. Section 6.02. The date ninety days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  6
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People’s Republic of China
Cable address: 
Telex:
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Michel Severino
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
               Amount of the
       % of
              Loan Allocated
    Expenditures
Category
    (Expressed in Dollars)    to be Financed
(1)
Works:
Page  7
(a) 
for Parts A
and B of the
Project
   20,200,000           59%
(b)
for Part C of
the Project
    5,500,000           38%
(2)
Goods (including
livestock)
          90,400,000
)        100% of foreign
                    )  expenditures;
                    )  100% of local
                    )  expenditures
                    )  (ex-factory or
                    )  ex-farmgate cost);
                    )  and 75% of local
                    )  expenditures for 
                    )  other items
                    )  procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
          3,900,000
          100%
services,
training and
study tours
               ___________
TOTAL
               120,000,000
               ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$4,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 1, 1996.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account for expenditures for (a) 
works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equivalent, (b) goods under contracts 
costing less than $250,000 equivalent, (c) consultants’ services under contracts 
awarded to consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent, (d) consultants’ 
services under contracts awarded to individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent and (e) training and study tours, to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in raising incomes and 
living standards, promote institutionally and environmentally sound enterprise 
development, and expand rural employment, in rural areas of Heilongjiang.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Livestock 
Page  8
(1)
Expansion of livestock-raising activities undertaken by farmers in Heilongjiang, 
through the provision of livestock and equipment, materials and veterinary services 
and construction of related facilities for dairy farming and cattle raising, pig 
breeding and fattening, fox breeding and goose fattening. 
(2)
Establishment and operation of a goose breeding center at the provincial Animal 
Husbandry Breeding Center in Qiqihar and 9 county hatcheries, supported by about 1,000 
households specialized in breeding geese, through the provision of breeding stock, 
equipment, tools and vehicles and construction of related facilities. 
Part B:
Aquaculture 
Expansion of fish production in Heilongjiang, through the (1) construction, 
rehabilitation and stocking with carp of about 820 hectares of fish ponds to be 
operated by about 725 households in Heilongjiang, (2) restocking of Longhupao Lake, 
covering about 12,000 hectares, with carp, and strengthening of the management of said 
lake, (3) construction and upgrading of stores, pump houses, wells and electric power 
supply lines required for fish ponds and Longhupao Lake, and (4) provision of pumps, 
pipe, transformers, boats, vehicles and equipment.
Part C:
Agroprocessing 
Financing of specific projects to develop and expand the operations of 
agroprocessing facilities, through the provision of loans to selected agroprocessing 
enterprises operating in Heilongjiang.
Part D:
Institutional Development
(1)
Implementation of a program to strengthen livestock support services in 
Heilongjiang, consisting of:  
(a) provision of vehicles required for agricultural extension and artificial 
insemination services; 
(b) development of a livestock management information system for Heilongjiang’s 
Livestock and Information Center, including the provision of computer hardware and 
software and associated equipment; 
(c) upgrading of the semen processing facilities of Heilongjiang’s Animal 
Breeding Center at Harbin, provision of breeding stock for said center and development 
of a commercial embryo transfer program, including provision of equipment and 
materials required therefor; 
(d) carrying out of a study to compare the performance and profitability of 
different breeds of geese;  
(e) upgrading and equipping of about 10 corn and soybean seed processing 
facilities operated by Heilongjiang; and 
(f) research on pasture improvement to raise protein levels of forage material. 
(2)
Provision of (a) training to strengthen the skills of farmers and technical 
personnel in livestock management, animal health and in aquaculture, (b) training and 
study tours to strengthen the skills of provincial-level personnel in animal breeding, 
nutrition and management, and information systems and computer equipment management 
and (c) training and study tours to strengthen the skills of (i) employees of 
agroprocessing enterprises in plant operations and maintenance and (ii) project 
management personnel in business planning, project management, accounting, monitoring 
and administration.
(3)
Carrying out of a study to improve environmental and public health standards for 
the operation of livestock processing plants in Heilongjiang and to improve the 
supervision of compliance with such standards. 
(4)
Strengthening of the efficient operations of the provincial, prefectural, county 
and township offices responsible for management of the Project, through the provision 
of communication, data-processing and other office equipment.
Page  9
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
January 15, 2003
2,545,000
July 15, 2003
2,620,000
January 15, 2004
2,700,000
July 15, 2004
2,780,000
January 15, 2005
2,860,000
July 15, 2005
2,945,000
January 15, 2006
3,030,000
July 15, 2006
3,120,000
January 15, 2007
3,210,000
July 15, 2007
3,305,000
January 15, 2008
3,405,000
July 15, 2008
3,505,000
January 15, 2009
3,605,000
July 15, 2009
3,710,000
January 15, 2010
3,820,000
July 15, 2010
3,935,000
January 15, 2011
4,050,000
July 15, 2011
4,170,000
January 15, 2012
4,290,000
July 15, 2012
4,415,000
January 15, 2013
4,545,000
July 15, 2013
4,680,000
January 15, 2014
4,820,000
July 15, 2014
4,960,000
January 15, 2015
5,105,000
July 15, 2015
5,255,000
January 15, 2016
5,410,000
July 15, 2016
5,570,000
January 15, 2017
5,735,000
July 15, 2017
5,900,000
_________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in 
Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3);
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$7,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Page  10
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and Section 
2.02(a) of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
Page  11
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
