RESTRICTED
Report No    PA- IZZa
Thus report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authonzed orgarnzations
or persons It may not be pubhshed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authonzation The
Bank Group does not accept responsibiity for the accuracy or completeness of the report
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
March 15, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =    TL 14
TL 1           -    US$0.071
TL 1,000,000   =    US$71,429
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)               =    2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)
- 1,000 kg                       2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)
- 100 ha               2         0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m     =    2.47 acres
1 meter (m)                   =    1.09 yard
1 millimeter (mm)             =    0.0394 inch
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ABT  -    Agricultural Bank of Turkey
ASO  -    Agricultural Supply Organization
LDP  -    General Directorate of Livestock
Development Projects
SPO  -    State Planning Organization
TL-  -    Turkish Lira
GOVERNMENT AND ABT FISCAL YEAR
March 1 - February 28



TURKEY
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................    i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  .........................................1
IT.    BACKGROUND ...........................................1
*                          A.    General  .........................................
B.    The Agricultural Sector .........................                    2
Contribution to the Economy  ....             ............    2
Agricultural Growth  ........................                 3
Village Organization  .......................                 3
The Livestock Subsector  ....................                 4
C.    Agricultural Credit .............................                    6
III. THE PROJECT.                                                                   8
A. General Description                 .           .                       8
B. Detailed Features                 ..                                    8
Village Sub-Project  ..........        . ............        8
Fattening Sub-Project  ......... ..           ...........    10
Consultants and Technical Services  ....... ..               11
Technical Studies and Training  ...........           ..     11
C.    Cost Estimates  ..................................                  11
D.    Financing ...................             ....................      12
E.    Procurement  ..................            ...................      13
F.    Disbursement          ..................     ..................     14
G.    Accounts and Audit  .............        ..     ...............     15
IL.   Organization and Management  ........ ..             ...........    15
I.    Lending Operations  .............        ..     ...............     16
IV.   MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS  ....                ............   18
A.    Markets  .........................................                  18
B.    Prices  ..........................................                  18
C.    Producer Benefits  ................................    19
D.    Revenue Generation ..............................                   20
This appraisal report is based on the findings of an IDA mission to Turkey
in June/July  1971, composed of Messrs. J. Fransen and D. B. Argyle (IDA) and
T. Bodkin and D. Mitchell (Consultants). Mr. Argyle had primary responsi-
bility for its preparation.



-2-
Page No..
V.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................       20
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHTED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....    ........   21
ANNEXES
1.  The Livestock Subsector
2.  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
3.   Development Projections
Village Livestock Development Sub-Project
0
Private Farms
Table 1 - Investment Projection
Table 2 - Herd Development Projection
Table 3 - Flock Development Projection
Table 4 - Income and Operating Exnenses Projection
Table 5 - Financial Projection
Irrigation Groups
Table 6 - Investment Projection
Table 7 - Income, Operating Expenses and Cash Flow
Table 8 - Benefits to Members
Common Meadow Groups
Table 9 - Investment Projection
Table 10- Income, Operating Expenses and Cash Flow
Table 11- Benefits to Members
Machinery Sub-borrowers
Table 12- Investment Projection
Table 13- Income, Operating Expenses and Cash Flow
Purebred Bull Stud Groups
Table 14- Investments, Income, Operating Expenses
and Cash Flow Projection
Fattening Sub-Project
Cattle Fatteners
Table 15- Investment Projection
Table 16- Income and Operating Expenses Proiection
Table 17- Financial Projection
Sheep Fatteners
Table 18- Investment Projection
Table 19- Income and Operating Expenses Projection
Table 20- Financial Projection



- 3 -
4.   Project Cost by Major Investment Items
5.   Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursements of a US$16 Million Credit
6.   Management and Technical Services
Table 1        Cost Projections
Appendix 1     Organization Chart
Appendix 2     Duties and Responsibilities of the Consultants
Appendix 3     Duties and Responsibilities of the Sub-Project
Managers
7.   Sources and Application of Funds
Table 1        Projected Source and Application of Funds of ABT's
Second Livestock Project Account
Table 2        Project Cash Flow Forecast
8.   Financial and Economic Rates of Return
Table 1        Financial Rates of Return
Table 2        Economic Rate of Return
Appendix 1     Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate
of Return Calculations
MAP
Project Areas
0






TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Second Livestock Development Project
in Turkey. It consists of two interrelated subprojects: one for village
livestock development in Northeastern Highlands of Turkey (Northeast); the
other for livestock fattening, mainly in the adjoining Anatolian Plateau.
The Project is part of Turkey's Second Five-Year Plan (1968 to 1972 inclusive).
The Plan's objectives in the livestock subsector are to meet the growing
demand for milk products and meat, and to gradually expand the currently
small exports of live animals and meat. Milk production will be assisted by
the US$4.5 million IDA Credit (236-TU of February 22, 1971), the :tntensive
Dairy Production Project. The proposed Project aims at augmenting both meat
and milk production by increasing both cattle and sheep breeding herds and
offtake in the Northeast, and through fattening this underfinished offtake
eand other available animals, mainly in the adjacent lnatolian Plateau, to
heavier weights prior to slaughter. A third project is currently under
preparation and would feature additional facilities for processing and
marketing meat.
ii.       Government has selected the Northeast to initiate the meat and
secondary milk products production phase because the greatest single con-
centration of breeding animals is located here. The objectives would be
achieved through subloans and technical services to small farmers under the
Village Livestock Development Sub-Project (Village Sub-Project). Rural life
there centers around the village. Farmers live in the villages and produce
subsistence crops (mainly wheat) and graze their animals (their only real
source of eventual cash -- through sale of milk products and live animals)
on surrounding small farms and Government-owned communal grazing lands. During
the past two decades, the need for more wheat for local human consimaption
and the resulting encroachment on some of the better grazing and forage
production lands, caused livestock production to suffer. At the same time
livestock numbers increased, but inadequate forage and grazing resulted in
little increase in meat and milk output. Through the Village Sub-Project,
the goal would be to increase forage production through better varieties,
fertilizer use, increased wheat yields, reduction of fallow aad other improved
practices. Increased wheat yields could free additional land for more
forage production.
iii.      The Village Sub-Project would involve about 250 villages.  Subloans
would be made to about 5,000 individual farmers. These would finance:
purchase of livestock; purchase of fertilizer and seeds for cereal and
forage crops, and for improvement of permanent pasture land; and purchase
of animal drawn machinery and construction of livestock barns. Subloans would
also be made to about 100 cooperatives or groups of farmers to improve the
infrastructure of existing small irrigation works; about 80 cooperatives
or groups of farmers for fertilizer and seed to improve communally utilized
pasture land and meadow land; and about 50 cooperatives or groups to



- ii -
purchase purebred bulls and construct barns. Subloans for about 200 tractors
and other machinery would be made to groups and individual farmers both for
their own use and to provide ploughing and other services to other farmers.
iv.       The Fattening Sub-Project would finance about 1,600 small scale
cattle and sheep fatteners who would annually fatten about 100,000 cattle
and 240,000 sheep in the Anatolian Plateau and Coastal Plains. Its
principal aim is to increase the weight of animals before slaughter and
thereby the yield of meat, to satisfy a rising domestic demand for more
and better quality meat. Subloans would be made for feedlot buildings and
facilities, and for incremental working capital for the purchase of feeder
cattle and feed.
v.        Project livestock technicians of the General Directorate for
Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Agriculture would
assist both farmers and fatteners. The Managers for each Sub-Project and
their staffs would be Turkish, but Government has requested external tech-
nical services to supplement their limited experience with long-term
livestock development lending, and the Project so provides.
vi.       The Credit would be made to Government on normal IDA terms and
it would bear the foreign exchange risk.  Government would on-lend the
funds to the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (ABT) for a period of 14 years,
including a five-year grace period, at 5% interest per annum. ABT would
on-lend to sub-borrowers at 9% with repayment over 7 to 12 years. ABT would
place 1% in a Special Operational Fund to pay part of the operating costs
of the LDP. The spread available to ABT would therefore be 3%.
vii,      Total Project cost is estimated at US$28.3 million, -- about US$14.9
million for the Village Sub-Project, US$10.3 million for the Fattening Sub-
Project, and US$3.1 million for technical services and studies. Financing
of the Project would be approximately as follows: subborrowers, 16%
(US$4.7 million); Government, 6%' (US$1.6 million); ABT, 21% (US$6.0 mil-
lion); and IDA, 57% (US$16.0 million).  The proposed IDA Credit of US$16.0
million would finance foreign exchange costs of US$6.5 million and local
costs of US$9.5 million.
viii.     Procurement of tractors and vehicles would be by international
competitive bidding. Other Project goods would be procured by individual
sub-borrowers through normal commercial channels which include private
traders, state trading entities and cooperatives. The small size of indi-
vidual purchases and contracts, the great variety of goods to be procured
and the phasing of sub-loans to sub-borrowers and their investments would
render bulking of procurement and international tendering impractical. An
adequate selection of goods, both local and imported, is available to sub-
borrowers.
ix.       The expected benefits to sub-borrowers and the overall economy
are satisfactory.  The rate of return of the ProJect to the economy is
estimated at 20%, while the financial rate of return on the incremental



- iii -
investments made on individual farms in the Village Sub-Project is 19%,
and for individual fattening operations 25% to 29%. Rates of return for the
groups or cooperatives range from 31% to 36% and for the machinery sub-
borrowers 22%. Sub-borrowers cash balances after debt service would be
adequate to encourage their participation. At full development, the Project
would generate an additional 6,300 m ton of beef and 29,000 m ton of milk
annually. It would also generate an annual flow of 5,000 improved heifers
for development of other areas.
x.   The Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$16.0 million.
The Borrower would be the Government of Turkey.
0
.



S
6



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Turkey is seeking IDA finance to provide long
term funds for village livestock development in Northeastern Turkey
(Northeast) and for fattening cattle and sheep, mainly in the adjoining
Anatolian Plateau.  The proposed Project would be part of Turkey's Second
Five-Year Plan (1968-72) for increasing livestock production. IDA Credit
236-TU for US$4.5 million was approved in 1971 to help finance another
part of the Plan - the Intensive Dairy Production Project - which became
effective in December, 1971. Other loans and credits for the agricultural
sector are:  US$25 million in 1971 for fruit and vegetable export (IDA
Credit 257-TU and Bank Loan 762-TU); US$24 million in 1963 (IDA Credit 143-TU
and Bank Loan 587-TU) and US$20 million in 1963 (IDA Credit 38-TU) for
irrigation; US$11 million in 1952 for general agriculture (Bank Loan 63-TU);
and US$2.9 million in 1950 for grain storage (Bank Loan 27-TU).
1.02      The Project, which would provide funds to assist about 5,000
individual farmers and a number of groups of villagers in the Northeast,
the main surplus cattle producing region in the country, could be the fore-
runner of a number of subsequent projects throughout much of Turkey. It
would also assist an estimated 1,600 livestock fatteners, mainly in the
Anatolian Plateau, who would fatten cattle and sheep now being slaughtered
in an underfinished condition. The Credit, which would be for US$16 million,
would help Turkey meet its rising internal demands for meat and dairy products
and to gradually expand exports of live animals and meat.
1.03      The Project was prepared by the General Directorate for Livestock
Development Projects (LDP) and the Turkish State Planning Office (SPO),
assisted by FAO missions that visited Turkey between November 1967 and
March 1969.  A follow-up preappraisal mission was made in October 1970 by
an IDA group led by Mr. J. Fransen.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
to Turkey in June/July 1971, composed of Messrs. J. Fransen and B. Argyle
(IDA), and T. Bodkin and D. Mitchell (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Much of Turkey consists of the undulating to hilly Anatolian
Plateau, rising to the more mountainous Eastern Highlands near the USSR
and Iranian borders.  A generally fertile plain of variable wldth occurs
around the coastal regions. The areas close to the coast, and covering
about a third of the country, have a generally mild climate, but the
remaining two-thirds has a fairly rigorous pattern of cold winters, with
frequent frosts, and hot dry summers. In the eastern part of Turkey, the



growing season, without irrigation, lasts only about three months and, with
irrigation, only about six months.
2.02      Turkey in the past has suffered from large balance of payments
deficits which amounted to about US$200 million per annum from 1968 to 1970.
Mainly as a result of the rapidly increasing remittances from Turkish workers
in Europe, which rose to about US$270 million in 1970 and are expected to
increase substantially in 1971, the position should improve.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Of Turkey's some 78 million ha, around 24 million (31%) is used
for field crops, with another 2.4 million ha (3%) devoted to horticulture.
Pastures occupy about 26 million ha, (33%) most of which are overgrazed.  Ac-               0
cording to recent estimates, approximately 18 million ha, (23%) of the total,
are in forests. Considerable amounts of marginal lands are cultivated and
about one-third of the area cropped is left fallow each year. On the Central
Anatolian Plateau, much of the area used for crops is one-half in cereals
and one-half left fallow annually. Erosion has become a serious threat to
many areas due to improper land management, particularly overgrazing and the
ploughing of slopes.
2.04      Turkish agriculture is characterized by significant regional
differences:- the coastal regions (Mediterranean, Aegean, Thrace and
Marmara, and Black Sea) are the most productive agriculturally; the
Anatolian Plateau produces mostly cereals in traditional farming under
dry-land conditions; and the more isolated Eastern Highlands has livestock
as the most important economic activity. Although most coastal areas
receive adequate rainfall, distribution frequently is unreliable. On the
Anatolian Plateau and Eastern Highlands, rainfall is both low and unreliable.
Contribution to the Economy
2.05      Agriculture is a crucial sector in the economy of Turkey.  Although
the agricultural sector (farming, forestry and fishing) contributes only
about 30% of the GNP it provides some 70% of total employment, supplies much
of the raw materials for industry, and accounts for the bulk of the country's
exports. In 1969, for example, agricultural exports, mainly cotton, tobacco,
fruits and nuts, came to approximately US$405 million 1/, or about 75% of
Turkey's total export earnings. The agricultural sector is also an important
market for domestic manufacturers, particularly of fertilizer, pesticides
and agricultural machinery, as well as consumer goods.
2.06      Cereals, mainly wheat, which uses about 70% of total area cropped,
account for about 25% of the total value in agricultural production. The
production of fruits and vegetables, which has expanded significantly in
recent years, accounts for another 20% of total value, while industrial
crops (cotton, tobacco, sugarbeet and potatoes) and oilseeds rank next among
1/   At exchange rate prior to August 1970 of US$1.00 = TL 9.00.



-3-
crops in both volume and value of output. The contribution of the livestock
subsector amounts to about 30% of the total, while the contributions of
forestry and fishing are relatively minor.
Agricultural Growth
2.07      Turkish agricultural growth in the 1950's averaged about 5% per
annum, due mainly to the rapid expansion of the cultivated area, especially
of wheat. In recent years, however, the sector has lagged behind the rest
of the economy and generally fallen short of the targets of the First (1963-
67) and Second (1968-72) Development Plans. From 1962 to 1970, annual growth
of net output averaged only 2.9% for agriculture, compared with 6.6% for the
economy as a whole. The slower agricultural growth since the 1950's reflected
the fact that the limit of cultivable land had been reached and the possibi-
lities of expanding traditional agriculture at its existing level of tech-
nology largely exhausted.  In addition, marketing of many of the traditional
products (e.g. sugar, tobacco and tea) had become more difficult. Subsequent
growth had to rely largely on improving technology such as the use of improved
varieties and fertilizers and the extension of irrigation. Weather remains
a key factor and output for 1971 is expected to be up sharply due to excellent
seasonal conditions throughout Turkey. Wheat requirements should be met
and exports of agricultural commodities increased.
2.08      To increase agricultural production Government is encouraging and
financing a number of avenues with good potential. These include: improving
and completing irrigation schemes; developing the livestock industry for
the excellent market that exists both locally and for export; increasing
production of fruit and vegetables, which have a good local and export
demand; increasing wheat production, particularly on the Anatolian Plateau;
and expanding credit for the above purposes. Two Bank Group projects
have been approved for irrigation and one was recently approved for fruit
and vegetables.
Village Organization
2.09      Turkish rural life centers around the village.  The inhabitants
normally reside in the village and farm the surrounding countryside. In
most of the Anatolian Plateau and Eastern Highlands, each villager usually
owns (either by registered title or through general recognition of ownership
based on continued occupancy or use) areas of crop and meadow land and
shares Government owned pasture and meadow land with the rest of the village.
The communally utilized land may range from highly productive meadows close
to the village to unproductive high pasture land two days' walk away.
2.10      Each village has an elected headman (Mukhtar) who acts as spokesman
and representative of the community and usually remains in office for four
years. As the head of the village council, the Mukhtar has substantial
influence on any changes occurring in a village, even those mainly affecting
individuals. In the case of individual borrowing for, say, livestock
development, most farmers would seek guidance from the Mulditar and his
reactions would have considerable bearing on their decisions. Thus, in
villages where the Mukhtar actively encourages such development, there is



-4-
likely to be a great deal more progress than there would be in a village
where the Mukhtar is opposed.
The Livestock Subsector
2.11      General.  The livestock subsector (Annex 1) is particularly
important in the country's eastern areas. Production, however, has failed to
keep pace with a fast-growing demand. Against a projected annual increase
of 4.6% in consumption during 1967-72, output in 1968 and 1969 expanded only
3.1% and 3.5% respectively. As a result of shortfalls in supply over the past
several years, prices have risen substantially, and at a faster rate than
wholesale prices in general. Exports of live animals, mainly sheep to
adjoining Middle-East countries, are worth about US$15 to US$20 million per
annum.  Because of the limited availability of animals these exports have
not expanded despite a strong demand in the importing countries ind the high                0
prices being paid. Present livestock numbers are estimated to be about 14.5
million cattle, 36 million sheep and 21 million goats.
2.12      Turkey has a good resource base for livestock development -- a
potential which is being only partially realized. Much of its sluggish per-
formance results from following traditional production patterns established
when grazing pressures were much less. Livestock are on a low level of
nutrition throughout most of the year resulting from pastures being generally
overgrazed and farmers making poor use of supplementary fodder crops. Live-
stock performance is also low because the local breeds have limited potential
- although they respond to improved management.
2.13      Livestock Policies.  Because of the mixed nature of much of Turkey's
agriculture, Government's livestock policies and their effects are closely
related to policies for wheat.   During the 1950's, rising demand resulted in
the need to import substantial quantities of wheat and Government introduced
support programs and other policies which encouraged its production on lands
previously used for grazing and forage production.  The result has been
increased wheat production but little increase in total meat and milk pro-                  0
duction, and shortfalls in their supply. Current Government policy now
favours intensification of both livestock and wheat production through
improved methods and increased mechanization. The increased use of
fertilizers and improved seed varieties should improve the yield of both
forage crops and wheat and reduce the need for fallow. With sufficient
improvements in yields, the total area of wheat and fallow may decline,
particularly in the Northeast where most farmers grow wheat for their own
use only. This would result in more area for pasture and fodder crops, and
hence increased livestock production.
2.14      In order to improve the overall performance of the livestock sub-
sector, Government has embarked upon a General Livestock Development Program,
which includes breeding, fattening, dairy production, and the establishment
of modern livestock markets and slaughterhouses. Government policy is
particularly aimed at increasing the production and offtake from the tradi-
tional livestock breeding areas such as the Northeast and at increasing,
through intensive fattening, the average weight of animals slaughtered and
thereby the quality and yield of meat. It hopes, not only to meet rising
domestic demand, but also to maintain or even expand the current amount of



-5-
live animals and meat exported. The proposed Second Livestock Development
Project would assist Government with both of these objectives.
2.15      Animal Nutrition.  A major obstacle to achieving a productive
livestock industry is the general lack of proper feeding practices. Animals
generally are grazed on communal pastures, crop residues and stubble, and
fallow land.  Pastures on the whole are overstocked and overgrazed.  While
the number of animals increased over the past 20 years at an average annual
rate of about 2%, the area of pasture and meadow lands declined from about 38
million ha in 1950 to approximately 26 million ha in 1970. Moreover, under
the pressures of increased numbers, the quality of existing grazing lands
has deteriorated. The result has been an increasing proportion of the limited
feed being used for maintenance and only small increases in milk and meat
production. For part of the period when livestock are grazing nutrition is
inadequate. Because of the climate prevailing in most interior areas,
livestock must be housed and fully fed for three to five months each year.
As the fodder conserved is often low in quality and sometimes in quantity,
livestock usually have a maintenance level of nutrition over this period.
This is especially harsh for young and growing animals and is a major factor
in the high mortality rates of these animals.
2.16      Disease.  Diseases and internal parasites also reduce animal
performance, particularly in livestock weakened by lack of proper feeding.
Unventilated, humid and dark livestock barns further contribute to animal
health problems. However, most diseases can be controlled by proper animal
health programs which farmers can carry out themselves with appropriate
guidance. The General Directorate of Veterinary Services (para 2.21) carries
out free vaccination for the major infectious diseases, such as foot and
mouth and rinderpest, and these are kept under control.
2.17      Fattening.  As a result of poor nutrition and diseases, most
livestock, particularly cattle, are marketed by their original owners before
they reach a weight suitable for slaughter. Many of these underfinished
animals are slaughtered, but some are bought and fattened for about 100 days
by specialist fatteners mainly in central and western Turkey, who use
straw, hay, sugar beet pulp, molasses, cereals and other feed stuffs. There
is an unsatisfied demand for better quality meat, particularly in Istanbul
and Ankara, and the fattening industry is growing, although it is hampered
by lack of finance.
2.8       Marketing and Prices.  Except for the larger cities, livestock
products are marketed in a long established traditional pattern. Milk
is sold to village manufacturers for production of yoghurt and cheese. Live
animals are marketed in local sale-yards, primarily to agents and middlemen
who ship them to the main fattening and consuming areas on the Anatolian
Plateau and Coastal Plains.
2.19      The relative prices of animals, livestock products and feedstuffs
in the past have tended to inhibit production of feedstuffs, particularly
in view of the attractive prices and, in most cases, more assured markets
for wheat. Rises in prices, however, have now begun to favor the expansion
of livestock as well as feedstuff production and should encourage farLmers



-6 -
to grow fodder crops. Such crops could be attractive on a rotation basis
with cereals, as has been shown by a small percentage of farmers.
2.20      Livestock Services.  There are numerous Government agencies whose
responsibilities include extension and research and extend to the village or
farmer level. Overall, however, services are patchy in distribution and
uneven in quality, with effectiveness often reduced by lack of vehicles
and operating funds. The General Directorate of Agriculture is the major
agency responsible for agricultural extension, and to each of its provincial
offices (about 60) it assigns an animal husbandry specialist. These specialists
give advice to the 1,800 agricultural extenision officers stationed in counties
and villages.
2.21      The General Directorate of Veterinary Services has 1,300
professional veterinarians concerned with animal health, animal husbandry,
breeding and production, food inspection and such. In addition, a field
staff of almost 2,000, less than half of whom are veterinarians, operate
field (mainly inspectional) services, diagnostic laboratories (21) and
state farms (19). Principal functions relate to inspection and control
of animal diseases.
2.22      In 1969, Government created, within the Ministry of Agriculture,
the General Directorate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP) to provide
technical assistance to internationally assisted livestock development
projects, of which the Intensive Dairy Production Project (236-TU) is the
first. Staff numbers are presently small but will be increased as workload
increases.
2.23      Turkey has numerous research stations and institutes attached to
various Government Ministries and Directorates and until recently there was
little coordination between them. Recent changes in the administration of
research stations, whereby the Grassland and Animal Husbandry Institute
coordinates research for grassland and animal husbandry should improve
coordination, direct research along more applied lines and reduce unnecessary                6
duplication in these fields. The country has a number of universities where
agricultural graduates are trained and research carried out. These include
the University of Erzurum in the Northeast which has a good research program
and is providing useful guidelines for Ministry of Agriculture staff and
others on fertilizer rates, crop and pasture species and livestock feeding
in that area.
C. Agricultural Credit
2.24      Almost all the institutional credit available to farmers in Turkey
is provided by the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (ABT). ABT is a semi-autonomous
body, wholly owned by the Turkish Government, subject to the Banking Law
of 1958, and governed by a six-member Board of Directors appointed by the
CXouncll of Ministers (Cabinet).  Its purpose is to finance agricultural,
tf1Is4ry atntd forestry production and marketing and allied activities.  ABT
has about 750 branches and holds about 25% (about US$700 million) of
all deposits in the banking system.  Assets on December 31, 1970 totaled
TL 18,312 million (US$1,300 million). Though profit is not its primary



objective, ABT is administered as a profit-making institution and all profits
are reinvested.
2.25      Eighty percent of its lending is short-term, much of it highly
standardized, with fixed amounts per ha according to crop purpose, but it
has been attempting to extend its medium- and long-term lending. ABT is
short of resources, particularly for long-term lending, and cannot meet
all of the credit requirements of farmers. In 1964, it began a supervised
medium- and long-term credit scheme, based on farm planning and technical
guidance and, in 1969, created a Project Loans Department to include the
previous scheme and also a separate division, the Encouragement and Develop-
ment Loan Division, to handle mainly internationally financed projects
and larger projects in irrigation, livestock, export promotion, food
processing, agricultural chemicals, transportation, and storage. This
Division has been designated to handle the financial aspects of the Intensive
Dairy Production Project (236-TU) and the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project
(257-TU and 762-TU).  Further details of ABT are in Annex 2.
2.26      ABT interest rates for most agricultural loans are effectively
9% per annum. 1/ Special lower rates are laid down for certain types of
lending, e.g. export promotion. Commercial (non-agricultural) interest
rates have a legal maximum of 11.5% per annum.  Since most of ABT's lending
is to numerous small farmers (2.2 million borrowers with loans averaging
TL2,000 (US$140) in 1970), overall costs of administration are high. Profits
are small and have been declining in recent years. Agricultural loans in
arrears more than doubled between 1968 and 1970 partly due to the severe
drought that affected much of Turkey in 1969. While ABT anticipates that
most of these arrears will be recovered, particularly following the good
seasonal conditions in 1971, this trend is of some concern as total arrears
now equal paid in capital and reserves. Build up of arrears will increase
ABT's supervision costs and reduce the effectiveness of its lending.  A
comprehensive credit study is being financed under the Fruit and Vegetable
Export Project aimed at improving the organization and supply of agricultural
credit. However, ABT's Project Loans Department has an acceptable record
and a staff well trained in banking practices.
2.27      Lending to farmers in Turkey relies to a large extent on personal
guarantees particularly for small seasonal loans. Larger loans are generally
secured by first mortgages. In eastern Turkey some villages have not had a
cadastral survey and hence farmers do not have titles to their land. Their
ownership is recognized through long usage and title can be obtained through
local courts by proving 20 years of peaceful possession.  However, the costs
of registering land are substantial and the time required lengthy. Under
1/   Prior to the monetary reforms of August 1970, interest rates to farmers
were about 7% for medium- and long-term and 9% for short-ternm loans.
Under the reform Government increased interest rates .or loans to farmers
to 9% when the funds originated from Government (e.g. IDA Credits).
Where funds originated from ABT's own sources, interest was to be 10-1/2%
of which 1-1/2% would be provided by Government subsidies still leaving
the farmer to pay 9%. These subsidies have not been paid to ABT so that
the effective rate to ABT is 9% for general agricultural lending.



- 8 -
these circumstances, ABT relies on personal guarantees. Specific provision
is made under supervised credit loans for granting loans without mortgage
security. ABT does a large amount of its lending through various sales and
other cooperatives. Loans are also made to small cooperatives for development
of irrigation and other purposes. ABT obtain joint signatures and guarantees
for this type of lending.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Second Livestock Development Project is essentially
an integrated credit program directed at the development of Turkey's live-
stock industry as part of Government's Second Five-Year Plan.  It comprises                 6
two sub-projects: (a) a Village Livestock Development Sub-Project (Village
Sub-Project) in the Northeast to stimulate increased production of meat and
milk; and (b) a Fattening Sub-Project, focusing on the main fattening
districts particularly in the Anatolian Plateau and Coastal Plains (see Map).
In addition, the Project would assist in the development of a professional
technical services group in the LIP and an equally competent lending group
in ABT. The LDP would be responsible for technical direction of the Project
and ABT would be the lending channel. Subloans to participants in the two
sub-projects would be made by ABT on the basis of development plans prepared
by the LDP.
3.02      The main components of the Project can be summarized as follows:
Number of  Project Cost    % Total
Components                  Loans    US$ Millions  Project Cost
Village Sub-Project
Private Farms                  5,000         12.1            43
Irrigation Groups                 100         0.4             1
Common Meadow Groups              80          0.8             3
Purebred Livestock Groups          50         0.1             1
Machinery Sub-borrowers           200         1.5             5
Fattening Sub-Project             1,600        10.3            36
Technical Services and
Consultants                      -            2.7            10
Technical Studies and Training    -             0.4             1
Total                  7,030         28.3           100
B. Detailed Features
Village Sub-Project
3.03      Under the Village Sub-Project, subloans would be extended to
individuals and groups in about 250 villages in the Northeast. The number
of villages was kept small and concentrated in groups to ensure a greater



-9-
initial impact in keeping with the limited existing technical services
of the LDP. The proposed villages were selected following an intensive
survey in 1970 by LDP and other Ministry of Agriculture Directorates and
State Planning Organization personnel, assisted by FAO. Factors taken into
account were the progressive attitude of villagers, importance of livestock,
ease of supervision and access. Selected villages are grouped within 1I
counties of Kars, Erzurum and Agri provinces to facilitate supervision.
These three provinces have the greatest concentration (about 13%) of breeding
animals in Turkey.
3.04      The Sub-Project would be aimed at increasing livestock production
through improvements in forage production and feeding, management and types
of livestock. Supplies of livestock forage would be increased by including
a forage crop phase on arable land and by improving permanent grazing and
meadow hay lands. Animal husbandry would also be improved by provisioln of
better housing, technical assistance and disease control.  Livestock would
be upgraded to take full advantage of the improved fodder base and manage-
ment. Cereal yields would be raised to maintain total cereal production
on a smaller area of land thus freeing more land for forage production.
The Sub-Project would also, by providing funds for the development of
common grazing and meadow hay land, introduce a new and potentially
important type of lending for livestock development in Turkey. Finance
would be provided for: (a) development on about 5,000 private farms;
(b) development of common meadows by about 80 groups 1/; (c) improvemient of
small scale irrigation schemes by about 100 groups; (d) building of barns
and purchase of purebred bulls by about 50 groups; and (e) purchase of about
200 tractors and other machinery by groups and individual farmers. See Annex
3 Tables 1 to 14 for details.
3.05      An estimated 5,000 village farmers would receive individual
subloans for private farm development. A typical farmer in this area would
own about 10 ha of land; 6 ha of arable well-drained land used on a
rotation and 4 ha of low-lying meadow land used mainly for meadow hay
production. In addition, each farmer has access to communal low-lying
meadow land and highland grazing areas.  A typical farmer would grow enough
wheat for his own use and would have about a dozen cattle and a s±milar
number of sheep. Subloans made to individual farmers would encompass all
aspects of their mixed farming and would usually include funds for: establish-
ing forage crops to increase production of good quality hay and improve crop
yields as a result of improved soil fertility; improving the lower lying
meadow land through fertilizers, improved pasture seeds, drainage, fencing
and weed control; providing fertilizer to improve cereal yields; purchasing
local improved livestock mainly Brown Swiss bulls and Brown Swiss crossbred
1/   The term "group" used in the report refers to cooperatives or other
mutually liable partnerships of farmers to jointly improve either
communal lands or their individual properties. Individual farmers in
the groups may also have individual loans under the Project but many
would not. There are many irrigation cooperatives and a number of
pure-bred bull stud groups in Turkey and ABT lends to them cn the
basis of joint signatures and guarantees.



- 10 -
heifers; building new barns and improving existing ones and purchasing
simple animal drawn hay making and other machinery to increase production
and improve the nutritional quality of hay.
3.06      Many villages have areas of low--lying common meadow lands which are
used for meadow hay with each villager having certain rights. Production
from these meadows could be substantially improved by drainage, fertilizer,
improved pasture seeds, levelling, weed control and a limited amount of
fencing. About 80 groups would improve an estimated 12,000 ha of land.
Groups for development of common meadow lands would be a logical extension
of the present systems, under which either the hay is cut and then divided
or each villager is entitled to the hay from a specific area. By majority
vote, the village council can modify the use of communal property or make
adjustments for any changes that occur through development. The Mukhtar
and the village council would, in most cases, be responsible for ensuring
the repayment of the debt.  Common meadow land lending would be a new and                  6
to some extent experimental activity. The benefits, both economic and
social, could be substantial and could lead to similar development affecting
a large proportion of Turkey's rural population.
3.07      Irrigation groups would be formed in villages where irrigation
is already practiced. In many villages, there is a limited supply of water
from local streams and often groups within a village will have small
rudimentary irrigation systems primarily for use on privately-owned areas
but occasionally for communal lands as well. Because of the limited
duration of water flow and the short growing season (maximum of six months)
only limited investment would be profitable. Irrigation facilities would
be improved by rehabilitation of existing and construction of new channels
and provision of pumps and headworks. About 100 groups would benefit from
improved water supplies to an estimated 3,000 ha of land.
3.08      Funds would also be provided for about 50 purebred bull stud
groups. A number of farmers would form a group to build a barn and purchase
several purebred Brown Swiss bulls for their own use and for renting to
other farmers.
3.09      Funds would be provided for the purchase of tractors and associated
machinery by groups or individual farmers for their own use and for providing
custom services to other farmers. At present, most farmers use ox-drawn
ploughs, and soil preparation and weed control are poor. Contract ploughing
would therefore be profitable for many as it would result in better crops.
This would also increase livestock output since fewer bullocks would be need-
ed for draft, which would allow more animals to be used for beef production.
Sub-borrowers would usually purchase a 45 hp tractor, a three furrow plough and
a 3 ton trailer and may also purchase other equipment such as a leveler,
seed drill and a stationary cereal harvester and hay baler.
Fattening Sub-Project
3.10      The Fattening Sub-Project would increase small-scale livestock
feedlot operations in a number of provinces throughout Turkey, but mainly
in the Anatolian Plateau as part of a wider Government program of livestock
fattening.



- 11 -
3.11      The proposed Sub-Project would involve the fattening annually of
an additional 100,000 cattle and 240,000 sheep at full development (see
Annex 3, Tables 15 to 20 for further details). It is expected thac new
producers would fatten about 30% of this number and existing specialist
fatteners the balance. Finance would be available for the construction
or renovation of feeding barns and storage facilities, and for provision
of the incremental working capital required for the purchase of livestock
and feed, (para 3.31). Approximately 1,000 cattle and 600 sheep fatteners
are expected to participate with feedlot size ranging from 20 to 50 cattle
or 80 to 200 sheep per intake. All feeders would fatten two intakes, for
about 100 days each, over the autumn/winter period, while about 50% of them
-those in the more favorably situated areas - would fatten a third intake
in the spring.
Consultants and Technical Services
3.12      Project related technical services, described in paragraphs 3.25
and 3.26 would involve about 50 technicians for the Village Sub-Project
and 15 for the Fattening Sub-Project, and three consultants. These techni-
cians would be fully employed in Project work and be additional to Ministry
of Agriculture officials already in the Project area. The full cost of
these technical services over the disbursement period has been included in
the cost of the Project.
Technical S tudies and Training
3.13      Technical studies and training are based on proposals by Government
to complement technical assistance being received from other sources. De-
tailed proposals would be agreed upon by Government and IDA before implemen-
tation, and would be expected to include (a) feasibility and preparation
studies for future Bank Group financing for dairying, a second phase of
village livestock development, fattening and livestock products processing;
(b) survey of the potential for additional small scale irrigation schemes in
Northeast Turkey; (c) applied research and demonstration, by the Grassland
and Animal Husbandry Institute and University of Erzurum, of improved farming
methods, particularly forage production; (d) training abroad, in countries
with similar farming problems, for LDP technicians and ABT staff; and (e)
training in improved farming techniques and record keeping for selected
project farmers.
C. Cost Estimates
3.14      The estimated cost is equivalent to US$28.3 million and is sunmmarized
as follows:



- 12 -
TL Millions         US$ Millions      Project  Foreign
Category           Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total   Cost   Exchange
Fixed Investments
Land Preparation    9.2       7.5  16.7   0.7    0.5    1.2        4       45
Fertilizer           3.2    12.8  16.0   0.2    0.9    1.1         4       80
Seed                 2.5      1.1   3.6   0.2    0.1    0.3        1        30
Weed Control         3.5      1.9   5.4   0.3    0.1    0.4        1        35
Fencing              1.9      2.9   4.8   0.1    0.2    0.3        1       60
Barns, Feed Bins   69.4       9.6  79.0   5.1    0.6    5.7    20           12
Breeding Livestock 47.7        -   47.7   3.4       -     3.4    12         _
Tractors             6.5      6.5  13.0   0.4    0.5    0.9        3        50
Other Machinery
and Equipment       15.1    15.2  30.3   1.1    1.1    2.2         8       50
Miscellaneous       14.3      7.8  22.1   1.0    0.6    1.6        6       35
Sub-Total      173.3    65.3 238.6  12.5    4.6   17.1    60           27
Incremental Working
Capital
Livestock for
Fattening          77.6       -   77.6   5.5       -     5.5    20         _
Feed                27.4      1.4  28.8   2.0    0.1    2.1        7       15
Fertilizer           0.4      1.7   2.1    -      0.1    0.1       -       80
Weed Control         1.4      0.7   2.1   0.1    0.1    0.2        1        35
Miscellaneous        1.8      1.2   3.0   0.1    0.1    0.2        1       40
Sub-Total      108.6      5.0 113.6   7.7    0.4    8.1    29           5
Consultants and
Technical Services  21.3    16.7  38.0   1.5    1.2    2.7    10             45
Technical Studies
and TrainiB&          1.4      4.2   5.6   0.1    0.3    0.4   _ 1           75                J
Total          304.6    91.2 395.8  21.8    6.5   28.3   100           23
3.15      Under the Village Sub-Project the fixed investment would equal
US$14.4 million mainly for breeding stock, barns, land preparation, fertilizer,
tractors and machinery. Incremental working capital would equal US$0.5
million for fertilizer, weed control and miscellaneous. Under the Fattening
Sub-Project fixed investments would be US$2.7 million for barns, feed bins
and miscellaneous while incremental working capital would be US$7.6 million
for livestock for fattening and fodder. Further details of Project cost are
given in Annex 4.
D. Financing
3.16      The estimated costs would be financed as follows:



- 13 -
Sub-
borrowers     ABT    Government       IDA       Total
Category             Amount () Amount (%) Amount (   Amount (%) Amount (%)
------------------- US$ Millions--------
Village Sub-Project
Private Farmers            1.2   10    3.2   27                7.7  64   12.1  43
Irrigation Groups/1              10    0.1   27                0.3  63    0.4   1
Common Meadow Groups      0.1   10    0.2   27                 0.5  63    0.8   3
Purebred Livestock
Groups /1                       10           27               0.1  63    0.1   1
Machinery Sub-borrowers  0.3   20    0.4   24                  0.8  56    1.5   5
Sub-Total             1.6   11    3.9   26                9.4  64   14.9  53
Fat tening Sub-Proj ect
Fatteners                 3.1   30    2.1   21                 5.1  49   10.3  36
Consultants and
Technical Services                                  1.5  55    1.2  45    2.7  10
Technical Studies
and Training                                        0.1  20    0.3  80    0.4   1
Total                 4.7   16    6.0   21   1.6   6   16.0  57   28.3 100
/1   Borrowers and ABT contribute less than US$0.05 million.
3.17      Farmers in the Village Sub-Project area have recently experienced
several drought years which has reduced their capacity to contribute to
investments. As a result, most private farmers and groups can contribute
only their labor (about 10% of costs). Sub-borrowers for tractors would
however contribute 20% as equity. Sub-borrowers under the Fattening Sub-
Project are somewhat better placed and an average contribution of 30% is
considered reasonable.  ABT would contribute 30% of subloans from its own
resources with the balance being received from Government from the proceeds
of the IDA credit. Terms of on lending of the IDA credit are detailed in
para 3.28. IDA would finance the equivalent of the foreign exchange component,
US$6.5 million, and US$9.5 million, or 43%, of local costs. Government would
provide salaries and general operating costs of LDP.
E. Procurement
3.18      LDP would organize the procurement of tractors by international
competitive bidding on the basis of individual orders collected by LTDP
technicians and would award contracts to the lowest evaluated bidder. The
invitation to bid would specify that suppliers would guarantee adequate
servicing facilities and spare parts supply in the Village Sub-Project area.
Procurement of tractors would be subject to not more than four contracts.
Tractors (about 200) would be procured under the Bank's guidelines for
international competitive bidding and a domestic preference of up to 15%
or the level of import duties, whichever is the lower, would be allowed to



- 14 -
local bidders.  Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations
that LDP would obtain IDA approval of bidding documents before bids are
invited and would obtain IDA approval of the lowest evaluated bid before
awarding the contracts. Vehicles for LDP and ABT would be procured under
international competitive bidding on the same basis as outlined above.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would promptly
permit the importation of tractors and vehicles required for the Project.
3.19      For other Project goods, numerous individual purchases by farmers
over an extended period would make bulking of procurement and therefore
international competitive tendering impracticable.  Procurement would thus
be through local commercial channels which include private traders, state
trading entities and cooperatives. These channels offer an adequate choice
of locally manufactured and internally supplied goods.  Fertilizer would
be purchased by farmers from the Agricultural Supply Organization (a                       0
Government owned retailer), sales cooperatives and private dealers. These
retailers obtain their supplies both from local manufacturers and through
imports. For importation of fertilizer international bidding is normally
practiced by these entities.
F. Disbursement
3.20      Disbursements from the Credit would be as follows:
(a)  70% of ABT's loans under the Village Sub-Project;
(b)  70% of ABT's loans under the Fattening Sub-Project;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditure and 80% of the local expenditures
of the consultants;
(d)  100% of c.i.f. costs or local ex-factory costs of Project
vehicles and 80% of the total costs of office equipment
required for the Project; and
(e) 80% of the total cost of technical studies and training
and travel abroad.
Disbursements against subloans would be based upon appropriate documentation
submitted by ABT and would include a statement of investment items, certifi-
cation by the ABT, and approval by the Director General of LDP or his de-
signee. Disbursement for vehicles, technical services and studies would be
made against appropriate documentation.
3.21      A forecast of disbursements on a quarterly basis is shown in
Annex 5. Full disbursement would be achieved over four years, as summarized
in the following schedule:



- 15 -
Year
Category                                   1     2     3       4     Total
---  US$ Millions --
Village Sub-Project                      1.6   3.6   3.7    0.5       9.4
Fattening Sub-Project                    1.0   2.1   2.0       -      5.1
Consultants and Technical Services       0.4   0.5   0.2    0.1       1.2
Technical Studies and Training           0.1   0.1   0.1              0.3
3.1   6.3   6.0    0.6    16.0
G. Accounts and Audit
3.22      ABT would keep separate accounts for the Village Livestock Deve-
lopment Sub-Project and for the Fattening Sub-Project and submit summaries
in a quarterly report to IDA, incorporating information supplied by LDP on
its activlties. A copy of the annual accounts, certified by auditors
acceptable to IDA, would be forwarded to IDA within five months of the end
of ABT's financial year. Both ABT and LDP accounts would be audited by the
auditors of the Ministry of Finance who would be acceptable to IDA. All
documents would be submitted in English. Assurances on these points would
be obtained during negotiations. The LDP would keep accounts of Project
expenditure on technical services and studies and a copy in English, audited
in a manner satisfactory to IDA, would be sent to IDA within five months of
the end of the Government's fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
H. Organization and Management
3.23      The organization and management for both Sub-Projects would be
similar to that for the Intensive Dairy Production Project 236-TU. Project
implementation and technical and economic aspects would be the responsibility
of LDP (para 2.22), while the Encouragement and Development Loans Division
of ABT (para 2.25) would handle the credit aspects.
3.24      LDP is headed by a General Director who is directly responsible
to the Minister of Agriculture. An Executive Committee, composed of the
directors of other directorates of the Ministry and the President of ABT,
meets quarterly to decide on policy and to resolve inter-departmental
problems.
3.25      LDP creates a new division to handle each new major activity and
appoints a manager to be in charge. A division has already been set up for
the Village Sub-Project and another will be formed for the Fattening Sub-
Project. (Details of the proposed organi2ation of LDP are shown in Annex
6, Appendix 1). Assurance were obtained from Government that the managers
of the Village Sub-Project Division and the Fattening Sub-Project Division
would be appointed as a condition of effectiveness and that they would have
a background and experience acceptable to IDA 11 (Annex 6 contains draft
_i   The present manager of the Village Sub-Project Division has suitable
background and experience.



- 16 -
Terms of Reference for managers). Since there is a shortage of persons
experienced in medium and long term livestock development lending in Turkey
and because of the need for specialists in a number of fields for this Project,
Government has agreed that three experienced full-time consultants and also,
if required short-term consultants will be employed to assist with the
training of LD)P's technicians and for assisting and advising LDP staff
(Annex 6). It will be a condition of effectiveness that the consultants,
satisfactory to IDA had been appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA.
3.26      The Village Sub-Project manager would be assisted by a Regional
Manager at Erzurum, Provincial Managers at Kars and Agri, and about 50
technicians, while the Fattening Sub-Project manager would have about 15
technicians in various country towns.  For individual borrowers and groups,
these technicians would:  assist applicants prepare development plans as the               0
basis for ABT's subloans; make recommendations on subloan size and terms;
supervise the implementation of the development plans; advise farmers and
fatteners on improved techniques and keeping of records; and advise and
assist villages in the establishment of irrigation, meadow land and purebred
bull stud groups.  They would also keep detailed production records on at
least 5% of Project sub-borrowers for the purposes of assessing Project
benefits and progress and assurances were obtained on this during negotiations.
These technicians would come mainly from the Ministry of Agriculture, but
also from other Ministries and elsewhere. The Village Sub-Project area and
some of the fattening districts are remote from the main centers of population
and lack many facilities. Assurances were obtained, during negotiations,
that Government would provide technicians with salaries and incentives that
would attract high calibre staff. Assurances were obtained from Government
that it would provide sufficient funds to LDP to fully cover LDP's require-
ments for the Project. For the current financial year Government has
allocated an adequate amount in the Annual Budget.
3.27      The Encouragement and Development Loans Division, of the Project
Loans Department of ABT, would be responsible for the credit aspects of
the Project. Close liaison should develop between the respective LDP and ABT
officers as most would have a counterpart with whom they would have frequent
dealings. A Project Coordinating Committee comprising senior staff of LDP
and ABT would be formed and would meet regularly, particularly to coordinate
the delegation of authority for subloan approvals to branch offices (para
3.29). Assurances were obtained, during negotiations, that the Project
Coordinating Committee would be formed.
I. Lending Operations
3.28      The IDA Credit of US$16 million would be made available on normal
IDA terms to Government, which would on-lend the Turkish Lira equivalent
of US$14.5 million to ABT at an annual interest rate of 5% for 14 years,
including a five-year grace period. Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. ABT would on-lend to sub-borrowers at 9% interest rate,
the same as that charged under the Intensive Dairy Production Project
(236-TU) and in line with other aggricultural lending. From its spread of



- 17 -
4%, ABT would place 1% in a Special Operational Fund in ART to be Madno
available to the General Directorate of LDP for assistance in paying its
operating expenses. To provide funds for the period before interest is
received, Government agreed to make an advance to the Special Operationai
Fund from the proceeds of interest due to Government from the Intensive
Dairy Production Project subloans. All withdrawals from the Special
Operational Fund would need to be authorized by the General Director of LDP.
Assurances on the above terms and conditions were obtained during negotiations.
Annex 7 shows the ABT and Project Cash Flows and these indicate a satisfactory
position for ABT and Government.
3.29      Project loan applications would be first made to the ABT local
branch. If the applicant had no adverse credit rating the LDP technician would
prepare a farm development plan in conjunction with the applicant. Concurrently
ABT would check more fully on the applicants credit worthiness and if this
proved satisfactory ABT would base its sub-loan approval of the farm develop-
nent plan prepared by the LDP technician solely on the creditworthiness of
the applicant. ABT would accept other satisfactory security where a registered
mortgage over a suitable applicant's land was not available. Initially final
approval of sub-loans by both ABT and LDP would be at their Ankara offices.
Subsequently such authority would be delegated to provincial and country
levels as staff gained more experience, with Ankara staff making spot checks.
Assurances on these lending procedures were obtained during negotiations.
3.30       Development subloans to farmers for private farm development under
the Village Sub-Project would be for an average of 12 years including four
years of grace. Because of farmers' limited cash resources, it would be
necessary to provide all cash requirements for the development program
(excluding the farmers' own labor - estimated at about 10% of the cost) as
well as additional working capital to cover increased operating costs over
the disbursement period. Subloans to groups under the Village Sub-Project
would be normally for 10 years including three years of grace; ABT would
provide all cash requirements. Subloans for tractors and associated mach'inery
would be for seven years, including one year of grace, and usually for 80%
of the cost of the machinery.
3.31      Under the Fattening Sub-Project, subloans would be made to fatteners
for about 70% of (a) the cost of fixed investments, and (b) the amount of his
inventory of animals and fodder on hand at most times (estimated to be half
a years purchases) required to utilize the fixed investments made under the
subloan. Sub-borrowers would supply the remaining 30%, mainly in cash,
and also find other operating funds (e.g. veterinary, labor). Sub-loans
would be for terms of seven to nine years including usually one year of grace,
terms to be based on the LDP technician's recommendations. As part of the
subloan agreement, fatteners would maintain a credit account in their ABT
branch hank and would pay the proceeds of livestock sales into this pending
withdrawals for further purchases of livestock and fodder and other require-
ments.  Shou1ld livestock and fodder on hand fall below normal, sub-borrowers
would maintain sufficient funds in the account to meet this deficit. During
negotiations assurances were obtained with respect to the foregoing lendirng
terms and conditions (paras 3.30 and 3.31).



- 18 -
IV. MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Markets
4.01      The Project is expected at full development to increase annual meat
production by 6,300 m ton, equivalent to a little more than 1% of current
total annual production. Most of the additional meat would be of high quality
and, therefore, sold mainly in the Istanbul and Ankara markets, which have
about 40% of the urban population and most of the tourist trade, and have a
high demand for meat at present prices. Population growth in these markets
is around 5% to 6% per annum, representing an annual rate of increase in
meat requirements of about 3,000 m ton. No difficulty is therefore seen in
disposing of the additional meat at present prices.
4.02      Although some of the additional 29,000 m ton of milk generated by
the Village Sub-Project would be processed on-farm and sold to local bazaars,
most would be sold to village cheesemakers, local milk vendors or the milk
plant at Kars. This milk plant, which commenced operations in 1969,
processed less than 3,000 m ton of milk in the first nine months of 1970,
well below the 15,000 m ton full single-shift capacity. With improvements
to collection services and a more aggressive purchasing policy, the factory
should be able to secure 30% to 40% of the additional milk resulting from
the Sub-Project. The market for the Kars milk plant's main products --
milk powder, butter and cheese -- appears good as all current production is
being easily disposed of in the local market. When its production has
increased sufficiently, the plant has access to attractive markets in the
major urban areas of Western Turkey (including Ankara and Istanbul) and the
Army, which is opening a large purchasing depot at Kars. Additional cheese
produced locally would be sold to merchants from widely distributed urban
areas from the Black Sea area or Istanbul. Additional production of milk
products arising from the Sub-Project at full development would equal less
than 1% of Turkey's present production.  As the present demand is strong
and is expected to increase at 4% to 5% per annum, there should be no diffi-                6
culty in marketing the increased production.
B. Prices
4.03      In June 1971, prices for feedlot fattened cattle ranged from
US$0.50 to US$0.60 per kg liveweight. Taking into account marketing costs
and seasonal price variations, this would provide an average feedlot price
of about US$0.53 per kg liveweight. During June 1971, average wholesale
carcass price was US$1.20 per kg for beef and US$1.35 per kg for mutton
In Ankara and Istanbul markets (margin of approximately 15% exists between
beef and mtutton prices for similar quality meat).
4.04      Milk prices paid by local cheesemakers vary according to the
proxImity of the village to larger towns, the Kars milk plant collection
facilities and the cheesemaker's premises. Cheesemakers generally buy
their milk from April to September, the period of surplus. Winter-produced
milk is consumed mainly on the farm. Prices current during June 1971 were:



- 19 -
T:yp  of Milk           Avern   Provincial Prlce
Erzutrtum    Kn Aarr
---US$ per 10 kg 
Cow                       0.78      0.71    0.71
Sheep                     0.89      0.82    0.82
4.05      Prices received in local markets for farm dairy products, mainly
butter, nonfat cheese and white cheese, give an equivalent milk price to
producers similar to that received from the local cheesemaker. These
prices compare with a Kars milk plant summer price (to the end of September)
for 1971 of US$0.82 per 10 kg at the village for milk with 4% butter fat
content.
C. Producer Benefits
4.06      Benefits to producers participating in the Project would be
considerable and the two complementary inputs supplied by the Project,
namely credit and improved technology, would be essential to achieve
these results. A summary of producer benefits derived from representative
prodtuction models is given in the following table:
Pure-
bred
Common   Irri-      Bull
Investment   Private Meadow/,1 gation    Stud    Machinery    Cattle    Sheep
Model        Farms n         -            Groupt  Sub-borrowers Fatteners Fatteners
Tnesmnt ---------------- US$ Equivaleuts --------------------------
Investment-U$Euvlns
Cost        2,430   9,370    3,570       2,400      6,430     6,430        6,430
Net Income/2
At Full     1,150   2,230    1,090         680      1,550     1,450        1,740
Develop-
ment /3
Incremental
Net Income    670   2,230    1,090         680      1,550     1,450        1,740
Rate of
Return on
Incremental
Investment /4  19.0    31.0       34.0      36.0       22.5      25.0         29.0
Debt Service
(Interest and
Principal)    400   1,410        580       390      1,150      1,000       1,000
Incremental
Income after
debt service  270      820      510        290        400       450          740
/1   Figures are for all members of a group and not for individuals.
/2   Sales minus operating expenses.  For private farms consumption of about
US$300 included.
/3   Full development varies from the second to the seventh year.
/    Rates of Return calculations are shown in Annex 8, Table 1.



- 20 -
The financial rates of return should be sufficiently high to make the
proposed investments attractive. The individual enterprises with the
highest returns are also those with the greatest risk from changlng
conditions. In calculating these returns current prices for both inputs and
outputs were assumed to continue at their present levels. The time required
to reach full development ranges from two years for fattening to, seven
years for the individual village farmers.
D. Revenue Generation
4.07      Most sub-borrowers would be just above subsistence levels before
borrowing and after development would still have incomes below the average for
Turkish farmers.  Average family size is large in Turkey and the average
sub-borrower would support a family of seven to eight. At full development,
net cash income of individual sub-borrowers under the Village Sub-Project
would be about US$850 before debt service and about US$450 after debt service.
Under Turkish tax laws farmers are not liable to income tax unless their sales
exceed US$2,150 and the typical Village Sub-Project participants would not
qualify. Sub-borrowers in groups would in most cases receive low incomes.
Machinery sub-borrowers would have a net income after depreciation of only
about US$600 to US$700 per tractor and would also pay little if any income
taxes. Additional income from the Sub-Project would be spent on further
development and such basic items as housing, education and village amenities.
4.08      Sub-borrowers under the Fattening Sub-Project with one fattening
unit would receive an average net income before debt service of US$1,450 to
US$1,740 or about US$200 per person, per family, but after debt gervice would
receive only about US$500 to US$700 or below US$100 per person. These sub-
borrowers do not obtain any subsistence from their properties and would still
have very modest incomes. After making deductions for dependents and other
permissible items, income tax would be negligible on the unit proposed.  Some
fatteners owning other operations would, of course, pay tax on the incremental
income, but the overall amount would be small.
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      At full development after seven years, the Project would provide
annual incremental production valued at US$11 million, of which 40% would
be from the Village Sub-Project and 60% from the Fattening Sub-Project.
The total incremental annual production and revenue by major items for the
Project is shown below:



- 21 -
Item                      Unit       Quantity       UJS$ Million
Village Sub-Project
Milk Production               m ton        29,000             2.5
Beef Production               m ton         1,800             1.4
Mutton Production             m ton           300             0.3
Sub-Total                                                4.2
Net Increase in Revenue to Sub-borrowers                 3.0
Fattening Sub-Project
Carcass Meat Production       m ton         4,200             6.7
Net Increase in Revenue to Sub-borrowers                 2.1
5.02      Additional annual meat production would approximate 6,300 m ton
while incremental milk production by Project farmers would be 29,000 m ton.
The Project would, therefore, make a valuable, if limited, impact on the
supply of meat and milk. About 5,000 improved heifers would be available
for sale annually from Project farms and would make a valuable contribution
to improvement of cattle on other properties.
5.03      The Project would create about 1,500 new jobs providing work for
people who were previously unemployed or underemployed. Some 7,000 individual
sub-borrowers would benefit directly - many of these sub-borrowers and their
families are presently underemployed and the Project would result in fuller
employment for them. About 5,000 members of groups borrowing under the
Project would also benefit. The Village Sub-Project would act as a first-
phase approach to village development, both for small farm and common land
improvement; the experience gained under it should be helpful in overcoming
obstacles to implementation of future phases and in setting a pattern which
might provide the key to agricultural development in Turkey under the village
small farm and common land system that prevails. The added production would
also contribute to further utilization of processing facilities in the
Northeast. The Fattening Sub-Project would provide a more technical approach
to fattening, and should geatly assist in improving the base upon which the
fattening industry is being developed.
5.04      The economic rate of return is estimated at approximately 20%
after adjtusting taxes, duties and other transfers and including the cost of
technical services (Annex 8 Table 2).  Should actual incremental production
be valued at 10% less and concurrently should livestock for fattening and
fodder prices drop by 10% from current levels, the economic rate of return
would fall to about 18%, Should investment costs increase by 10% above those
projected the economic rate of return would also be reduced to about 18%.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances, amongst others, were obtained from
Government that:



- 22 -
(a) LDP would keep records adequate to measure increased production
resulting from the Project (para 3.26);
(b) Government would provide adequate salaries andl incentives to
attract high calibre technicians to LDP (para 3.26);
(c) A Project Coordinating Committee comprising senior staff of LDP
and ABT would be established, particularly to coordinate
delegation of authority to branch levels (para 3.27);
(d) Government would on-lend to ABT, IDA funds required for project
lending, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 3.28);
(e) LDP would assist each sub-borrower in the preparation of farm
development plans and supervise the implementation of plans
(para 3.29); and
(f)  LDP would take steps to decentralize authority to field                           0
officers as appropriate (para 3.29).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ABT that:
(a)  From the interest received on funds derived from IDA, it would
set aside 1% in a Special Operational Fund, to assist with
LDP's operating expenses. Withdrawals from this Fund would
only be made on the authorization of the General Director
of LDP (para 3.28);
(b) Approval or rejection of a livestock development plan,
prepared by LDP would be based solely on the credit worthiness
of the applicant (para 3.29);
(c)  It would initially approve subloans in Ankara, but subse-
quently delegate authority to branch officers as appropriate,
(para 3.29); and
(d) It would make subloans to Project sub-borrowers on terms and
and conditions in accordance with the terms and conditions
specified (paras 3.30 and 3.31).
6.03      In addition to the customary conditions, the following have been
agreed upon as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit:
(a) That managers with a background and qualifications acceptable
to IDA had been appointed to LDP's Village Sub-Project Division
and the Fattening Sub-Project Division (para 3.25); and
(b) That the consultants, satisfactory to IDA, and under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, had been appointed by
LDP (p.ira 3.25).
1.04     'rlThe proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
('rjdjt of US$16 million.
M.tircli 14, 1)72



ANNEX I
Page 1
SECONT) LIVESTOrK DEVF.1.OPMFNT PROJECT
The Livestock Subsector
Livestock Production
1.        TAvestock production in 1969 was estimated at TL 16.9 billion
or ahout 1(0' of the total value of agricultural production; estimated value
of nroductlon in 1070 was similar. During the period 1947 to 1969 the
area of land used for Rrazing declined bv 267, mainly as a result of emphasis
nn cereal nroduction. 1!owever, livestock numbers over this period increased
substantially: sheep from 29 to 37 million (407); cattle from 10 to 1L
million (4nn: and goats from 17 to 21 million (24%).  Cows milked are
estimated to have increased from 2.5 to 4.5 million (R0%) and ewes milked
from 11 to 17 million (30n). Most of this increase occurred prior to the
earlv lnfn'sT when adverse seasonal conditions caused a reduction in all
classeq of livestock excent draft animals. Over the period 1961 to 1969,
livestock production had an average growth rate of less than 1% per annum.
I,        The Northeastern Piphlands Region has the highest concentration
of cattle, the three provinces of Erzurum, Kars and Agri alone accounting
for 1I' of all cattle and 159  of the national breeding herd.  The South-
eastern Piphlands and Southern Anatolian ReRions are the principal sheep
nroducing areas, although the three Northeastern Provinces account for
11' of the national total.
1.        Total Tivestock offtake for 196Q is estimated at 22 million
head, incluudifnR !. million cattle and 14 million sheep. The dressed
TPiPht enuivalent of this offtake, assuming average carcass weights of
A6 kp for cattle and 15 kg for sheen, is estimated at 5n0,n0n m ton, of
w7hich 3A' is attrihuted to cattle, 41% to sheeD, 197 goat, and 4% to
buffalo. T.Tith domestic consumption at 14.5 kg per capita, total consump-
tion ts apnroximatelY 47n,00n m ton, leaving a surplus of about 30,0on m
ton, ofhich is exnorted.
Milk nroduction, which has increased at less than 2% annually
over the 1961 to 1q6O reriod, reached a total of 3.6 million tons in 1970,
reprrsentinp Aon kg per milking cow. This is all consumed locally and
gives an average per capita consumption of about 103 kg per capita,
or similar to that of Italy.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        Indigenous cattle breeds 1/ are small in size (average carcass
weight 90 kg) and, except for the Southern Red, mediocre in milk production
(600 to 700 kg annually). Average calving percentage is about 65% and
annual offtake about 15%. These cattle are adapted to local conditions,
surviving for most of the year on near maintenance levels of low quality
roughage, despite the effects of adverse climate and heavy parasite in-
festation. They are relatively efficient in their level of feed conversion.
European breeds, mainly Brown Swiss and Holstein have been introduced,
particularly on State-owned farms, and the influence of the former has
spread in a limited way to many areas including the Northeastern Highlands.
6.        Local breeds of sheep 2/ under prevailing conditions are not very
prolific (lambing rate of about 85%) or productive (about 33 kg of milk 3/
per ewe per year and 1 to 1.5 kg of wool per animal per year).  Although
mature body weights range from 25 to 50 kg, the average dressed weight of
sheep slaughtered in 1969 was only 15 kg reflecting both the high propor-
tion of slaughter stock in poor condition and the percentage of milk
lambs in the kill, and indicating a great potential for increased produc-
tion. Annual offtake is about 36%.
Livestock Management
7.        Turkish livestock farmers reside in villages and farm the sur-
rounding countryside. Animals are grazed on communal pastures, crop after-
maths and fallow land during the day, usually in village herds and flocks
attended by hired herdsmen and shepherds, and returned to the village at
night for milking and shelter. The animals are housed during the cold
winter months (up to five or six months in the Northeastern Highlands) and
fed a maintenance ration of cereal straw, native hay and, occasionally,
industrial crop by-products and grains. A few villages grow forage crops.
Those in the Northeastern Highlands make native hay from low-lying
communal meadows and from privately owned low-lying lands. Even in North-
eastern Turkey, where livestock provide the main source of farm income,
they are on a good plane of nutrition for only three to five months of the
year. In general, pastures are over-stocked and over-grazed and, for more
than six months of the year, animals are often on a low level of feeding,
progressively losing condition and becoming more vulnerable to the endemic
diseases and other stresses. Calving and lambing are concentrated in late
winter and early spring to maximize milk production from lush spring and
early sumner pasture. However, progeny are fed on minimal amounts of milk
and weaned at an early age to increase revenue from the sale of milk and
cheese. Many of these management problems are related to the low level of
income of most farmers and the need to maximize this in the short term.
1/   The main breed in the Northeastern Highlands is the Eastern Red.
2/   The main breed in the Northeastern Highlands is the Red Karaman.
3/   Net for human consumption.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
However, the Turkish farmer keeps a very close watch on his livestock and
has a general understanding of their requirements. Given financial and
technical assistance, it is considered he would readily improve his
standards of management.
Livestock Health
8.        The main problem of health among all classes of livestock of all
ages is undernutrition. Internal parasites, next to undernutrition, con-
tinue to be greatest cause of ill thrift and slow growth rates in cattle
and sheep. Infectious diseases also cause some concern although control
measures are known. Except for European Turkey (Thrace), foot-and-mouth
disease is endemic and the subject of an active vaccination campaign by
the Veterinary Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture. Rinderpest
has recently been introduced from neighboring countries, causing the first
outbreak in 25 years. Although initial control measures were introduced
in four of the neighboring eastern provinces, this disease has now been
identified in 44 provinces where vaccination, identification and stricter
control must be implemented for satisfactory results. Routine control is
practised nationally for anthrax. Other important diseases are tuberculosis,
brucellosis, blackleg and enterotoxemia in sheep, probably predisposed by
parasites with hydatids and sheep measles, the cause of considerable offal
rejections. The Veterinary Directorate carries out free vaccination for
many of these diseases, but coverage is inadequate, often through a shortage
of operating funds. There are, however, enough veterinary staff available
to cope with the requirement under this project. Turkey now produces most
of its requirement of animal vaccines.
Livestock Marketing
9.        The pattern of live animal marketing reflects the small size of
individual enterprises, and the relatively even distribution of slaughter
animals throughout the country. There are concentration of breeding
animals, such as sheep in the Southeastern Highlands where an ancient
trade in live sheep still flourishes with neighboring countries. Sheep
from that region are also fattened as far west as Adana, Konya and Izmir
for slaughter and consumption in major urban areas or for export live or
as carcass meat to Middle Eastern Countries. An important concentration
of livestock, particularly breeding cattle, occurring in the Northeastern
Highlands, provides surplus livestock to fatteners and abattoirs in Central
Anatolia (Ankara) and Istanbul. The 10 eastern provinces are the main
surplus livestock producing areas, while 26 provinces in the west, extending
along the coast from Coruli in the north to Hatay in the south, constitute
an almost unbroken area of deficit meat production; Istanbul, Izmir and
Adana, the major cities in this area, together with Ankara, constitute
the main urban markets, and are located from 1,000 to 2,000 km from the
eastern areas of surplus supply of livestock and livestock products.
10.       Except for the cities, which now have abattoirs marketing of
livestock and livestock products is still by the long established tradi-
tional pattern. In the Northeastern Highlands, live animals are marketed
on the farm or in town and country saleyards, primarily to agents and



ANNEX 1
Page 4
middlemen who, in turn, transship westwards to the main fattening and con-
suming areas on the Anatolian Plateau, the Southern and Western Coastal
Plains and Istanbul. Livestock may change hands several times before they
are finally sold to fatteners or abattoirs, a procedure that reduces the
price to the producer. The extent of this reduction is obscured, however,
by the habit of selling on a per animal basis. A high proportion of the
stock comes forward in late autumn and early winter wthen farmers thin out
their herds and flocks to reduce the problems of winter feeding and housing.
Prices, therefore, depend on the time of year and on the offerings. To
improve marketing, Government hias recently constructed new livestock
markets and slaughterhouses in a number of centers.
Livestock Fattening
11.       Livestock in Turkey are often sold by their original owners in                       0
an unfinished condition. These animals have an adequate frame and can,
if fed a satisfactory diet, gain weight fairly rapidly until they are in
good condition (usually 90 to 100 days). Thereafter the rate of gain
declines. At current buying and selling prices, livestock fattening is
quite profitable for the 90- to 100-day period, but thereafter is un-
profitable.
12.       Fattening of cattle has partly developed around the sugar fac-
tories where there is a surplus of relatively cheap wet beet pulp. This
has been an important ingredient in fattening rations and even where the
beet pulp is now dried and more costly, the fattening industry remains.
The Central East (Amasya, Sivas and Tokat) and Central South (Konya and
Kayseri) account for about 60% of total fattening. These areas are well
situated for access to the main markets. Sheep fattening is mainly con-
centrated in Central South (Konya and Kayseri) and Mediterranean (Adana)
region because of priority to the surplus sheep producing areas and to
domestic and export markets.
13.       The main intake periods are September/October and December/                          0
January. This permits advantage to be taken of seasonal lows in feeder
prices during late summer and autumn and corresponds with the beet harvest.
14.       Although the rise in fat livestock prices in recent years has
stimulated fattening, the industry has been faced with serious constraints
due to inadequate finance for livestock and feed purchase. In 1964, the
Government instituted a program whereby technical assistance was provided
through the Ministry of Agriculture and credit through Supervised Credit
program of ABT. TRSAID funds provided part of the credit and Government
funds the balance. This program has been fairly static over the past
four years at about TL 50 million providing funds for about 75,000 cattle
and over 100,000 sheep.  See Table 1 for details.
15.       In 1969, the Government cormencedi a further program. through the
Turkish Sugar Corporation (TSC) for fattening cattle partly on the wet
beet pulp from. sugar factories. This program expanded rapidly to reach
120,000 cattle for 1970/71.  However, a ree,uirement of the program was
that participants would sell their finished cattle through the Go3vernment



ANEX 1
Page 5
teat and Fish Organization (P1B).  With prices rising fairlY rapidlv in 1(.')
wRB did not Increase their prices and bv the end of 1Q70, these were not
adequate to allow a reasonable profit to participants. The scheme for the
autumn and winter of 1071/72 appears to be in jeopardy as EKB has not
resolved its pricinR difficulties.
T.ivestock Slaughtering
lo;.      Slaughtering of livestock is mainlY done in 6n0 existing facilities,
ranging from fairly primitive facilities in small villages to eight 1/ new,
relativelv modern works operated by the EFK. The municipalities have a
mononolv on fee slaughtering, but their abattoirs generally lack refrigera-
tion. Rxcent at Ankara, the EKB plants do not undertake custom slaughtering
and, becatise of this and price constraints resulting from sale of oroducts
to rovernment agencies at below market values, they operate on-average,
at less than in7 capacity. Average annual production of red meat is
estimated at 500,0nn  m ton, including that consumed in villages and in-
eluAding an estimated about 20,000 m ton exported.
Pemand and Price Prosnects of Livestock Products
17.       Prices of livestock and meat are generally free from Government
regulation or nressure. One of the functions of the Meat Organization
(E'RR) is to damnen seasonal meat price fluctuations through its buying and
sel.lin  onerations, a dutv it cannot effectively perform while handling
consiVerabhlv less than InO of the trade in meat and selling practically
its total nroduction to novernment institutions.
lo.       Vholesale nrices for livestock products have increased rapidly
since 100h and live animal prices have anproximately doubled; this has been
annreciablv treater than the general wholesale price index.  Retail prices
for mutton and beef have not risen quite so steeply.  This situation stems
from an increasing pressure on the slowly increasing suDnlies as a result
of fast growinp demand from the rapidly increasing population increase and
an increasing level of dinnosable income. The average annual rate of
nonul.ation growth is 2.5P, but it is considerably more for urban areas where
demand is greatest, e.R. for Ankara it is estimated at 6.M%. The income
elasticity of demand for red meats is estimated at 1.0, but consumption
has been retarted bv rigidities on the supply side. By 1975, the effective
increase ner capita in beef consumption in major cities is expected to be
about  no0 grams ner annum.  Thuis, by 1975 the annual requirement of the
local market will . have increased by about 3n0,nn m ton of meat, which is
greater than the Present rate of increase in supply.
rxnort of Meat
In.       "eat, mainlv mutton in the form of live animals, is exported
narticularlv to the Middle Fast.  The extent of this may be gauged from
the fn7lowinPe table of offlciat exnorts of meat and livestock, 1969:
1/   rurrent buildfng nrogram will increase this number to 17.



ANNEX I
Page 6
Cattle and Buffaloes                  Sheep and_ Goats
Live              Total Meat        Live              Total Meat
Animals     Meat   Equivalent       Animals     Meat   Equivalent
(Thousand)  (m ton)  (Thousand)   (Thousand)  (m ton)  (Thousand)
COUNTRY     (head)                 (m ton)       (head)                (m ton)
Iran           -          -           -          49.8       2,936        4.5
Lebanon      24.0         -          2.7          70.4        -          2.4
Jordan          -         -           _            3.3        _          0.1
Libya          -         95           -            1.5         98        0.1
Syria         2.3         -          0.3         68.2         -          2.3
Kuwait          -         -           -             -         430        0.4
Unspecified
(mainly
goats)       -          -           -          44.0         962        2.4
TOTAL        26.3        95          3.0        235.2       4,426       13.2
Other exports are through provisioning of ships and unofficial exports to
the above countries.
20.       Meat, particularly beef, is one of the few commodities for which
world demand is increasing faster than supply. However, Turkey ex-factory
prices for carcass meat are higher than those in European markets, with
FOB prices of US$1,000 for Turkish fresh beef compared with a CIF price
of US$850 to US$900 in Europe for Argentine meat.  Turkey could possibly
compete by exporting chilled meat which may command a higher price.  A
major problem in shipping to Europe would be prohibitions on the import of
Turkish fresh meat because of foot-and-mouth disease. Rinderpest also
presents a problem.  In view of this, Government is exploring the possibility
of exporting specially prepared sterile canned meats to the Federal Republic
of Germany to tap the market provided by 300,000 Turkish workers in that
country, and a trial shipment through the German IMEX has been sent.
21.       Most countries in the Middle East suffer a severe meat deficit,
primarily of sheep and goat meat, and FOB prices for Turkish exports are
high, being over US$1,000 per metric ton. 1/ At present, marketing costs
to these countries are high as most shipments are small, and consignment is
1/   The dollar prices for live animals are feeder cattle US$500 per m ton
and yearling rams US$600 per m ton.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
by road, or air in the case of Libya. Expansion of these exports is pos-
sible, but the greatest determinant is the degree to which it is feasible
for the Government to increase exports in view of the local demand.
itlk Marketing
22.       Average annual rural consumption of milk is estimated at 130 kg
per capita, compared with a national average of 103 kg; thus, about 60%
of total annual milk production of 3.6 million m ton is consumed on-farm
either in liquid form or as cheese or yogurt, the remainder being processed
on-farm, 1/ sold to milk processors, including neighborhood village cheese-
makers and larger State and privately owned milk and cheese plants, and to
peddlers who supply the only door-to-door milk service in Turkey. Farm-
produced dairy products are usually sold locally or, where convenient, in
the bazaars of the larger towns, while cheesemakers may sell locally or
to agents who periodically visit the area. The Economic Planning Group of
the Ministry of Agriculture estimates that of total milk production,
about 45% is used for cheese making, 30% for yogurt, 20% for the milk trade
and the remainder for full fat milk powder; about 40% of milk is skimmed
for butter making.
23.       Although the bulk of dairy products entering the commercial trade
are manufactured in small privately owned plants, there is a limited number
of larger plants, privately or Government-owned, particularly in the major
urban areas. Government is actively fostering the development of modern
milk and cheese plants. The National Milk Industry Organization, a State
Economic Enterprise, operates five modern milk plants 2/ that have a daily
intake capacity of 300 m ton, but they are operating well below capacity.
The Ataturk State Farm also operates a large plant at Ankara.  Important
also is the direct and indirect financial assistance provided under the
Encouragement and Development legislation, and the encouragement given to
the establishment of cooperatively operated milk processing plants;
additional intake capacity afforded by these means could be of the order of
500 m ton per day.
24.       Internal marketing of dairy products is improving, at least in
the main urban areas, with more attention being given to presentation and
packing, more refrigerator space, and generally better retail facilities.
Recently, Tarim Satis Kooperatifleri Birlikleri Merkez Birligi (TARKO), a
union of 24 federations of agricultural marketing cooperatives with 250,000
members, representing both production and processing interests, was formed
to undertake the wholesale and retail marketing of members' produce along
modern lines; the efficiency of this organization has yet to be proven.
1/   While farmers generally produce white cheese village cheesemakers
produce mainly Kasau and some Gruyere-type cheese.
2/   At Adana, Izmir, Istanbul, Ankara and Kars; for further details refer
appraisal report PA-36 "Turkey - Intensive Dairy Production Project".



ANNEX 1
Page 8
25.       Dairy products do not generally enter into Turkishi foreign trade
due to the strength of internal demand but, traditionally, there has been
a small export of cheese to the Middle East.  It is unlikely, however, that
advantage can be taken of this potential market in the foreseeable future
because of the continuing pressure of internal demand.
Milk Marketing in the Northeastern Highlands
26.       Total milk production in the Northeastern Highlands from the
800,000 cows plus sheep milk is estimated at about 400,000 m ton annually.
A high percentage is consuned on the farm; equivalent to about 3 kg of
fresh milk per family per day. With 200,000 farm families and an average
size of eight, the saleable surplus milk production is only about 180,000 m
ton annually.
27.       Milk produced in excess of farm family requirements is:
(a) processed on-farm into white cheeses (beyaz, peynir,
cecil, lor) and butter which is sold to traders;
(b)  sold to village cheesemakers either as fluid milk
or white cheese for further processing into Kasar
cheese (a hard white cheese, 10 kg of milk yielding
approximately 1 kg of cheese) and some Gruyere-type
cheese;
(c)  sold directly to the consumer, including the important
military market, as yogurt, ayran or raw milk, particu-
larly by farmers from villages located near the bigger
towns (Erzurum, Kars and Agri); and
(d) sold directly to the recently established Kars milk
plant.
28.       Cheesemakers often collect from producers in several villages,
and operate for 60 to 120 days during the peak spring and summer produc-
tions period, particularly May and June. They usually purchase milk on a
contract basis six to eight months in advance. The advance payment, cur-
rently TL 150 to 250 per cow (about 50% of the value olf the anticipated
milk production), provides the farm family living expenses during part of
the winter and guarantees milk supplies to the cheesemaker at least up to
the value of the advance. Thus, the cheesemaker provides short-term finance
to the farmer. In turn, the farmer is not free to sell his milk during
peak production periods until he has repaid the cheesemaker. At that
point he has the option to sell milk elsewhere or process it into cheeses
and butter.
29.       Whereas white cheese in the Northeastern Highlands is marketed
mainly in small tow-ns and consumed locally, most Kasar and virtually all
Gruyere cheese is sold to wholesalers from the main consumption centers
in the West (Istanbul, Ankara, Iziir and Bursa).



ANNEX 1
Page 9
tn.       These traditional marketing channels operate reasonably well as
indicated bv the gross margins at the processing, wholesale and retail
levels, as an example, prices for Kasar cheese at different levels, are
set out below:
% of Retail
Item                                TL/Kg                Price
Milk Price to Producer                        1.0---
Value of Milk in One kg Cheese               10.0                  50
Selling Price of Cheese (Kars)               13.0                  65
Cheesemaker's Cross Margin                    3.00                 15
Wholesale Price of Cheese (Ankara)           16.n0                 80
Wholenaler's Cross Margin                     3.00                 15
Retail Price of Cheese (Ankara)              20.00                100
Retailer's Cross margin                       4.00                 20
/I  This price is generally vaid four to eight months in advance.
31.       Prices obtained bv farmers for milk products produced on their
farms are generallv in line with prices paid by the small cheesemakers,
on a fresh milk equivalent basis, as can be seen below:
Product                   TL/Ka         Approx. Yield         TL/Kg Milk
Butter                    18.n               25:1                0.72
Nonfat rheese
Lor                      1.40               4'1                0.35
Cecil                    3.50              10:1                0.35
Full-Fat Cheese
'White Cheese            6.5n               6:1                1.08
/1   4owever, prices paid for ewe's milk of considerably higher
butterfat and solids nonfat content are only 0.10 to 0.20 TL
ner kg higher than for cow's milk.
The wars milk Plant
12.       Tn htprsuance of its poliev to establish modern milk processing
facilities, the National Milk Organization built a plant at Kars, that



ANNEX 1
7_  __
Page 10
has a single shift capacity of 40 m ton of milk. 'mne plant, which cost
TL 27 million, is equipped to produce a wicle range of products, namely
milk powder (5 m ton of liquid milk per hour), butter (1 m ton of liquid
mIlk per hour), and Kasar cheese ('3 m ton of liquid milk per day).  Lesser
products are white cheeses, lor, gruyere, yogurt, pasteurIzed mi.Lk and
Casein.
33.       The plant startede operations i.n February, 1969.  Receipt of milk
connenced slowly with a total intake of only 473 mn ton during that year.
However, in 19709 intake increased to about 2,900 m ton which was still
far short of the one-shift capacity of abotut 40 m ton. Even duri.ng the
peak month o'f May, intake was only 50% of the one-shift capacity.
34.       Prices paid to producers wqere TL 1 ..15 per kg at thie village and
TL 1.20 per kg at the factory in the summer of 1970 (May 26 to September 30).
The price before and after these dates is TL 1.40 per kg for milk of 4.0%
butterfat content.
35.       Although the number of farmers supplying milk is difficult to
assess, because two cooperatives operate local collection services, ap-
proximately 80% of total milk comes from the Gole area.  Limited collection
services are provided to Cole and other areas. The plant operates two
conventional trucks for collection and a thermos truck for delivery of
products. Apart from the nonfat milk powder sold in the Ankara area, the
plant mnarkets all products in the region through its own retail shop in
Kars or to the miilitary, an outlet which should expand with the opening of
a supply store in Kars.
36.      'Wlile actual operating data are niot available for the Kars plant,
it is obvious that It is operating ,t a loss, which is not surprising
given under utlijzation and higbh overhead.  At full capacity uti.lization,
the net income would reDresent a 10.6% static rate of return on the invest-
;nient cost of about TL 27 /mi- t l  n.                                                         g
37.       P:'ans for t:he --lp-oveient of p art: operations include the construc-
tion of 20 m ton colleo-43n an, ecilng centers for Gole and Ardahan and
seven 5 m ton r llk  ac *enters eos-iThere.
38.      'The markft ot-iook for thle plantCs main products - wlho'Le and skim
milk powder, butt-.-r Kasar claeese   is proomsing and the possibilities are
almost untapped sine, wJ   -he exception of skim millk powder, products are
sold only on regiolal 71'1 kets   Sxubstantiajl expansion seems to be possible
in two direct-ons. nac'l.,  to1 ards the popula-iti3on centers in Western Turkey
and to the bi  institui-'r:i-  uiarket of the ar;y.
39.      'The Secc-.1  Pfi&o +  Deve'pm l r ir'-e ct, 'in raising levels of
saLeable mil-k Aorduc-1 oio i-n  I nr-v`,.i Jg,  Sc- s     --en-n-i  nance to farmers,
should help the p,Iant aop-eci- bly "'nL exceediwn  the ca.culated 7,500 m ton
per year economic in:tak-e Ievet.
November 15, S 97'



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing of Livestock Fattening Operations
F'
1967/68 Season                       1968/69 Season                       1969/70 Season                       1970/71 Season -
SOURCE OF FINANCE                                         Number of Animals                    Number of Animals                    Number of Animals                    Number of Animals
A(Head I000)           Amount           (Head '000)         Amount           (Head  000)         Amount           (Head '000)          Amount
Cattle      Sheep    TL Million     Cattle       Sheep    TL Million      Cattle      Sheep    TL Million      Cattle      Sheep    TL Million
1. Fatnn   ceme
(a) Ministry of Agriculture Fattening
Schemes   2/                                      90.0       130.0       41.2          89.9       147.8       54.0          83.1       144.3        54.5         74.4         75.3       44.6
(b) Encouragement and Development
Funds Schemes   3/                                                   -           -            -           -                  3/          3/          7.6
(c) Sugar Ccrporation Fattening Scheme                  -           -          -             -           -           _           36.8         -          23.8        118.8          -         83.8
Total Fattening Scheme                                 90.0       130.0       41.2          89.9       147.8        54.0        119.9       144.3        65.9        193.2         75.3      128.4
2. Private Contribution
(a) Feeders Contribution and/or                                                                                         3/                                    5/
Credit Schemes                                     -           -          -             -           -         23.3 -         -            -         30.4 -         -           -         24.0
(b) Privately Financed                                180.0       370.0        NA          191.2       399.2      240.7 4/      179.2       432.5       269.4 5/     140.0        400.0      240.0
Total Private Contribution                            180.0       370.0         NA         191.2       399.2       264.0        179.2        432.5      299.8         1140.0      400.0      264.0
3. Total All Fattening  7/                                270.0       500.0         NA         281.1       547.0       318.0        299.1        576.8      384.7         333.2       475.3       392.4
1/ Preliminary estimates.
2/ Composite mainly of USAID, ART funds (Law 301) and limited credit from ABT normal lending channels.
3/ Dispersed through ANT only in 1969 until October when Law 933 declared unconstitutional.
s/ Assumes per unit costs of 800 TL for cattle and 220 TL for sheep.
5/ Assumes per unit costs of 900 TL for cattle and 250 TL for sheep.
6/ Assumes per unit costs of 1,000 TL for cattle and 260 TL for sheep.
7/ Estimated: the 1967/68 estimates were based on survey carried out by Ministry of Agriculture, while increases in other years were
determined from information collected from several sources.



S
0



ANNEX 2
Page 1
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Bank of Turkey
Background
1.        The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (ABT) is a semi-autonomous govern-
ment body responsible to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.  While its
primary objective is to extend credit for agricultural production to Turkish
farmers, it is also empowered to make credits to facilitate the marketing of
farm products and to promote the development of agricultural industries; to
set up, finance and participate in enterprises that support the agricultural
industry; to make credits to artisans; and to carry out agricultural devel-
opment projects. It may also engage in banking transactions and the insur-
ance of crops and cattle. ABT serves both private and public enterprise.
2.        ABT usually operates on its own authority according to the
Agricultural Bank Law. It may also act as agent of Government or any agency
in the execution of a specific lending program. The agricultural credit
cooperatives (ABT's main channel for extending short-term credit to farmers)
and the sales cooperatives and their unions (government instruments for
commodity, marketing and price supports) are under ABT control and super-
vision.
3.        Besides the Central Bank, there are 45 banks and financial
agencies in Turkey, including: 11 banks founded by special laws, 18 private
commercial banks operating all over Turkey, nine regional commercial banks,
five foreign commercial banks, and two investment banks -- the Industrial
Development Bank of Turkey and the Bank of Industrial Investment and Credit.
ABT accounts for about one-fourth of the total deposits of Turkey's banking
system and provides 99% of all loans to agriculture.
Organization - Staffing
4.        ABT's general policies and programs are reviewed and determined
every year by the High Regulating Board of Bank Credits, which consists
of the Ministers of Commerce and Industry (Chairman), Finance and Agriculture,
the Undersecretary of the State Planning Organization, and members of the
Board of Directors and management of ABT.
5.        ABT is administered by a board of six directors, composed of
the Chairman, appointed by a Decree of the Council of Ministers and ratified
by thie President of the Republic; three government appointees; one elected
by the agricultural credit cooperatives; and the General Director. The board
defines basic ABT operating policies. It examines and sanctions proposals
made by the management on such matters as rates of interest and commissions,
measures aimed at increasing resources, the program of general operations and



ANNEX 2
Page 2
investments, participations, applications for credits over TL 150,000, write-
offs of bad debts, and annual budget balance sheets and business reports.
6.        The General Director is the chief executive, assisted by a
Secretary General and four Assistant General Directors. Banlc personnel
numbers over 17,000, including about 200 agriculturalists. Each Assistant
General Director and the Secretary General are in charge of several of the
25 divisions making up the head office (Chart 1). Divisional clhiefs at
lhead office may approve loans up to TL 150,000 (US$10,700), but greater
amounts require board approval.
7.        ABT's 750 branches achieve a very dense coverage of the country,
with concentration, however, in the richer agricultural areas. In addition,
ABT contributes and provides credit support to some 2,000 agricultural
cooperatives, with a total membership of about 1,300,000.  Each of the                      0
eleven counties of the Village Subproject area and all the main fattening
areas would have a branch of ABT. Branches may approve loans ranging between
TL 10,000 (US$700) and TL 100,000 (US$7,000), according to their status and
performance.
The Project Loans Department
8.        The Project Loans Department, headed by the Secretary General,
was established in 1969 and includes the Encouragement and Development
Loans Division, the Supervised Agricultural Loans Division and the Projects
Bureau. The department was created mainly to carry out special programs and
handle related funds that have originated from government contributions,
foreign lending agencies, Central Bank advances, the Special Export Fund,
and its own funds.
9.        The management of the Encouragement and Development Loans
Division comprises a Director and two deputies. There are four subdivisions,
namely Agricultural Projects, Agro-Industry Projects, Research and Statistics,
and Personnel.  Total Central Office staff is 21.  It administers various                   0
special programs and funds for agricultural development, particularly in
livestock, agro-industries, transport and storage, chemicals, and export
promotion credits. As of December 31, 1970, the division controlled opera-
tions involving about Tb 220 million of credits granted.
10.       The Supervised Agricultural Loans Division handles the ABT
supervised and Topraksu credit programs.  The Projects Bureau, which in-
cludes all the agricultural technicians and engineers in the Department,
prepares farm development and loan plans; supervises their implementation;
and cooperates with, and coordinates the services of, extension and technical
agencies for the benefit of Project farms.
Auditing and Supervision
11.       As a State economic enterprise, ABT is subject to the control of
a mixed congressional commission reporting to Parliament and the supervision
of a High Control Board reporting to the Prime Minister. As a bank, ABT
is also supervised by auditors of the Ministry of Finance who insure that



ANNEX 2
Page 3
banks conform to the provisions of the banking law. In addition, the bank
has its own system of internal auditing and supervision, which consists of
two specialized groups: a bank audit group with staff of 127 and a coopera-
tive audit group with a staff of 137. The groups supervise the bank service
branches and cooperatives at least once a year and report directly to the
management. The standards of internal control and external auditing appears
to be satisfactory although final approval of accounts by the Parliament
involves long delays.
Loan Appraisal Techniques
12.       Appraisal of agricultural loans consists primarily of an assess-
ment of the value of the collateral offered by the borrower and his past
repayment record.  In branches where specialist ABT technicians are not
available, investment loans are referred to the local agents of the Ministry
of Agriculture for opinion and guidance. These agents play an important
role in determining farmers' short-term credit requirements. The field
technicians actually check farmers' request for loans in kind, such as seeds,
chemicals, fertilizers and animal feeds. For medium- and long-term borrowers,
they may assist in working out loan projects and supervise the implementation
in liaison with the branch of the bank. Forms for various types of invest-
ment loans are signed by the local representatives of the agricultural
services and the representative of the branch. The forms, properly filled
out, give adequate basic data and information to make loan decisions.
Terms and Conditions of Loans
13.       All Turkish farmers are eligible for ABT loans.  There are
ceilings to amounts that can be given to a single farmer or for a
specific project but loans in exess of ceilings can be made. Amounts are
usually granted on the basis of predetermined cost estimates of investments,
in the case of medium- and long-term loans, and a portion of standard esti-
mated operating costs or unit prices of crops in the case of short-term
loans for production or marketing.  Loans for raising productivity and
those under supervised credit programs and, in general, under special funds,
are based on field appraisals and cost estimates.
14.       ABT's general policy is to require the borrower to contribute not
less than 30% of costs estimated. ABT's security requirements, for larger
loans, including slhort-term, are usually a first mortgage. Many smaller
loans however are personal but often require security in the form of guarantors.
Generally, loans may not exceed 70% of the value of the lands offered as
guarantee. Some specific types of loans, such as supervised credit loans
up to TL 25,000, tractor purchases up to TL 40,000, and equipment loans up
to TL 20,000, may be exempt from mortgage security.
15.       Short-term loans are usually for one year but postponements and
renewals are frequently granted. Terms of loans for equipment, farm
machinery, and livestock are up to five years, without grace periods. Long-
term loans may be up to 20 years, with grace periods up to seven years.
16.       ABT, prior to August 1970, charged variable rates of interest for
different loan categories, but since the monetary reform of August 1970,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
nearly all agricultural loans are 9% to the farmer, irrespective of term.
TUnder the monetary reform legislation, it was proposed that ABT would
receive on agricultural loans, made from its own funds, an interest rate of
11.8%, of which 2.8% would be a subsidv paid from a special incentive
fund to be established in the Treasury. Tiowever, this fund has not been
established and in view of the high cost to Covernment, it is doubtful that
it will come into effect. This leaves agricultural interest rates at 97
to ABT, an overall average which is higher than previously as some interest
rates were increased from below 9%. This increase in income would be partly
offset by increases in interest rates paid on deposits and discounts. The
proposed subsidy was only to be paid on ART's own funds and would not have
affected loans made from external sources (e.g. IDA Credits). The nonim-
nlementation of this nhase of the monetary reform therefore does not
directly affect ABT's revenue from the proposed Second Livestock Development
Credit.
Activities of ABT
17.       As of December 31, 1970, agricultural and commercial loans
outstanding represented Rn% and 20%, respectively, of the total loan
portfolio. Over recent years, the proportion of agricultural loans has
tended to grow as a result of a general increase in operations for all types
of loans and, to some extent, an accumulation of overdue agricultural loans.
As of December 31, 1970, agricultural loans outstanding amounted to TL 11,023
million, over three times the amount as of December 31, 1965. Tn 1469,
A3T issued new agricultural loans in the amount of TL 7,142 million against
TT, 2,736 million in 1965.
18.       Short-term loans (Table 3) represent about 70% of the total loan
nortfolio and medium- and long-term loans about 12%, with overdue, adjusted
and bad loans making up the balance. Short-term loans are made to agricul-
tural credit cooperatives to be on-lent to farmers. The short-term loans
are intended to provide working capital for crop and livestock production.
Short-terms loans are also made for the financing of the price support pur-                0
chases of sales cooperatives and their unions. Medium- and long--term loans
supply farmers with funds for a variety of on-farm investments.
10.       ABT's resources doubled over the five-year period ending
December 31, 1970 to reach an all-time record of TT. 19,314 million. Resources
are derived mostly from deposits (about 537) and rediscounts and advances
of the Central Bank (24%). Deposits originate from the public and from
government agencies. ART is the first beneficiary among the banks of the
rediscount facilities of the Central Bank, which finance most of ABT's lending
operatlons to credit and sales cooperatives. Capital and reserves provided
onlv about 10%, a figure that has been declining in recent years. Payments
of authorized capital by Government have been constantly postponed or
curtailed, and nominal profits have prevented the build-up of significant
reserves and provisions. Specialized funds from USAID, Central Bank, and
Treasury assigned to various lending programs account for only 3% of all
resources.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
20.       The balance sheet (Table 2) reveals the pattern of ABT's use of
resources. The proportion of liquid assets to all assets (12.1%) is high
because of the legal liquidity requirements for deposits and the great
number of branches that must keep adequate cash for their current operations.
21.       The overall cost of ABT's resources has been estimated at 5.92%
in 1969 against about 5.70% in 1968 and 5.59% in 1967. Such costs are higher
than those of most other banks founded by special laws, but lower than those
of the private banks. In 1969, the average cost of funds received from
deposits was about 6.25%, including interest at 3.08% and a share in adminis-
trative expenses at 3.17%.
22.       Earning Records.  Profits of the bank have been small for a
number of years and are steadily decreasing, as shown in the profit and
loss accounts (Table 3). This is the result of heavy administrative
expenses, inadequate interest rates and commissions, and an important
proportion of unproductive assets.
Collection Records of Agricultural Loans
23.       The bank's collection record has deteriorated over recent years,
particularly in agricultural loans, for which collection rates are recorded
in the following percentage table:
' Collected                     % Uncollected
On Loans
Fallen due          On
During Year      Overdues     Total
1966         n/a             n/a        87.0             13.0
1967         76.5            8.2        84.7             15.3
1968         70.0            8.6        78.6             21.4
1969         65.5            6.9        72.4             27.6
24.       As of December 31, 1970, delinquent loans (loans in arrears, under
legal action and repayable in instalments) amounted to about TL 1,832
million 1/ (Table 4). Total delinquent loans account for about 9.4% of
assets, 13.8% of loans outstanding, and is equal to the aggregate amounts of
the paid-in capital, reserves and provisions. Delinquent agricultural loans
amount to TL 1,513 million 2/, about 16.6% of all agricultural loans,
including short-term loans made to the semi-government sales cooperatives
amounting to TL 512 million. Defaulted loans vary by region and have risen
fairly sharply in 1969 and 1970 following a severe drought in much of
eastern Turkey in 1969. ABT anticipates that most delinquent loans will be
repaid in time and this appears a reasonable assumption based on past
collections. In cases of emergency, Government through its representation
in the High Regulating Board of Bank Credits and on ABT's Board, can and
1/   TL 1,123 million (US$80 million) as of December 31, 1969; 6.7% of
assets.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
does strongly influence ABT's lending policy. In 1969, substantial funds
were distributed for fodder under drought relief program and muchl of this
is now delinquent. Following a fair season in 1970 and a good season in
1971, it is anticipated by ABT that many of these arrears will be paid
this year.
Conclusions
25.       Because of the problems associated with lending small amounts to
a very large number of borrowers, recent decline in repayments, and the
need to expand mediun- and long-term credit operations, IDA will finance
a credit study under the Fruit and Vegetable Export Project. In agricul-
ture, ABT's Project Loans Department has a record and a staff well trained
in banking practices and is considered to be a suitable lending channel.
January 12, 1972
0mk



TUdRKEY
SECOND) LIVESTOCK DEvOJA)MJ NT PROJECT
e                                                                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~groouOtoral Bank of the TherkioR Republic
Si,e of Oirect loano outstanding at end of 1966/'0        ;/
19966                                      1967                                           1968                                            1969                                             1970
oaol u.       t         Average       dm0010  .000001.                  ovorage      O onI    hbnoont                  Average       Anount A  ount                    Ove-agg Ariou A    t   A ount                   Average       Amount
Siz  of Loan                    of loan      Debtor-     loan .                 of J100      Dobtor      ]l                      loan           % f         oan Dt  1            f            btor       lon            %      of loan      Dabtora       loan          %
_t           T     L                _          I___                                                                                                                    TL                     ._                       _ TL  _  TZTL  TL  TL TL
(tilli-on)  T ..o.ands  (T hor.anld.)          (OM,li.oo(  Tooado  ( Thoonand)                 (Mil1ions)  Thoounnods  (Thoonds )             (Millio-.)   Thoo-nads  (TIousordo)              (Million-)  Thousands  (Tobonondn)
Up to I _       500                 206         893           C.3       12.9         257         807         1.3          0.9       265         820          0.3         7.4        283           788        0.4         6.5        240         699           0.3          5.2
501 -     ,0oo0                288        460            1.7       03.6         149        475         0.7          1?.2      384          516          0.7       10.6        438           569         0.7        10.0        444-       573           0.8          9.7
1, 001 -    2, 10                347         242           1.4       16. ,        445         309        1.61         15.5       548         375          1.5        15.2        602          407         1.5         3.8        658       4114           1.6         14.4
2,000 -    5'000                 380         tOO           3.0       18.1         555         186         i.0         19.4       702         223          3.1        19.5        950          262         3.2        19.64       895         274           3.2        19.5
5,001-   10,000                  232          35           6. 3      10.9         406          60        6.7          14.2       533          76         7'.         14.8        690          103         6.6        15.8        010         116           7.0        17.7
10,000 -   20,001                 197          14          1 4.0       9.61        257          P3       14.,           8.9       353          25         04.0         9.8        486            36       13.4        11.1        529          39          13.5        11.5
20,001 -   50,000                 308          11          27.3      10.5          474          17       27,6          16.5       647          23         08.0        1/.9        707            26       27.1        16.2        594          22          26.7        13.0
50,001 -  100,000                  49         (            55.0        2.4          60         (         65.o           2.1        96           2         03.0         2.6        11i             2       64.6         2.7        120           2          60.9         2.6
J (0,000 -                          45           1         315.0        7.2          65                  255.7           2.3        84                    267.0         2.2        196           0.5      363.0         4.5        273         0.7         392.1          6.0
0 T A L?,116                                1,710       1,2220      100.0       2,868       1.867    1,53i.°         100.0    3,612        2,06(1     1,753.2       100.0      6,371      2,193.0    1,992.0        100.0      4,582       2,137      0,136.0        100.0
LI  Di-eot lon  .1-Oy, not i-lolding lo.-  th -ng.  -oopeo-taovr-|



TURKEY
SEO ND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Bank of the Turkish Republic
Summarized Balance Sheets 1965-70.
(Amount in TL Million)
Fiscal Year Ended
December 31            1965    %      1966    %      1967     %      1968      %      1969     %      1970     %
Assets
Cash or equivalent       502    6.4    699    7.0       521    4.5      849    5.9       909    5.5      919    4.8
Statutory deposit        833   10.6    980    9.8    1,119    9.6    1,350    9.4    1,412    8.4   1,430    7.4
Treasury bonds and
other securities  1    150    1.9    171    1.7       253    2.2      563    3.9       522    3.1        -     -
Commercial loans       1,587   20.1  1,900   19.0    2,314   19.8   2,058   14.3    2,207   13.2    2,501   13.0
Agricultural loans     3,206   40.7  4,531   45.5   5,550   47.3    7,393   51.6    8,861   52.8  10,522   54.5
Equity Investments       230    2.9    236    2.4       236    2.1      236    1.3       257    1.5      264   1.4
Other Assets (includ-
ing sundry debtors)   1,369   17.4  1,460   14.6    1,700   14.5   1,962   13.6    2,596   15.5   3,676   19.0
Total Assets        7,877  100.0  9,977  100.0  11,693  100.0  14,411  100.0  16,764  100.0  19,312  100.0
Liabilities
Capital and reserves     993   12.6   1,014   10.2   1,309   11.2   1,342    9.3    1,347    8.0   1,815    9.4
Bonds issued             107    1.4      99    1.0       88    0.8        76    0.5       62    0.4       50    0.3
Rediscounts              742    9.4   1,648   16.5    2,288   19.6   3,437   23.8    4,342   25.9   4,642   24.0
Deposits               4,785   60.7  5,722   57.3   6,683   57.1    7,906   55.0    8,736   52.0  10,200   52.8
Other Liabilities      1,250   15.9  1J494   15.0   1,325   11.3  _1650   11.4   2,277   13.7    2,605   13.5
Total Liabilities   7,877  1100.0  9,977  100.0  11,693  100.0  14,411  100.0  16,764  100.0  19,312  100.0
1/  In 1970 included in  other assets.
January 14, 1972                                                                                                CD
*                  0                                     0 *



ANNEX 2
Table 3
TURKEU
SECOND IVlESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural BaLk of Turkey
Profit and Loss Accounts, 1965-70
Revenue                      1965     1966     1967      1968      -969        1970
TL '000'000
Interests and
comimssions received        422.1    511.0    648.2    757.5       902.8    1,085.5
Bonds, income                  5.6      7.0      10.1     32.4        31.8       27.8
Fees and comnissions on
banking services          .42.0       51.0      58.2     59.0        77.7      115.5
Profit on foreign exchange    3.7       5.0      6.3       6.7         8.2       12.5
Income of equity investments  8.8      10.0       9.8     10.5         9.5        7.8
Miscellaneous                 17.4     22.0      23.2     26.0        27.0       29.3
Total Revenue           499.7    606.0    755.9    892.0    1,057.0    1,278.4
Ebpenditures
Salaries and wages           159.4    188.0    223.7    264.7       316.6       400.4
Taxes                         18.6     24.0      29.2     37.7       41.5        58.9
Interest and commission
paid                        176.8    2114.0    321.4    402.7       523.6      660.3
Foreign exchange losses        0.1       -        -        0.2         0.4        2.8
Incentive awards on savings
accounts                     13.6     13.0      11.2     16.4        19.3       17.6
Depreciation & provisions      7.3      9.0      10.7     15.7        14.6       17.6
Other expenses and losses    54.4      79.0      82.7     91.0        98.7      106.8
1430.3    527.o    678.9    828.5    1,014.8    1,264.4
Profit                   69.4      79.0     77.0      63.5       42.2        14.0
Total expenditure & profit  499.7    606.0    755.9    892.1    1,057.(    1,278.4
_ _-=



ANNEM 2
Table 4
TURK
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PPOJECT
Delinquent Loans and Accounts
-----December 31------
1968        1969         1970
Com_ercial Loans                        ---------TL Millions----------
Overdue        .117.0                              100.6        105.0
Under legal action                  .143.8         160.7        178.0
Doubtful Loans                          4.1          4.3          4.0
loans unlikely collectible              0.3          0.3          0.3
Loans repayable in instalments         34.2         33.0         32.0
Sub-Total                         299.3        298.8        319.3
Agricultural Loans
Sales Cooperatives
Overdue under legal action             73.6         91.4
Overdue price support loans           123.1        177.5
196.7        268.9        512.0
Other Agricultural Loans
Overdue                               325.7        577.0        999.0
Under legal action                      1.6          1.6          2.0           0
327.3        578.7      1,001.0
Sub-Total, Agricultural loans     524.o        847.5      1,513.0
Other Accounts                            4.o          6.4      _
TOTAL DELINQUENT LOANS AND ACCOUNTS .. 827.3       1,152.8      1,832,3
January 14, 1972



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL DIRECTOR
SECRETARY GENERAL
ASSISTANT                         ASSISTANT                                                              ASSISTANT                          ASSISTANT
AND CHI EF OF PROJECT
GENERAL DIRECTOR                   GENERAL DIRECTOR                                                      GENERAL DIRECTOR                   GEERA L DIRECTOR
LOANS DEPARTMENT
SUPERVISED
AGRICULTURAL
to ANS
PERSONNEL                          AGRICULTURAL LOANS                EOARD OF EXAMINERS                   ACCOUNTING                         PARTICIPATIONS
COMMERCIAL LODANS                  COOPERATIVES                       ADVISORS                            CONSTRUCTION                        BANKING SERVICES
ENCOURAGEMENT                      DEPOSITSANDSAVINGS                 AGRICULTURAL                       AUDIT                               BANK PREMISES                      MONEY AND BONDS
LOAND DEVELOPMENT                  FOREIGN TRANSACTIONS               DEVELOPMENT LOANS                  BOARD OF DISC PLINE                  OFFICE SUPPLIES                    SOCIAL AFFAIRS
LANDSEEOMN                                                             EEOMN  ON
INFORMATION                        SEED DISTRIDUTION                  LEGAL DIVISION                       PERSONNEL HEALTH                   COMMUNICATION
LAND DISTRIBUTION                                                      DOMESTIC SERVICES                  PRINTING SERVICES
PLANNING
PROJECT
BU REA U             I            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __BR - 5 _ _
IRRD-4651 (SR)



6
0



ANNEX 3
Table 1
TUPKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT FROJECT
Private Village Sub-project Farm Development
Investment Proj ections
IneteTL)
Year 1                Year 2
Unit       Number      Total      Number      Total     Total      Total
INVESIkNDTS                                            Units      Cost        Units      Cost       Units      Cost       Units      Cost
Fixed
Forage and Pasture Establishment i
Fertilizer                                       Ha           200      6.o        1,200       1.0         200       7.0        1,400
Seed                                            Ha            .75      6.o          450      1.0           75       7.0          525
Land Preparation                                Ha      25C - 400      6.0        2,100      1.0          250       7.0        2,350
Weed Control                                     Ha           120      6.0          720       1.0         120       7.0          840
Fencing                                          m           7.50        go         600                             4.0          60C
Fertilizer 2nd Year                              Ha          180                              6.o       1,080       6.o        1,08C
Sab-Total                                                                         5,070                 1,725                  6,795
Livestock Barns       3
New                                                       22,000       0.25       5,500                             0.25       5,5°0
Renovations                                                4,500       0.75       3,375                             0.75       3,375
Machinery      3/
Mower and Hay Rake                                        10,000       0.3        3,000                             0.3        3,000
Sundry                                                     1,500       0.4         6Oo       0.6          9GO       1.0        1,500
Livestock    3
Heifers                                          No.         ,60o      2.0        7,200                             2.0        7,200
Nulls                                            No.        4,350      0.25       1,200                             0.25       1,200
Ewe Hoggots                                     No.           300                             3.0         900       3.0          900
Rnas                                            No.          500                              0.2         100       0.2          100
Miscellaneous                                                                        2,615                    375                 2,990
Sub-Total                                                                                                                     32,560
Working Capital        5/
Fertilizers                                      Ha           140      3.0          420                             3.0          42o
Animal Health                                    Animal       20                    250                     10                   260
Weed Control                                     Ha                    3.0          160       5.0         250                    430
Repairs                                                                                                   195                    195
Miscellaneous                                                                        90                     45                   135
Sub-Total                                                                           940                   500                  1,440
TOTAL INVESTMEHTS                                                                       29,500                  4,5oo                34,000
1/  Development comprises (a) sowing 3 Ha of semi perennial forage  crops - which last for about 4 years.
(b) fertilizing, overseeding, draining ard weed control of 3 Ha of low lying meadow land, and 1 Ha of irrigated land.
J  New barns  180 m2 cost about TL 120/m2
3/ Mower end Rake dra-wn by oxen.  Sundry machinery could include part share of wagon, crean. separator, etc.
_,/ Mainly Brown Swiss bulls and 1st cross Brown Swiss heifers - locally bred.
3/ Incremental costs of fertilizer on crop, enimal health, repairs, etc. over first two yearn.
January 14, 1972



TURKEY
SECOOND LIVESTOCK DEVE1IOBMMT PROJECT
Village Sub-Proj ect
Private Farm Development
Cattle Herd Development Projection
Value of Cattle
Years 0-6       Years 7-12        Before                                                            E N D  O F  Y E A R
Category                 Unit          1L               TL          Development             1                2                  3                 4                 5                   6                7
Breeding cows                         1,000            2,000              5                 6                6                  6                  7                7                   7
Heifers over 12 months                  700            1,400             1                  1                1                  2                 2                 2                   2                2
Calves                                  300              500             3                  3                4                  4                 4                 5                   5                5
Males over 12 months                    800            1,000             2                  2                2                  2                 2                 2                   3                3
Oxen                                  1,500            1,500             2                                   2                  2                 2                 2                   2                2
Bulls (shared)                        2,000            3,500               .25               .25               .25               .25                .25              .25                 .25               .25
Total nssmbers                                                      13.25             14.25             15.25             16.25 5            17.25           18.25               19.25             19.25
Animal units                                                            10.25              11.25            11.25              12.25             13.25             13.25               14.25            14.25
Mortality
Cows  "                                                                   1                 1                1                  1                  1                1                   1                1
Sales
Cows                                                                                        1                _                  -                  -                1                   1                 -
Heifers                                                                   -                 -                                   -                  -                -                   -                 1
Males                                                                    2                  2                2                  2                  2                2                   2                 3
Purchases
Hoit'ers                                                                                    2
Bulls                                                                                        .25
Production Data
Effective calving rate   t                                               70                70               75                 75                 80               80                  80                80
Calf mortality                                                          15                 15               10                 10                10                 8                   6                 6
Adult mortality           '5                                             8                  8                 7                 7                  6                5                   5                 5
Steer sale weight          kg liveweight                               160                360              180                200               220               220                 220              260
Cow sale weight            kg liveweight                               260                260              280                280               280               300                 300
Sale price steers          'I/kg                                         6.o                6.o              6.4                6.5                6.6              6.7                 6.8               7.0
Sale price cows            TL/kg                                         5.0                5.0              5.0                5.0                5.5              5.5                 5.5               6.o
SaLe price heifers        'I'L                                           -                  -                -                  -                  -                -                   -            2,400
Milk produced - native   kg                                            700                700               750               800                800              800                 800
- crossbred kg                                                               -            1,000             1,300              1,300             1,400              1,400             1,500
Lactations - native        So                                             3.5               4. o              2.5               3.5                3.0              2.5                 1.0               -
- crossbred   No                                                                                  2.0               1.5                2.0              3.0                 4.5               5.5
Milk produces              kg                                        2,450              2,800            3,875              4,750             5,000             6,200               7,'00            8,250
Milk to sell ikg                                                       ,L1,850                           2,750              3,750              4,000            5,200               6,100            7,250
Milk pIice per kg          Ii                                             1.1               1.1               1.2               1.2                3.2              1.2                 1.2               1.2
K Rqual total animals less calvns.
j  Af'ter dedLcling family consumptiou of about 130 l-/herd.
j  Includes consun,ption of 0.25 cow/year
tes 
(Ict-ula  1'), 11)71                                                            ~ 



TUB KSY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMEfNT  PROJECT
Village Sub-Project
Private Farm Development
Sheep Flock Development Projection
Value of Sheep                  Before
Years           Years            Development                                                        Y  E  A  R  S
0-67-12
CategorY                    Unit         -TL              11                   0-1                  5                 3                  4                    5                   6                  7-20
Rams                                      300             300                  .25                  .5                .5                 .5                   .5                  .5                  .5
Breeding ewes                             250             250                 4                    7                 7                  7                    7                   7                   7.0
Rwe hoggots                               170             170                 1.0                  1.                1.0                t.0                  1.0                 2.0                 2.0
Lambs                                     120             120                 3                    3                 5                  5                    6                   6                   6.0
Total                                                                    8.25                11.5               13.5              114.5                                    15.5                1S.5
Ewe equivalents  5/                                                             2                   ..5              85                 8.5                  8.5                 9.5                 9,5
Mortality
Ewes                                                                          1                    1                                    1                    1                   1                   1
Sales
Ewe s                                                                                                                                   1                                        1                   1
Hoggot s                                                                      2                    2                  3                 3                    4                   4                   4
Rams
Purchases
Ewes                                                                                               3
Rams                                                                                                .25                                                       .25                                     .10
Production Data
Lambing percentage                                                           80                   80                80                 8590                                     90                  90
Lamb mortality                                                               20                   20                15                 15                   10                  10                  10
Adult mortality                                                               8                    8                  6                 5                    5                   5                   5
Hoggot saleweight (kg livew.eght)                                            24                   25                26                 28                   28                  28                  28
Ewe saleweight    (                )                                          _                    _                  -                45                    -                  45                  45
Wool yielrl                                                                   1.1                  1.1                1.2               1.2                  1.3                 1.3                 1.3
Milk production                                                              20                   20                25                 25                   25                  25                  25
Lactating ewes                                                                3                    3                  4                 5                    6                   6                   6
Milk to sell                                                                 r 0                  60               100                125                  150                 150                 150
Wool '' "                                                                     7                   10                12                 13                   16                  17                  17
Milk price per  .7                                                            1.2                  1.2                1.2               1.3                  1.3                  1.3                1.3
lloggot sales (av- rm'e priee/kg)                                              I                   7                  7.5               7.5                   7.5                 7.5                7.5
Ewe sales                                                                     -                    -                  -                 5.5                  -                   6.o                 6.o
Wool soles   (   "        "   " )                                             9.0                  9.0                9.0              10.0                 10.0                10.0                10.0
1,/   -   "choeenp writl tlh  e-eptio-   5 lemis is cor-siiored one cue equivalent. Figures are after sale of hoggots.
0/ IOnluele 0.3 cwe consucmd each ye-r.



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Sub-Proiect
Private Farm Development
Income and Operating Expenses Projection
(TL)
Before
Development                      1             2             3               4               _6                                           8-12  8/
Inoome
Milk Sales:  Cattle                                              1,600                      2,000         3,450         4,500            4,800           6,240          7,320           B,700            8,700
Sheep                                                70                          70            70           120              160            200             200             200             200
Cattle Sales                                                     1,930                      3,230         2,300          2,600           2,640          4,600           4,650           5,760            5,760
Sheep Sales                                                        340                        340           350            600             840             840          1,110           1,110            1,110
Wool                                                                60                         60             90           110             130             160             170            170              170
Grain and Hay Sales   1/                                                                      660           660            660             510             120               -
Total                                                    4.000                      6_360          6.920         ,5_90           9.080          12,160         13,450          15.940           15,940
Operating Expenses
Labor    2/                                                       500                         500           500            500             500             500            500             500              500
Fertilizer    3/                                                     -                          -              -         1,260           1,260           1,260          1,060           1,060            1,060
Weed Control                                                                                    -              -           300             300             200             200            200              200
Irrigation Water    4/                                             110                        110           110            110             110             110            110             110              110
Animal Health -
Cattle    5/                                                     100                        100           100           360              400            400             430             430             430
Sheep      6/                                                     15                         15             15            50              55              60             60              60               60
Purchased Feeds    7/
Stock Pturchases -
Bull                                                                                                                                                                    500                              150
Rams                                                                                                                                                     130                             50               50
Repai,s and Maintenance -
Building                                                         150                        150           150            150             150             150            150             300              300
Machinery and Tools                                             260                         260           260            375             375             550            550             550              550
Fences                                                                                                                    20              20              20              20             20               20
Miscellaneous                                                      165                        165            165           325             330             320            320             320              370
Total                                                    1,300            11.                 300                3,450            3,500          3 _3,90             0                           38600   3,8
1/ Grain sold at Kr 110/kg Hay at Kr 40/kg additional production.
2/  Estimated labor cost at minimum wage (250 days at TL 20) in addition to consumption valued at about TL 4,000 pa.
3/ Average of TL 180/ha declining to TL 150/ha as fertility improves.
4/ TL 110/ha.
5/ TL 10/animal unit before development TL 30 thereafter.
6/ TL 2/ewe equivalent before development TI 5 thereafter.                                                                                                                                                            4 
7/  Based oi hay at TL 0.48/kg.
8/ Sales and operating expenses averaged years 8-12.
January 1H, 1972
0                                                                   0



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Village Sub-Project
Private Farm Development
Financial Projection 2/
TL)
-----------------------------------------  ---- ---~--------------  Year  ------- ------------------------------------------------------------
Before
Development         1           2          3          4          5           6          7           8          9         10          11         12          13
Cash Inflow
Annual Sales                          4,°00           6,360      6,920       8,590      9,080     12,160     13,450      15,940     15,940      15,940     15,940      15,940     15,940      15,940
Development Loan                           -         27,000      4,000
Farmers Contribution    2/                 -          2,500        500
Last Years Cash Balance                    -            520        870       1,890      2,2[0      3,030      3,890       5,840      8,580      11,120     13,660      16,200     17,740      19,280
Total                         4,000          36,380     12,290     10,480      11,320     15,190     17,340      21,780     24,520      27,060     29,600     32,140      33,680     35,220
Cash Outflow
Investments
Developmert Loan                                    27,000      4,000
Producers Contribution                               2,500        500
Operatirg Costs                       1,300           1,300      1,300       3,450      3,500      3,700       3,900      3,600       3,800      3,800      3,800       3,800      3,800       3,800
Debt Service
Development Loan  2/                                 1,210      2,600       2,790      2,790      5,600       5,600      5,600       5,600      5,600       5,600      5,600      5,600           -
Short Term Loan   _/                    180          1,500
Available Cash for Withdrawals  4/   2,000            2,000      2,000       2,000      2,000      2,000       2,000      4,000       1,000      4,000       4,000      5,000      5,000       5,000
Total Expected Cash Outflow      3,480          35,510     10,400       8,2h0      8,290     11,300     11,500      13,200     13,400      13,400     13,400      14,400     1-4,40o      8,800
Cash Balarice at Years End                 520            870      1,890       2,240      3,030      3,890       5^8b0      8,580      11,120     23,660      16,200     17,740      19,280     26,420
Incremental Herd Value
2/ Mainly in labor and in kind.                                                                                                                                                                          5
2   At 9/ interest.  Loan term is 12 years with 4 years grace.
2/ Average arrears of loans made in 1969/70 during drought years.
j/ Best estimate of likely cash withdrawals for living and other expenses.
Jarnuary 141, 1972



0                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMWT PROJECT
yViage Sub-ProJsect
Irrigation Groups
Investment Cost Projections - 30 Ha
Units      Average    Total Cost    Develoileut Phasimg   Total Cost
Required   Unit Cost   for Scheme    Year 1        Year 2    100 Schemes
Th           TL           TL T1                  TL '000
Motor Pwp (Insta.led)             1.5       10,000        15,000    10,000        5,000           1,500
Small Headworks                   O.L!      15,000         6,000      6,000                         600
New Chanels                     750.0           16        12,000      6,000       6,000           1,200
Improving Old Channels        2,000.0            6        12,000      6,000       6,000           1,200
Contingencies and Rounding               5.,00                        3,      000 2,000             500 
TOTAL                                                 50,000     31,000      19,000           5*0o0   CD
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



ANNEX 3
Table 7
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPME  PROJECT
Village Sub-Project
irrigation Grous-- 30 Ha
Income, Operating Expenses,, Cash Flow
(TL)
1   ~ 2        3-10
Cash Inflow 
Investment Loan I/                     28,000    17,000
Water Levies 2/                         4,000    12,000    15,000
Sub-Total                            32,000    29,000    15,000
Cash Outflow
Investment                             28,000   17s000
Operating Expenses 3/                   2,000     6,000     7tOOO
Sub-Total                            30,000    23,000     7O000
Annual Cash Balance Before Debt           2,000     6,0OO     8,000
Service unarge
Debt Service Charge
Interest                              1,260     3,280         -
Interest and Amortization                          - -    8,130
Annual Cash Balance                         740     2,720      (130)
Cwmilative Cash Balance                    7140    3,1460     2,420 i/
1/ Equal 90% of investment - balance in labor
2/ Charge per ha of TL 140 in year 1, TL 400 in year 2 and TL 500 years 3-10.
3/ Aual cost - fuel and pump maintenance TL 5.500, sundries TL 1,500.
TV Cunmlative surplus end of year 10.
November 14, 1971



TURKTY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Sub-Project
Irrigation Groups
Benefits to Members as a Group
H
--------------------- Years -
Before
Item                      Develoment        1            2             3-10           11
Inflow
Cereal   1/               18,150       26,)hoo       26,400        26,1400        26,400
Hay      2/                                           10,800       21,600         21,600
Straw    Y/                4,500        4,4800                                     4,800
22,650       31,200        42,000       52,800          52,800
Outflow
Water Levies   4/           -           4,000         12,000       15,000          7,000
Operating Expenses   5/   13,500        14,700       17,700        20,400         20,400
13,500       18,700        29,700       35,400          27,400
Balance                    9,150       12,500        12,300        17,400         25,400
Incremental Benefits                      3,350         3,150         8,250         16,250
Incremental Benefits per Ha                 110             95          275            540
1/ Cereal Yield - Before Development, 1,100 Kg/Ha on fallow-wheat rotation. Subsequently
yield 2,000 Kg/Ha on rotation 2 years wheat 3 years sanfoin - Price TL 1.10/Kg.
2/ Sanfoin estimated to yield average of 2,000 Kg/Ha over 3 years valued at TL 0.40.
3/  Equal to cereal yield - valued at TL 0.20/kg.
l/ Amount required to meet debt service and operating costs of irrigation system.
T/ Includes costs of labor, repairs, etc. but excludes operating costs of irrigation system.
0 



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Sub-Project
>s                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Common Meadow Development Groups
Investment Projection
Average            Average Cost               Phasirg           Total Costs
Units           Unit Cost             Per Group           Year 1       Year 2      80Greups
Investment                                     Items          Required             TL                   TL                  TL          TL           TL '000
Seed   1/                                       (ha)            150                 80                12,000              12,000            -           960
Fertilizer    /                                  "              150                300                45,000               25,000      20,000         3,600
Drainage - levelling                              "             150                175                 26,250              21,250       5,000         2,100
Fencing   3/                                   (km)               3               7, 330               22,000              22,000           -         1,760
Weed Control                                    (ha)             150                100                15,000              10,000       5,000         1,200
Contingencies and Rounding                                                                             11,000               9,000       2,000           880
Total                                                                                           131,?50              99,250      32,000        10,500
1/ Seed costs range from TL 40 to TL 120 - average TL 80.
2/ Fertilizer Year 1 150 kg, superphosphate at Kr 60, 100 kg nitrogen at Kr 77; Year 2  150 kg superphosphate 60 kg nitrogen.
3/ Costs per ha-wire  TL 5,000, posts TL 1,250, labor TL 900, sundry TL 18C.



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Sub-ProJect
Common Meadow Development Groups
Income, Operating Eenses and Cash Flow
----__--_------  Years  ----------
Item                                          1            2           3-10          11
1. Cash Inflow
(a)  Adjustment Fees I/                 11,500       21,000      42,000       23,120
(b)  Development Loan   2/              89,700      28,800
(c)  Total Cash Inflow                 101,200      49,800       42,000       23,120
2. Cash Outflow
(a) Investment
(1) Members' Contribution               -            -            -           -
(2) Development Loan              89,700       28,800             -           -
(b)  Operating Expenses   I/                 -            -      23,000       23,000
(c)  Total Cash Outflow                 89,700       28,800      23,000       23,000
3.  Annual Cash Balance                     11,500       21,000       19,000            -
4. Service Charges
(a) Develo'pment Loan
(1) Interest    i                    3,750       9,370             -            -
(2) Interest & Amortization              -            -      19,760  i          _
(b) Total Debt Service                   3,750        9,370      19,760             -
5.  Annual Cash Balance                      7,750       11,630       (  760)           -
6.  Cumulative Cash Balance  6/              7,750       19,380       13,300       13,300
/  Based on collection from members of TL 70/Ha in year one, TL 140/Ha in year two, and
TL 280/Ha in years 3-10.  Thereafter approximately TL 150/Ha.
/  Equals 90% of investment - balance in members' labor.
0     3   Fertilizer TL 18,000, fence maintenance TL 1,100 Weed Control TL 2,000 Sundries TL 1,900.
Six months interest during first year.
Development loan amortized at 9% over 8 years.
J Small cash balance to cover contingencies
January 1h, 1972
0                                           b



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
'Village Livestcrk Development Sub-Project
Common Meadow Development Co-operatives
Net Benefits to Members
(TL)
Before           -  --              Years -
Item                        Development           1            2          3-10        11 on
Inflow
Incremental Production
Hay    1/                                         -      12,000       32,600        32,600
Milk   g/                                    21,600      21,600        21,600       21,600
Total                                21,600       33,600       54,200       54,200
Outflow
Annual Fee    /                              11,500       21,000       42.,000      23,000
Incremental Benefits           -            10,100       12,600       12,200       31,200
Incremental Benefits per Ha                      70           90           90          220
l/  Net value of additional livestock production resulting from increased pasture hay
production of 660 kg per hectare valued at TL 0.33/kg (i.e. Value TL o.48 less
TL 0.15 costs of cutting, carting, etc.)
2/  Incremental milk production, 3 cows for 40 days per ha at 1 kg incremental
production per cow = 18,000 kg at 1.2 TL/kg.
3/  Annual fee to meet debt service and operating costs.
January 14, 1972



TURKEY
0
0
C+                                        SECGOD LIVESTOCK DEVEIDPNENT PROJECT
o
(I)                                              Village Sub-Project
Machinery Sub-borrowers                   v
F'                                     Investment Cost Projections for all Sub-borrowers
AWve rage-           oa   o
Investment Item                        Items              Item Cost           Total Cost
Required                TL              TL'000
Tractor 45-50 HP Diesel (No.)               200                 65,ooo           13,000
Trailer 4-Wheeled       (No.)               200                 10,500             2,100
Plough 3-Furrow         (No.)               200                  4,500               900
Disc Harrow 9 a Side    (No.)               100                  4,500               450
land Leveller           (No.)                50                  7,000               350
Grain Harvester         (No.)                50                  5,000               250
Grain Drill             (No.)                20                 15,000               300
Haybaler                 (No.)               50                 15,400               770
Sundry Plant            (No.)                                                     1,000
Sub- Total                                -                                   19,120
Contingencies                                                                      1,880
h-3
Total                                                                         21,000                            Hl ;
(DH
I/  Typical groups or individual farmers would buy a tractor, trailer and plough and perhaps
one other piece of machinery.
.~ .B     



ANNEx 3
T.ble 13
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Sub-Project
Machinery Sub-borrowers
Income, Operating Ex3enses and Cash Flow
YEARS
ITEM                                     1            2-7             8
I.  Cash Inflow
(a)  Loan - Long-Term 1/                  72,000           -
(b)  Contractor Contribution  2/          18,000           -
(c)  Contracting Income  3/               31,500        41,50o        41,5oo
(d)  Total Cash Inflow                   121,500        41,500         41,500
II.  Cash Outflow
(a)  Investments                          90,000          -              _
(b)  Operating Expenses  4i               14,800        19,800         19,800
(c)  Total Cash Outflow                  10h,800        19,800         19,800
III.  Annual Cash Balance                       16,700         21,700        21,700
IV.  Debt Service Charges
(a)  Interest 9%                           6,h8o          -              -
(b)  Interest & Amortization  5i            _           16,050
(c)  Total Debt Service                    6,480        16,050         21,700
V.  Annual Cash Balance                       10,220          5,650        21,700
VI.  Cumulative Cash Balance                   10,220        44,120  6/    65,820
1/  Investment assumed to be tractor (TL65,)000 ), trailer (TL0,500),
3-furrow plough (TI4,500), other equipment (TL10,000).
2/  Borrower contributes 20% of investment value in cash.
3/ Income based on first ploughing 150 ha at TL 130 and second ploughing
100 ha at TIBO, other work TL 10,000.
hV  Based on repairs, maintenance 10% of costs, fuel, labor, sundries.
§'/ Toan repaid in six equal installments beginning in year 2.
6 At end of year 7.
October 19, 1971



TURKEY
SEOOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Livestock Develoraent Sub-Project
Purebred Bull Stud Groups
Income, Operating Expenses and Cash Flow Projection
(TL)
Total Cost
Cost/Unit      Cost per           50 Groups
Investment Item                     Units           TL           GrL__             TL'OOO
Cattle Barn                           1          15,000           15,000            750,000
Bulls (Brown Swiss)                   3           5,000           15,000            750,000
Contingencies                                                      3.°°°            150,000
Total                                                        33,000          1,650,000
'°                                       .                Cash Flow
1            2            3-10          11
Cash Inflow                         --           Year----------------------------
Group Contribution                 3,000            --
Investment Loan  lJ               30,000                                        _
Service Fees      V                6,000      15,000          15,000       15,000
Sub-Total                      39,000      15,000          15,000      15!000
Cash Outflow
Investments                       33,000            -              -            -
Bull Replacement   3/                  -            -          2,000        2,000
Operating Expenses                 2,000        4,000          4,ooo        4 000
Sub-Total                      35,000       h,000           6,ooo 60000
Annual Cash Balance                  4,000       11,000          9,000        9,000
Service Charges
Interest                           1,350
Interest & Amortization  i/                    5,000           5jOOO
Annual Cash Balance                  2,650       6,ooo           4,O0O        9,000                        WN
Cumulative Cash Balance              2,650       8,650          40,650  5/ 49,650
I/  Equal 90% of investment balance in kind.
g/ Service fees of TL 200/cow for 25 cows per bull.
3   Replacement 20% less sales.
Loan amortized years 2-10.
At end of year 10.
-~~



ANNEX 3
Table 15
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fattening Sub-project
Model - Cattle Fattening - 40 Head Facility
Investment Projection
(TL)
No. of      Total
Investments                    Unit         Unit Cost.     Units         Cost
Fixed
Cattle Barns 1/                                18,000          1         18,000
Feed Bins and Storage                           3,000          1          3,000
Small Equi pment, Tools, Miscellaneous                                    2,250
Working Capital
Feeder Cattle 2/               per head           975         50         hB8,750
Feed 3/                                                                  18,000
90,000
1/   Cost. TL 450/head.
2/   Average weight 155 kg. at TL 6.3/kg.  Half a
years purchases.required before sale of first
lot of cattle.
3/   Half a years purchases required before sale of first
lot of cattle.
January lh, 1972



ANNEX 3
Table 16
TURKE'Y
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fatbtenins Sub-Project
Casttle Fattener - 40 Head Facility
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
(TL)
Cash Inflow                           1          2          3        h-10       11
(a)  Sales   Cattle I/             80,065   160,130   160,130   160,130   160,130
Sales -Yanure                  2S000   _4,000       4,000  LaS          hOOO
Tota!                         82,065   164,130   164,130   164,130   164.,130
Cash Outflow
Operating Epenses
Purchase - Cattle    /           48,750    97,500    97,500    97,500    97,500
Purchase - Feed      3/          18,000    36,000    36,000    36,ooo    36,000
Veterinary9 etc0                  1,200      2,)400    2,l400     2,h00     2,l400
Insurance & Transpori             1,500      3,000     3,000      3,000     3,000
Labor                             29200      4o300     4,300    4h300       4,300
Contingencies                       350        700       700        700       700
723000   1439900   143s900   143,900   143,900
1/   Annual Sales 98 at 215 kg at TL 7.60/kg.
2/  \Annual Purchase 100 at 155 kg. at TL 6.3/kg.
7/  Average TL 360/anidal.
January 14, 1972



TUPKEY
SECOND LlVESTOCK DENELOPMENT PROJECT
Fattening Sub-project
Cattle Fattener 40 Head Facility
Financial Projections
(TL)
2           3           4           5           6           7           8            9
Cash Inflow
Annual Sales                      82,o65    164,130      164,130     164,130     164,130     164,130     164,130      164,130     164,130
Producers Contribution  j         27,000
Long-term Loan                    63,0o0
Last Year Cash Balance            _            3,230      13,790      15,980      17,170      18,360      19,550       20,740      21,930
172,065    167,360     177,920     180,110      181,300     182,490     183,680     184,870     186,060
Cash Outflow
1. Investments
Producers Contribution       27,000
Long Term Loan               63,000
2. Operating Costs                72,000     143,900     143,900     143,900     143,900     143,900      143,900     143,900     143,900
3. Debt Service                     ,6
Tnterest                     2,835        5,670
Interest & Amortized                                 1h,040      14,040      14,040      i4,040       14,040      14,040
Repayments
4. Available Cash for
Withdrawals                   4,000        4,ooo      4,ooo       5,000       5,000       7,000        5,000       5,000       5,000
Total Cash Outflow               168,835     153,570     161,940     162,940     162,940     162,940      162,940     162,940     148,900
Surplus Cash at Year End             3,230      13,790      15,980      17,170      18,360      19,550       20,740      21,930      37,160
j Fatteners contribution 30% of Investments.  Fattenersalso needs to find in addition about TL 5,000 in short term requirements for labor, veterinary, insurance, etc.               v u
/ Loan Term 8 years including 2 years of grace.
Best estimate of likely cash withdrawals for living and other expenses.
January 14, 1972



ANNEX 3
Table 18
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Fattening Sub-Project
Model Sheep Fattening - 160 Head Facility
(TL)
INVESTMENTS                   Unit Cost     No. of Units    Total Cost
Fixed
Sheep Barns   v              18,000            1            18,000
Feed Bins                     3,000            1             3,000
Small Equipment, Tools
Miscellaneous                                                2,250
Sub-Total                                             23,250
Working Capital
Feeder Sheep  ?/ (per head)    244            200           48,750
Feedi    /  (per head)           90           200           18,000
Sub-Total                                             66,750
TOTAL                                                          90,000
2/ Sheep Barns cost equivalent to TL 110/head.
2/ Average sheep costs 36 kg @ TL 6.8. Number of sheep represents
half a years purchases.
3/ Based on feed costs for increase in weight by 14 kg. Amount
equivalent to half a years purchases.
January 14, 1972



Table 19
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVEI.MENT PROJECT
Model SheepD Fattening - 160 Head Facility
Sales and Operating Expenses Projection
(TL)
--------Year -
0                                                            1           2        3-10
SALES
Sheep   ,/                         83,850    167,700    167,700
Manmre                               2,000      4,000      4,000
Total                              85,850    171,700    171,700
OPERATING EXPENSES
Parchase - Sheep    2/             48,750      97,500     97,5oo
Purchase - Feed     3/             18,000      36,000     36,000
Veterinary                         11,600       3,200      3, 200
Insurance and Transport             1,,700      3,400      3,400
Labor                               3,000       6,000      6,000
Contingencies                         650       1,300      1,300
Total Operating Expenses           73,700    147,400    147,400
,/ Annual Sales 390 at 50 kg at TL 8.60 per kg
2/ Cost 400 Sheep at 36 kg at TL 6.8 per kg
2/ Average Cost equals TL 90 per animal
January 11, 1972



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H                                                                     Fattening Sub-Project
Sheep Fattener 160 [ead Facility
Financial Projection
(TL)
1           2          3           4           5            6           7           8           9
Cash Inflow
Annual Sales                                      85,850    171,700    171,700    171,700    171,700    171,700    171,700    171,700    171,700
Producers Contribution   1/                       27,000
Long-Term Loan                                    63,000
Last Year Cash Balance                                 _       5,315      19;945      26,205      31,465      36,725      41,985      47,245      52
175,850    177,015    191,645    197,905    203,165    208,425    213,685    218,945    224,205
Cash Outflow
1. Investments
Producers Contribution                      27,000
Long-Term Loan                              63,000
2.  Operating Costs                               73,700    147,400    147,400    147,400    147,400    147,400    147,400    147,400    147,400
3.  Debt Service        2/
Interest                                     2,835       5,670
Interest & Amortization                                             14,040       14,040      14,040      14,040      14,040      14,040
4.  Available Cash for Withdrawals   3/            4,000       4,2°        4,000      _ 5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000        5,000     5290
Total Cash Outflow                               170,535    157,070    165,440    166,440    166,440    166,440    166,440    166,440    152,400
Surplus Cash at Y.  - End                            5,315      19,945      26,205      31,465      36,725      41,985      47,245       52,505      71,805
1/ Fatteners contribution 30% of Investnents.  Fatteners also need to find in addition about TL 5,000 in short term requiresients for labor,
veterinary, insurance, etc.
2/ Loan Terms 8 years including 2 years of grace.
3/ Best estimate of likely cash withdrawals for living and other expenses.
*                                                       a



5,                                                                                                TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I-                                                                   Project Coat by Major Investment Item and Foreign Exchange Cost
10
Common
Private     Irrigation      Meadow      Purebred        Machinery          Cattle        Sheep                     Per Cent of      US Dollar      Foreign Exchange Component
Farms        Groups        Groups     Stud Groups      Sub-borrowers   Fatteners      Fatteners      Total        Total Cost       Equivalent                          us U8 '000
FIXED
Land Preparation                   11,750        2,850         2,100                                                                      16,700          4             1,193          45                    537
Fertilizer                         12,400                      3,600                                                                      16,000          4             1,143          80                    914
Seed                                2,625                        960                                                                       3,585           1              256          30                     77
Weed Control                        4,200                      1,200                                                                       5,400           1              386          35                    135
Fencing                             3,000                      1,760                                                                       4,760           1              340          60                    204
Barns                              44,375                                     750                           21,000         12,900         79,025         20             5,645          12                    677
Livestock                          47,000                                     750                                                         47,750          12            3,411           -                      _
Tractors                                                                                     13,000                                       13,000           3              929          50                    464
Other Machinery & Equipment        22,500        1,650                                        5,120                                       30,270           8            2,162          50                  1,081
Miscellaneous                      14,950          500           880          150             1,880          2,250          1,50O         22,110           6            1,579          355
Sub-Total                         162,800        5,000        10,500        1,650            21,000         23,250         14,400        238,600          60           17,044          27                  4,642
WORKING CAPITAL
Livestock                                                                                                   48,750         28,800         77,550          20            5,539            -
Feed                                                                                                        18,000         10,B00         28,800           7            2,057          10                    103
Fertilizer                          2,100                                                                                                  2,100           -              150          80                    120
Weed Control                        2,150                                                                                                  2,150           1              154          35                     54
Various                             2,950                                                                                                  2,950           1              211          40                      84
Sub-Total                           7,200                                                                   66,750         39,600        113,550          29            8,111            6                    361
TOTAL SUB-BORROWER INVESTMENT    170,000         5,000        10,500        1,650            21,000         90,000         54,000        352,150          29           25,155           20                 5,003
TECHNICAL SERVICES                                                                                                                          38,000          10            2,714          45                   1,221
TECHNICAL STUDIES                                                                                                                             5,600          1               400         75                     300
IorAL PROJECT COST                                                                                                                       395,750         100           28,269           23                 6,524



6
0



ANNEX 5
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursements
of a U3$16 million Credit
-0-----  u                   0s$  o0  ------------
Quarter
Quarter Ending    Disbursed   Balance   Ending    Disbursed   Balance
1972/73                                   1975/76
September 30          50        15,950   Sept. 30    1,100        2,200
December 31          450        15,500   Dec.  31       800       1,400
March    31          600        14,900   March 31        500        900
June     30          900        14,000   June  30       500         400
1973/74                                    1976/77
September 30       1,000        13,000   Sept. 30        200        200
December 31        1,200        11,800   Dec. 31         200           -
March 31           1,300        10,500
June  30           1,500         9,000
1974/75
September 30       1,500         7,500
December 31        1,500         6,000
March 31           1,400         4,600
June  30           1,300         3,300
January 14, 1972



a
0



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
00
Management and Technical Services
Cost Projections
9
1            2              3             4           Total
EXPENDITURE ITEMS                                            ----------------------- TL 'OOO -------------
Vehicles (Village Sub-project)      1                        2,940         3,700
Vehicles (Fattening Sub-project)   j                           500           260
Office Equipment                                               625          625
4,o65        4,585                                      8,650
OPERATING EXPENSES
Village Livestock Development Sub-project
Manager                                                       80            8o            80            80
Regional Sub Manager                                          60           60             60            60
Technicians                                                  840         2,300         2,300         l,L60
Administratiun (in Project area)                             400           625           625           500
Vehicle Costs                                              1,170         2,870         2,870         1,400
Air Transport                                                 60            80            8o            60
2,610        6,015          6,015         3,260        17,900
lattening Sub-project
Manager                                                       80            80            B0            80
Technicians                                                  250           420           420           310
Administration                                               120          200            200           150
Vehicle Costs                                                210           330           330           220
660        1,030          1,030           760         3,480
Consultants
Salaries, Travel and other expenses                        1,275        1,500           1,350        1,200         5,330
Contingencies                                                  455           855            795          530         2,640                  0c
Total1 Operating Expenses                                      5,000         9,400          9,200        5,753        29,350
TOTAL EXPFENDITURE                                             9,065        13,985          9,200        5,750        38,000
1i/  Includes irehio1eo for BAB project staff.



0
a



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.......    MINISTRY OF AGRICULTUJRE  ||AGRICULTURAL BANK OF TURKEY
EXECUYIVE COMMITTEE ....... .... MINISTER ~~~~~~~~~~~~GENERAL DIRECYOR AND BOARD
GENERAL DIRECTOR VETERINARY SERVICES                                                                                                               E RETR   N A
" " AGRICULTURAL SERVICES                                                       MANAGER
" " ~~STATE FARMS$.. 
" " ~~SUGAR CORPORArION .. 
~~~~~~L  5De P                                 GENRA DIRCULTORATE BzO                                 PRN KE                                PROJECT LONS DEPARTMEN Tl
SPECIA LIST  GR OUPC  IN V  DPR O PINC I   OFFI CE  PO VINCA L  O I C E  P                               PRO VIN C  & R AN C NE M
DIVISION ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P R              O J E    D      U      . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . C TO O R D IVI I NMNA GER  G |  ................MANj.ER,.-.-.f.MANAGE
MANARER DIREONAL  MAAG                      TE
INTENSIVE DAIRY  1ATOVINCIL  OFFICEPROJETDVINCIAL    ORTHEASER  |RVINCIAGELOPMIEN a ERVNCIALURAGCEM
KAR ......   E          R Z U PR              U               AGRI....                                 __... M  AON  AENTS
COUNTY                   COUNTY                     COUNTY NLBRANCH MANAGERS MR
TECHNICIANS''''''''--'-'TECHNICIANS    .  ' PRVTECHNICIANS. OFFIC'TECHNICIANS                            AND TECHNICIANS
WDrl d Bank - 6251 (3R)



6
a



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants - Draft Terms of Reference
It is proposed to employ three consultants to assist in the
training of technicians and in advising LDP's management on a number of
Project aspects.
1.        The most senior of the three consultants should have the following
qualifications:
(a) A university degree in agricultural and veterinary sciences
with emphasis on livestock produotion;
(b) Experience in agricultural development lending based on farm
plans, the organization and operation of technical services
to support agricultural lending, and the organization and
financing of different forms of farmers' associations such as
cooperatives.
He would be involved in training and demonstration activities related
to the Village Sub-Project and would be primarily responsible for: advising
the managerial staff of LDP on the formal training aspects of the Project
(including inter alia advice on the need to hire additional consultants on a
short-term basis); coordinating the Project technical studies; and for proposing,
in cooperation with the other two consultants, a system for Project performance
_       ~~evaluation.
2.        The second consultant would be mainly involved in carrying out the
Village Sub-Project and should have the following qualifications:
(a) A university degree in agricultural and veterinary sciences
with emphasis on farm management;
(b)  Experience in the management of mixed crop and livestock farms,
agricultural development lending, the preparation of farm
development plans and budgets and the supervision of the imple-
mentation of such plans;
(c)  Experience in livestock production, with special emphasis on
pasture, forage, livestock management and animal feeding.
He would be primarily involved in field activities related to the
Village Sub-Project, including staff training and demonstrations in the field.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 9
He would be responsible as wall for supervising the detailed review of the
livestock development plans,
3.        The third consultant would be mainly involved in carrying out the
Fattening Sub-Project and should have the following qualifications:
(a) A university degree in agricultural and veterinary sciences
with emphasis on farm management;
(b)  Experience in the management of livestock fattening operations,
agriculture1 development lending, the preparation of farm
development plans and budgets and the supervision of the imple-
mentation of such plans;
(c)  Experience in livestock production with special emphasis on
livestock management and animal feeding.
This consultant would be primarily involved in field activities
related to the Fattening Sub-Projectf, including staff training and demon-
strations in the field. He would also be responsible for supervising the
detailed review of the livestock development plans.
In general the three consultants should be responsible to the
GenerAl Director of LDP for the following specific duties:
(a) Giving detailed training courses to technicians and staff of
the LIP and ABT on (i) the preparation of livestock development
plans. (ii) their economic and financial evaluation, and (iii)
the implementation and supervision of such plans. This training
would involve intensive courses lasting from six to eight weeks
for groups of technicians and field training of technicians in
their own areas.
(b)  Advice on tne duties and responsibilities of livestock technici-
ans in the Directorate,,
(c) Advice on a program of overseas training for technicians and
staff employed by the Village Sub-Project and Fattening Sub-
Proj ect Divrsions o
(d)  Advice on the  reparation of formats for livestock development
plans and fsrm records as well as guidelines on their use<.
(e)  The deta:led review of not less than 10% of all livestock
devealpm-ent plens prepared during the first 12 months in which
the 0o8Ct is in operation, anid at least 5% of all such plans
during ea.ch ensuing period of 12 months, including advice to LDP
on whether these plans should be approved or rejected.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
Page 3
(f)  Advising LDP on the best means of intergrating its work with
the other agencies involved in carrying out the Project, in
order to achieve maximum efficiency.
(g) Advising LDP on the delegation to regional and county levels
of authority to approve livestock development plans.
(h)  The development of a simple bUt adequate system of keeping
records in respect of Project farms and fattening operations.
(i) Assisting the Directorate in the preparation of quarterly
reports for the Association.
(j) Assisting the staff of LDP and other agencies concerned with
the planning and preparation of further livestock projects; and
0                      (k)  Recommending a program of field demonstration to be carried out
jointly by LDP and other agencies concerned.
iMarch 14, 1972
.



I                      B            .



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Managers of LDP Divisions
Administering the Vilage and Fattening Sub-Projects
1.        Each Division Manager will:
(a)  be a university graduate in agriculture or veterinary medicine;
(b)  have at least five years? experience in livestock management;
(c)  be responsible to the General Director of the Directorate General
for Livestock Development Projects; and
(d)  be responsible for:
(i)    recruitment and supervision of project staff for their
respective divisions;
(ii)    approval or rejection of farm development plans and loan
applications;
(iii)   the provision of assistance to the consultants in fbrmu-
lating and implementing technical training programs for
project staff, including overseas training as recommended
*                             by the consultants;
(iv)    implementation of systems for keeping records on project
farms or fattening operations;
(v)    maintaining up-to-date and centralized accounts for their
respective Divisions;
(vi)    maintaining close cooperation with the Encouragement and
Development Loans Division of ABT in Ankara with respect
to loan applications and approvals;
(vii)   visiting the village Sub-Project area and main fattening
districts periodically to inspect the progress made in
carrying out the Projects;
(viii)  submitting quarterly reports to the Director General of LDP
and, through him, to IDA on project progress and expenditure
and on staff performance.
Maroh lit, 1972



6



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJJEC
Agricultural Bank of the Turkish Republic
Projected Sources of APplitation of Funds
Project Account
----------------------------------    ---------------------------__-----      Y -ar - -------------- ---------~ ~'~--------------- -------------- -------------- -------------
1           2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9            10           11           12           13           14
---------------------------------------------------------------------  TL '00------_-------------------.------^--------------------------------------------                   --____
Source of Fund.
Conetrbution IDA         1/
Village D-velopuent
(a)  Priva-e Parms                                  18,900       40,600       43,400        5,600
(b)  1-eigation Co-ops                                 392          952        1,190          476
(c)  Con_  Meadow Cu-ups                             1,005        2,331        2,653          644
(8)  Machinery Sub-borrowers                         2,352        4,704        4,704
(e)  Purebred Cattle Ca-opa                            210          420          420
Sub-Total                                  22,859      49,007       52,367        6,720
Fattenin8                                           14,110       28,225       28,225
Vehicles                                                735          925
ot-2                                    37,704       /8,157       80,592        6,720
LucaSI Cotribution       2/
15,844      33,098       34,539        2,880
PFy,net by borrowers
Interest 9%                                          2,/50        6,533       18,769       14,000       11,160        5,580
Interest and Amortitation                              _789                    5,875       18,908       34,450      45,650       56,851       56,102                     EL,III  39,629  30,114    29,057       22,400       12,200
Total                                    55,998     618,577,  136,775          42,508       45,610      51,230       56,851        56,E02      50,111        39,629       30,114       29,057       22,400       11,200
Application of Fu-ds
Lo.ns Village Develop-ent
(a)  Private Vitllge F-r-c                          27,000       58,000       62,000        8,000
(b)  Irrigation Cc-ups                                 560        1,360        1,700          680
(c) tomnon M-edow Eu-ups                             1,435        3,330        3,790          920
(d)  Machinery Sub-borrocaus                         3,360        6,720        6,720
(e)  P-rebr-d CiLlte CE-ups                            300          600          600
32,655      70,010       74,810        9,600
Loans Fattening                                        20,160            40,320 
Total                                   52,815      110,330      115,130        9,600
Repav,mnt ro Government        4/
Interest 5%.                                           941        3,837        7,809        9,989       10,160
Interest end Amortiuation                                                                                            28,585       28,585       28,585       28,585       28,585       28,585       28,585       28,585       28,585
LDP Operational oFnd   5/                                 190          770       1,560        2,000        2,030        1,950        1,780        1,590        1,370        1,150          980          760          540          280
Vehicles                                                  735          925
Administretiun         (2X)                               956        3,020         _          5,754        5,800       5,000         4,200       3,_00              0        2,400      1,300       1      ,0 500                  200
Total                                    55,637     218,882      030,063       27,243       17,990       35,535       34,565       33,775       32,955       32,135       31,365       30,445       29,625       29,065
S-rplus/Deficit                                           361         (305)      6,717       15,165       27,620       15,695       22,286       22,327       17,156        7,494       (1,251)       (1,388)     (7,225)    (17,865)
Cumuiative  Surplus (Deficit)                                           54        6,766       21,931      49,551       65,246       87,532       109,859     127,615      134,509       133,258      131,870      124,645      106,780  6/
1/ 70. of Subloans to Project p-rticipants.
2/  30, of Sobloans to Project purticipaets,  To be provided either by Gov.rmnent or fuom ABT's owe fu.lds.                                                                                                                                      r >
3/  Private village focus 4 yo.rs interest 0 y-ars amortized repayments, Fatten-,.  2 yoars tO. eroe.      6 years amorti-ed repacf-oeut, Lsomu  Meadow L-nds Groups and Irrig,ti., G-rups 2 years .       ,-terest 8 years amortized
repaynents, machinery  -otractors I year interest 6 ye-ars 5nor2zcd repaymcnts.X
4/  IDA loon funds only.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        _Oi
5/  tayno-ts of 2% tv LOP opetutiol food.
6/  Equals TL 20 million s-rpl-s over and abovo TL 84.3 -1llio- local contribution to cover losses, pro-ft.  It s-erpl-n f-rds wore re- v-cotd eoe  PFroject life at a cut 6" se-plus would eq-al approxlmatelY  TL 70 million.
January  1. 1972



,1                                                                                                                     TURKT Y
3SE;COND LIVESIOCK DE7VN3N724T PROJECT
Glovernment and ABT
Project Ceah Flo.
---------------------------- _____________,____--____--_____________________________________-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~
1             2             3               4              5               6            7             8            9             10            11             12             13            14
Source of Funds
IDA
to ABT 1/                           37704          78157         80592           6720
to Govt                              6390           7515           3590          1250
Debt Service by Sub-borrowers
Interest                               2450           6533          18769         14000           11160           5580
Interest and Amorti-aticm                              789           2B75         18908           34450          4S6S0         56851        56102         50111         39629          30114          29057         22400          11200
46544          929914        158826         40878          456io           >1230         56851        56102        50111          39629          301i4         29057          22400          11200
A"plic,tioM of Funds
Sobloais                              52815         110330         115130          9600
Project Tech Service                   9065          13985           9200          5750            3850           2600          2100         1700          1300           900            600            300
Technical Studies                      1000           '2000          2000          1000
AbT Adn.inistraticp Cost                956           3020           5564          5754            5800           5000          4200         3600          3000          2400           1800           1ift           500            200
IDA Debt Servlce 3/                     160            650           1290          1650            1700           1700          1700         1700          1700          1700           2250           2250          2250           2250
63996         129985        133184          23754          11350            9300        8d00           7000         6000           50°°           4650          365o           2750           2450
Surplu  (Deficit) Govt & ABT           (17452)       (36991)        (27358)         17124           34260          .41930        48851        49102         44111         34629          25464          25407         19650           8750
Progressive Sr,plue (Deficit)          (17452)       (5441,3)       (81801)        (64677)         (30417)         11513         60364       109466       153577         188206         213670        239077         258727         267477
2' For sob lo.0a and ABT's vehicles
7/ For technical services of LDP & studies
.3/ Includes -ehicles for AdT
W 0.75S esrvice fee years 1-10 1% repayment years 11 to 14
Combined position
includes outstanding debt to IDA of about TL 220 million to be repaid over years 15 to 50                                                  
b 0  *



SECOND L3vEs C CEDEV EOfMSNT PUOUECT
Financial Dates of Meturn for Various Ensernrt--e
Before          -------------------------    End of Year    ----------------------------------------------
Deanlor-                                                                                                                                                        FiamaEial Bate
Smnt               1               2               3               h               S               6               7             8-Si              12              of 8eturn
'0        Private Farm D-eelopment
DaSeles                             b .ooo          6,360           6,920           8,S90           9,o8o         12,160          13,M             I       1       0,94)  1  9),0  10.0931
sn Far, I-nestment                       -        (29,300)         (4,SO0)
Oa-rtIng te-es                     (I 30            I 300)         (1,300)         (3000)          (, 9500)       (3,700)         (. 710)         (3.000)         (3, ''X0)       (, 00,))
Ps> oc,,- ota 1Herd Valno                                                                                                                                                         05 l,200
Daisaslc                           227P.0         100,440)         (1 .120)         52 .0           0,07           6,06?           9,0            1.,3,1          12,140          27,3L
Incromsntal Belenac                               (2I,140)         (I, 510)        02.,hh           2,800          5,760           o,lC0           9,1hc           9,400          20,610                1'
CDmean f-eadbas Gra-p                                                                            (Yers 4-12s)
Dnrobme-tal Benefits                               21,600          33,600          024,200         51h,20
Investments                                       (99,250)        (32,000)
Incresgetal CGats                                                                 (23,000)        (23,000)
Encremertalei Balance                             (77,650)          1,600          31,200          31,200                                                                                               31 %
Irrigation Grarps                                                                                 (Yeara 0-12)
Dnersmntal Benefits                                 8,55o          19,360          30,057          30,050
Ivestm.ents                                       (31,000)        (19,000)                      - 
In.re.eatal Costs                                 ( 3,200)        (10,200)        (13,900)        (13,900)
In-re..nta1 Balance                               (25,650)        ( 9,850)         16,150          16,135                                                                                               3h%
Farebred Blal Stud Granas                                                       (Years 3-11)
Incame                                              6,000          16,000          10,000                                                                                         13,000
Investment                                        (33,000)
Operating Foenn.es                                ( 2,000)         (4,000)         (6,000)                                                                                        (6,000)
1-erementa1 Hard Va.I.                                                                                                                                                            (8.000)
Balance                                           (29,000)         11,OOD           9,000                                                                                         17,000                36.0 %
Machinery   DnE-b-rrawers                                                                        (Ye.r.  h-8)
I- -remental Benefita                              31,500          01,500          02,503          01,300
In-eetmects                                       (Y0,000)
Incr-mental Opmrating Cste                        (114,800)       (19,800)        (19,800)        (09,d0o)
Incremental Balange                               (73,300)         21,700          21, 700         21,700                                                                                                22.5%
Cattln Fatteners                                                                  (Years 3-11)
Sales                                              0?,060         164,130         16h,13)                                                                                        1l,,130
Investnat ts                                      (90,000)
Operatnng Dae-nIen                                (72,00.0)      (143,900)       (133,00')                                                                                        (76,6S0)  1
P-lance                                           (3S,03$)         20,23V          20,2331                                                                                         87.00                  25.0t
Sheen Fatt-ners                                                                   (Ycors 3-11)
Salen                                              05,300         171,700         170,373)                                                                                        171,700
I -nvstnts                                        (00,000)
Oreratigg tocen-es                                (33,200)       (1,,7,,,00)     (1-70,40)                                                                                        (0o,300)  j
Dalasos                                           (70, 5$0)        22,,3ll         22,3b01                                                                                         90),700                29.0%               %.
j/  COr-atieg Loe no-   in fieal ycar (12) r-da,-d by ..r.mO.e of ca,r ntlka            t of1oo I  001  -0,3



TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return to the Economy
(TL '000)
Incremental
Net
Year              Income              Investment           Services          Balance
1                 7,197               ( 57,710)           ( 9,065)         ( 59,578)
2                 5,440               (120,060)           (13,985)         (108,605)
3                52,788               (121,170)           ( 9,200)         ( 77,582)
4                59,631               ( 7,280)            ( 5,750)           46,601
5                65,231                      -            ( 3,850)           61,381
6                72,211                       -           ( 2,600)           69,611
7                81,991                      -            ( 2,100)           79,891
8                86,261                       -           ( 1,700)           84,561
9                86,476                      -            ( 1,300)           85,176
10                83,006                      -            (  900)            82,106
11                81,205                      -            (  600)            80,605
12               133,080  1/                  -            (  300)           132,780
13               145,634  1/                  -                  -           145,634
14               128,992  1/                   -                 -           128,992
Economic Rate of Return to the Economy 20%
oiA
J  Includes incremental value of Village Sub-Project herds and realization of startup           X
working capital comprised of feeder cattle and steers from the Fattening Sub-Project.
January 14, 1972
. it .b                                                *



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
TURKEY
SEOOND LIVESTOCK DBIMLOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions Relating to the Economic Rate of Return Calculation
The domputation of the Economic Rate of Return (Table 2) rests
on the following assumptions:
(a)  Each of the models described in Annex 3 is an average type
to be financed under the Project.
(b)  Participation of sub-borrowers in the project would be
phased as follows:
Year
1       2       3
Village farms                      1,000   2,000   2,000
Meadow land development groups        16       32      32
Irrigation development groups         20       40      40
Purebred cattle groups                10       20      20
Machinery Sub-borrowers               50      100      83
Livestock fatteners                  300      600     600
1,394   2,792   2,775
(c)  The assumed life of improvements under the Project was 12
years, except for machinery which was assumed to be 8 years.
(d) The Project cash flow consists of the aggregation of the
individual cash flows of the various models plus the cost
of operating the technical services of the Project.
(e)  Transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies on Project
goods have been adjusted.
January 14, 1972



6
a
a
a



SO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
BUlGARIAj-\                      B /ack                  S e av 
f\<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  n lu,,op               Area of inset maP   U.5.SR.
GREECE~~~      ~ pu >        Zongulduk             B- Jk                                _  r
GREECE
j;s /    2~ 4ISTAN8U
<,   f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
nckkl              I ',\>   \   _    ,     'l,r ,,    .          
uk         -Eskehr       A   N      T
Balikesr  Se -'
T U              E Y                        a-Y-   C         A P) Ru U Sc
zEmir        S                                     - N                         T at
tQ<   edrr                                           , '    Y<,   Malatya   U                   
Krovinyes in which Villoge Llvestoch Development S urf t > i1 - ¢
~2&1~  0Mu~Io   ~1-   F M                            Gazia'   ,o*  
V-,  vi~-J  Sub-proJect would  Ad                                         I  R   A   Q
_.    e  Counie tn whhVle Llvtch eepet /? e a n   US   R  U MH1 K AR S>
t i    Sub-proJect wouid be locoted       ¢         E  AlSkf   - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  .  S.  R.
H                            --b e minlylctd|1   
--- >MFoPit  aw (cattlerrand sheep)   Erzincan    Serag1 S  I   -G   R  Sea
CYPRUS 
TURKEY
SECOND LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT 
rI Povces in w|ich Village Livestock Development
----Agricultpourecl  wouldblied
_____Counties in wh oh Villcage Livestock Deve opmenes)u m
Sob jec i  he boo                    ,            ' locoted
Mojor  livestock  fattening  centers  around                                          -
which  the  Fattening  Sub-project  w  l                                                =
he  Mainly locoted                                  -
Export flow  cattle and sheep)                                                   A G60R
tfiversG R   "
Mairn highways                                      _
-.--.---Ratilroads
- iiternationial boundaries               /                _____________IRAN_
Agr~culfuvcii region boundaries                           .4n
KILOMETERO 
NiDVEMBER  i/T9TIR                                                                                         32 R



