CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 330 TU
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 330 TU
Project Agreement
(Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC
DATED SEPTEMBER 28, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 28, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE TURKISH REPUBLIC (hereinafter called ABT).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition, inter alia,
that ABT agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ABT, part of the aggregate proceeds of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ABT on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ABT, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ABT shall (i) carry out Parts A and B of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,


﻿4
economic and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose, and (ii) acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises as shall be, from time to time, necessary or useful in the conduct of
its business and the carrying out of the Project.
(b)   In the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project, ABT undertakes
that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, it shall at all times follow lending
and operating policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association and including
those set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be modified
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association and ABT.
(c)   ABT undertakes that it shall not finance any investments in livestock
development proposed by an investor eligible for a Village Sub-loan or Fattening
Sub-loan, on terms and conditions more favorable than those applicable to Village
Sub-loans or Fattening Sub-loans.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ABT undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of any Village Sub-loan or
Fattening Sub-loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ABT to replace or repair
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ABT shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of any Village Sub-loan or Fattening
Sub-loan to be used exclusively for carrying out the livestock development plan
for which such sub-loan was granted.
Section 2.04. (a) ABT shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, reports, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for Parts A and B of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   ABT: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
Parts A and B of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods


﻿5
and services financed out of the proceeds of Village Sub-loans and Fattening
Sub-loans, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to see the goods financed under the Project and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts A and
B of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of Village Sub-loans and Fattening
Sub-loans and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   Without limitation upon its obligations contained in paragraph (b) of
this Section, ABT shall establish and maintain separate accounts in respect of
Parts A and B of the Project, and in respect of each Village Sub-loan and Fattening
Sub-loan, and shall send to the Association, in the English language, (i) quarterly
statements of such accounts, authenticated by the Secretary General of ABT within
six weeks after the end of each quarter and (ii) promptly upon their preparation
but not later than five months after the end of the period covered thereby, annual
statements of such accounts, authenticated by the Secretary General of ABT and
certified by auditors acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.05. ABT (i) shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ABT
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof; (ii) apply all funds received by ABT pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project; and (iii) exercise
its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower, the Association and ABT.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ABT
Section 3.01. ABT shall designate not less than two members of the senior
staff of its Project Loans Department to serve on the Project Coordinating
Committee established pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ABT shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.


﻿6
Section 4.02. ABT shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than five months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies in the English language of its provisional
financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors in the English language and, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the provisional accounts and
financial statements of ABT and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ABT shall establish and maintain a Special Operational Fund
to be utilized, unless the Borrower, ABT, and the Association shall otherwise agree,
for the sole purpose of supplementing the funds provided for the operating expenses
of the VSD and FSD within the Directorate. Such Fund shall be established by
ABT by setting aside out of each payment to ABT of interest on Village Sub-loans
and Fattening Sub-loans under Parts A and B of the Project, amounts calculated
in the same manner and on the same principal amount as such interest, but at
the rate of one per cent (1%) per annum. Expenditures out of such Fund shall
be authorized by the General Director of the Directorate only, or any other person
duly designated by him for such purpose.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Association and ABT shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and ABT shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Project Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of ABT and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit,
Village Sub-loans and Fattening Sub-loans.
Section 5.02. The Association and ABT shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with (i) the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the Village Sub-loans, or the
Fattening Sub-loans; (ii) the performance by either of them of its obligations under


﻿7
this Project Agreement; or (iii) the performance by the Borrower and ABT of
their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ABT thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms, or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ABT of this event and, upon the giving of such
notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ABT:
T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:
Zerbank
Ankara
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
on behalf of ABT or by ABT on behalf of the Borrower under Section 2.09 of
the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Secretary
General of ABT or such other person or persons as ABT shall designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ABT shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ABT, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ABT pursuant to Section 7.02 of this
Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿9
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as cf the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Simon Aldewereld
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE
TURKISH REPUBLIC
By /s / Ahmet Tufan Gul
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procedures; Operating and Lending
Policies of ABT in respect of
Parts A and B of the Project
Request for and approvals of Village Sub-loans and Fattening Sub-loans
1.1        ABT shall grant Village Sub-loans and Fattening Sub-loans only to
eligible borrowers and only following the procedures and approvals stipulated below.
1.2        Sub-loan applications shall be submitted to the nearest branch of the
ABT or to the local technician assigned to the VSD or the FSD, as the case may
be, after which an initial credit evaluation of the applicant will be made by the
local branch of the ABT.
1.3        If the applicant's creditworthiness is found to be satisfactory to ABT,
the local technician assigned to the VSD or FSD, as the case may be, shall prepare
a livestock development plan with the applicant, which plan shall include detailed
technical and financial projections and the amount of the proposed sub-loan, and
shall form the basis for any sub-loan by ABT financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit. The livestock development plan shall be prepared in such format and
include such information as may be required by the manager of the VSD or FSD,
who shall have given due consideration to any advice given by the Consultants.
1.4        Copies of the livestock development plan as approved by the technician
shall be submitted to the local ABT branch and:
(i)        in the case of a plan for a Fattening Sub-loan, to the manager
of the FSD at Ankara or his authorized representative in Ankara;
and
(ii)       in the case of a plan for a Village Sub-loan, to the manager
of the VSD in Ankara, the regional manager of the VSD at
Erzerum or the provincial office managers of the VSD at Kars
or Agri, as the case may be.
1.5        Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each livestock
development plan shall, in order to qualify for a Village Sub-loan or Fattening
Sub-loan, have endorsed thereon the recommendation for approval of the local
technician who has prepared the plan, and of the manager of the VSD or of the
FSD at Ankara, or their authorized representatives in Ankara. The Staff of the


﻿12
VSD and FSD at Ankara will be assisted in the appraisal and review of livestock
development plans by the Consultants, and due regard will be given to their advice.
1.6        The approval or rejection of a livestock development plan by the ABT,
will be based solely on the creditworthiness of the applicant.
1.7        It is intended that as the local staff of the VSD, the FSD and the
ABT gains experience, the Association will agree that final approval of livestock
development plans for Village Sub-loans and Fattening Sub-loans may be made
at the provincial office level of the VSD and the FSD, and that final approval
of Village Sub-loans and Fattening Sub-loans may be made by ABT at the provincial
or branch level. The decentralizing of approvals of livestock development plans
and of Village Sub-loans and Fattening Sub-loans to the provincial or local office
level of the VSD and FSD and to the provincial or branch level of the ABT will
be the responsibility of the Project Coordinating Committee, established pursuant
to Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Eligibility of Borrowers
2.1         In order to qualify for the granting of a Village Sub-loan or a Fattening
Sub-loan, each applicant shall:
(i)         have proven competence and experience in the area for which
the sub-loan is to be made;
(ii)       in the case of a Village Sub-loan, carry out the livestock
development plan in the Village Sub-project Area; and
(iii)       meet all other creditworthiness criteria as shall be reasonably
established from time to time by ABT, including the provision
of a registered mortgage over the applicants' land or, in its
absence, other satisfactory security; ABT giving due regard to
the viability of each development plan.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
3.1   (a)   The total amount of any Village Sub-loan or Fattening Sub-loan shall
be, on the average, the amount or percentage of the estimated cost of the livestock
development plan to be financed therewith specified below:
(i)         in the case of Village Sub-loans to individual farmers for farm
development, to groups for irrigation development, for


﻿13
development of common meadow lands, to pur.bred bull stud
groups: the amount of all cash requirements for the plan
(estimated at about 90% of the total cost of the plan) and the
amount of complementary short-term capital required to cover
increased operating costs during the disbursement period;
(ii)       in the case of Village Sub-loans to contract groups: 80% of the
cost of machinery;
(iii)      in the case of Fattening Sub-loans: 70% of (a) the cost of fixed
investments, and (b) the cost of animals and feed required to
utilize the fixed investments over an average fattening cycle and
the costs of additional animals and feed purchased and held to
ensure continuity of operations. Sub-borrowers will contribute
the remaining 30% of these costs and will finance or obtain
financing for any additional operating costs.
(b) The estimated cost of a livestock development plan for the purposes
of a sub-loan shall include the fair value of the sub-borrowers' labor to be
contributed in carrying out the plan.
3.2         Loan terms, grace periods, interest and repayment periods for
sub-borrowers under Village Sub-loans or Fattening Sub-loans shall, unless the
Borrower and the Association otherwise agree, be as specified in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, interest shall
be paid during the grace period, and the repayment period for the principal shall
be determined in accordance with the projected net income from the development.
3.3         The standard Village Sub-loan Agreement and Fattening Sub-loan
Agreement of ABT shall include such terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory
to the Association, including, inter alia, the obligation of the sub-borrower to keep
records with regard to all improvements financed out of the proceeds of a Village
Sub-loan or a Fattening Sub-loan, good husbandry and residence covenants on the
part of the sub-borrower, disclosure and information covenants (according to
paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of this Schedule) on the part of ABT, and adequate rights
for supervision, suspension of disbursements and foreclosure and other enforcement
of security in favor of ABT. Such agreements shall provide, inter alia, that interest
shall be payable only on the outstanding principal amounts from the dates of
withdrawal of such amounts; that a Village Sub-loan or Fattening Sub-loan shall
not be subject to any commission, fee or charge in addition to the stipulated interest
payable thereon; and that any part or all of the principal amount of a Village
Sub-loan or Fattening Sub-loan may be repaid to ABT by the sub-borrower in
advance of maturity without premium or penalty.


﻿14
Approval by the Association
4.1        ABT shall not grant any Village Sub-loans or Fattening Sub-loans to
any single investor if the amount thereof, together with the amount of any other
sub-loans granted to the same investor and not repaid, shall exceed the equivalent
of $50,000, unless the livestock development plan or plans of such investor and
the terms and conditions of the proposed sub-loan, having been approved as
provided in paragraph 1.5 of this Schedule, shall also have been approved by the
Association.
Disbursements and Records
5.1        ABT shall promptly inform its borrowers of the amounts charged to
their respective Village Sub-loan or Fattening Sub-loan accounts on account of
goods or services procured, and financed under such Sub-loans, such information
to be supported with copies of the receipts for such goods or services in the amounts
so charged.
5.2        ABT shall furnish semi-annual statements to each borrower, showing
the amounts drawn on the borrower's sub-loan account, including interest, payments
made and the outstanding balance of the respective sub-loan.
Supervision
6.1        ABT shall ensure that amounts drawn on sub-loan accounts are applied
exclusively to expenditures on the livestock development plan for which such
sub-loan was granted.
6.2        VSD, FSD and ABT staff shall regularly visit the locations where
livestock development plans financed with Village Sub-loans or Fattening Sub-loans
are being carried out, to ensure that borrowers are effectively and punctually
carrying out such plans and complying with the provisions of their respective
sub-loan agreements with ABT.


