Report No. 633a-PH                  7*    ; "    '';'  FILE                                        C      P
Appraisal of                                                                      FE                     PY
The Rural Development Project
Philippines                                                                         RETURN TO
R E P 0 RlREPORTS D3 SS .
March 14, 1975                                                                           WITHIN
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department                                            ONE   WEEK
Irrigation and Area Development Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only hy the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept respomibility for the accuracy or (ompleteness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    Pesos (r) 6.90
1 1.00         =    US$0.145
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)                 =    2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2       =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )       =    0.3886 square miles
1 meter (m)      2                  39.37 inches
1 square meter (m )            =    10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)         3        35.31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)        810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)              =    0.039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)                =    2.2 pounds
1 cavan (paddy)                =    50 kg
20 cavans                      =    1 metric ton
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
ACA       =    Agricultural Credit Administration
ADCC      =    Agricultural Development Coordinating Council
BAE       =    Bureau of Agricultural Extension
BPI       =    Bureau of Plant Industry
CCC       =    Cabinet Coordinating Committee for Rural Development
DA        =    Department of Agriculture
DAR       =    Department of Agrarian Reform
DBP       =    Development Bank of the Philippines
DH             Department of Public Health
DLGCD     =    Department of Local Government and Community Development
DNR            Department of Natural Resources
DPH       =    Department of Public Highways
DPW       =    Department of Public Works
NEDA      =    National Economic and Development Authority
NIA       =    National Irrigation Administration
NSCC      =    National Schistosomiasis Control Commission
PANAMIN   =    Presidential Assistant on National Minorities
PDAP      =    Provincial Development Assistance Program
PNB       =    Philippine National Bank
RB        =    Rural Banks
UPRP      =    Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..............................                i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                 1
II.    BACKGROUND           ................................                    1
General  ..........................................                1
Agriculture and Rural Development ....              ............   1
Project Formulation ..............................                 2
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ......................                                    3
General ..........................................
Climate ........................                                   3
Topography, Drainage and Soils  .............                      3
Population        ................................                 4
The Mangyans ......................                                4
Land Tenure and Farm Size ..... ...........                        4
Agricultural Production  ..... ............                        5
Existing Water Control Facilities  .............                   6
Transportation .....................                               7
Public Health       ...............................                8
Institutions       ................................                8
IV.    THE PROJECT ...........................................                  9
Water Control .....................                                9
Roads and Calapan Port  .....           ......................   10
Agricultural Program .....            ........................   11
Schistosomiasis Control .....            .....................   11
Mangyan Assistance .............        ..     ................    12
Implementation .................            ..................    13
Cost Estimates  .................           ..................   13
Financing  ...................           .....................   14
Procurement  ..................           ....................   14
Disbursements  .................           ...................   15
Accounts and Audit  .............       ..     ................   16
Supervision ..................            ....................   16
Environms.ntal Effects ........... ..           ...............   16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs.
F. Lowenstein, K.V.S.K. Nathan (Bank), R. Shukle and S.C. Chang (Consultants).
Mr. A. L. Gram (Consultant) evaluated the schistosomiasis control part of the
Project. Messrs. R.L.P. Harris and E.G. Giglioli were mainly responsible
for preparing the report.



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................  17
Central Project Organization ......       ................   17
Provincial Organization ..........................  17
Agency Responsibilities ..........................  18
Supporting Agricultural Services ....       .............  19
Monitoring Benefits ..............................  20
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance            21
Water Charges ....................................   21
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND
FARM INCOMES .......................................    22
Production ......................................    23
Market Prospects ................................    23
Prices ..........................................    24
Farm Incomes ....................................    24
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................    26
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....        ............   27
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data
2.   Land Tenure and Reform
3.   Water Control
4.   Roads and Calapan Port
5.   Agricultural Program and Supporting Services
6.   Schistosomiasis Control
7.   Mangyan Assistance
8.   Cost Estimates
9.   Equipment List
10.   Schedule of Expenditure and Disbursements
11.   Production and Farm Budgets
12.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 9373 (R)
Project Organization No. 9374 (R)
MAPS
Water Control and Crop Distribution No. 11160
Transportation System No. 11159



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group assist-
ance to carry out the Rural Development Project on the island of Mindoro,
about 45 km south of Luzon. The project consists of the improvement and
extension of national and communal irrigation systems; a watershed protection
program; construction and Improvement of national highways, provincial roads,
bridges and port facilities; certified rice seed and rat control programs;
schistosomiasis control measures; and assistance for minority tribes known
as the Mangyans.
ii.       Government strategy is te give priority for development to
relatively backward regicns with good agricultural potential. The proposed
project would be the first Bank-assisted project of this type in the Philip-
pines. The objectives are to help correct regional economic and social
imbalances, to assist natioctal programs for food grain self-sufficiency
and to build up government services for planning and implementing projects
in rural areas. In line with these objectives, the project would remove
a major obstacle to the development of Mindoro by improving the island's
rural transportation system. It would provide irrijgation to achieve maximum
production where potential exists, and would include an island-wide agricul-
tural program to benefit all paddy farmers. It would also help solve two
particular health and social problems - schistosomiasis and the status of
the Mangyans.
iii.      Total project cost is estimated at 1 345.0 million (US$50.0
million) of which US$21.6 million, or approximately 43%, would be in foreign
exchange. The Bank would finanee the foreign exchange component as well as
US$3.4 million of local currency requirements. Civil works for the national
highways and provincial roads (US$13.0 million) and equipment and vehicles
(US$4.0 million) would be awarded after international competitive bidding.
Civil works for the national irrigation systems (US$5.2 million) and Calapan
port (US$0.2 million) would be carried out by contract, but because of
their nature would not be suitable for international competitive bidding.
Consultants would be employed to assist with hydro-meteorological studies
to provide data for planning development of the island's water resources,
and to carry out studies and, if warranted, detailed engineering of a
national highway in Occidental Mindoro, the less developed of the island's
two provinces. Contingencies amount to US$19.0 million, of which US$14.7
million are for anticipated price increases.
iv.       Implementation is scheduled to take five years.  It would require
coordination between a number of Government departments and agencies. A
Project Director under the Cabinet Coordinating Committee for Rural Develop-
ment would be responsible for coordination and implementation at the



- ii -
national level. He would be chairman of a Steering Committee composed of
senior officers from the participating departments and agencies and the
Governors of the two Mindoro provinces. The Governors would be responsible
for implementation at the provincial level through their Provincial Develop-
ment Councils.
v.        At full development in 1985, annual paddy production from the
island as a result of the project is expected to reach 340,000 tons compared
with current production of 235,000 tons. The increased production would
provide enough rice to feed over half a million people a year.
vi.       The project would benefit directly some 30,000 poor paddy farmers,
representing about 200,000 people or 40% of the island's population. It
would create the equivalent of some 13,000 seasonal agricultural jobs.
Annual per capita incomes on average size farms would rise from about
US$70-140 at present, or 30%-60% of per capita GNP, to US$90-265 at full
agricultural development in 1985. Even the highest of these incomes would
still be below the projected national average. Indirectly, the project
would benefit an even larger number of people through improvements to
the national highways, provincial roads and Calapan port, and programs to
protect four of the island's major watersheds, control schistosomiasis
and assist the Mangyans.
vii.      The economic rate of return on the national highway improvements
is expected to be about 18%. For the irrigation systems, agricultural
program and provincial roads taken together, the rates of return range
between 15% and 25%. Sensitivity analysis indicates that under a number of
adverse assumptions, the rates of return would not fall below 10%. No
attempt was made to quantify the benefits from the other project components,
but they would all be justified as improving the incomes and living con-
ditions of Mindoro's rural population.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0
million for a period of 25 years, including a seven year grace period.
The borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUICTION
1.01      The Government of the Philippines has requested Bank Group
assistance in financing a Rural Development Project on the island of
Mindoro. The project would provide irrigation and improved agricultural
supporting programs; construction of roads and port improvements; schistoso-
miasis control measures; and assistance for primitive tribes that live in
the island's interior.
1.02      The project was prepared by the Government of the Philippines with
assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This report is based on
the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the Philippines in June
1974, composed of Messrs. F. Lowenstein, K.V.S.K. Nathan (Bank), R. Shukle
and S. C. Chang (Consultants). Mr. A. L. Gram (Consultant) visited the
Philippines in September 1974 to evaluate proposals for the schistosomiasis
control portion of the project. Messrs. R.L.P. Harris and E.G. Giglioli
were mainly responsible for the preparation of this report.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      The Philippines covers some 297,000 km  scattered over more than
7,000 islands between the Pacific Ocean and the China Sea. The 45 largest
islands account for 98% of the area. The population is around 39 million
(1972), growing at a rate of 3% annually. Real GNP grew at 5% to 6% a year
during the last decade and was US$220 per capita in 1972 1/.   GNP grew by
10% in 1973 and an estimated 7% in 1974 due to booming export earnings,
strong recovery in agricultural and industrial production for the domestic
market and an improved investment climate. Major economic problems are
inflation, unequal income distribution and unemployment, particularly in
rural areas.
Agriculture and Rural Development
2.02      Agriculture accounts for about one-third of net domestic product,
one-half of total employment and 70% of commodity export earnings. Most
farms are small with low productivity, yields and income. Since the late
1960's, agricultural output has grown at an average annual rate of 4 to 5%,
stimulated by the spread of improved rice varieties. In 1972, typhoons
1/   World Bank Atlas, 1974.



- 2 -
disrupted food production and led to shortages. The food supply position
has since improved with the good harvest of 1973/74, and production appears
to be back on its long term trend. Improvements in agricultural labor pro-
ductivity have helped to narrow the gap between incomes in agriculture and
other sectors, although agricultural incomes are still much lower. Farmers
using improved technology, such as the new rice varieties, have shared in
the higher incomes, but those continuing in traditional ways have been
largely unaffected. Agricultural sector performance will be crucial in
determining whether the drive toward a more rapid and more equitable income
expansion succeeds. The major sector goals are self-sufficiency in food
grains, expansion of exports, intensification of agrarian reform and
conservation of natural resources.
2.03      To date the national government departments and agencies have
dominated the rural development effort in the Philippines. National plans,
however, have frequently failed to reflect provincial and local needs. Since
1972 Government policy has shifted towards increased local participation
in development planning and implementation. Provincial Development Councils
have been formed in each province, made up of local representatives of all
national and provincial government agencies. The capability of these
Councils to plan and implement projects, however, is still weak. Regional
Development Councils have also been set up under control of the National
Economic and Development Authority (NEDA). To better integrate rural
development efforts, a Cabinet Coordinating Committee for Rural Development
(CCC) 1/ was formed under NEDA in July 1973.
Project Formulation
2.04      Government strategy is to give priority for development to
relatively backward regions with good agricultural potential. The objectives
are to help correct regional economic and social imbalances, to assist
national programs for food grain self-sufficiency and to build up Goverment
services for planning and implementing projects in rural areas. The pro-
posed rural development project, the first Bank-assisted project of its
kind in the Philippines, was chosen to meet these objectives. With its
favorable climate and relative freedom from typhoons, Mindoro is an alter-
native granary to Central Luzon to supply food deficit areas. Heavy im-
migration from Luzon and natural population growth have led to a situation
where potential economic activity has outstripped the capacity of the
rudimentary rural infrastructure. The project would remove a major obstacle
to the island's development by improving the rural transportation system.
It would provide irrigation to achieve maximum production where potential
exists, and would include an island-wide agricultural program to benefit all
paddy farmers, whose per capita incomes are typically 30%-60% of national
per capita GNP. It would also help solve two of the island's particular
health and social problems - schistosomiasis and the status of minority
tribes - and thereby improve rural living conditions.
1/   The Committee consists of the Secretaries of the Department of Agricul-
ture (Chairman), Natural Resources, Public Works, Public Highways,
Finance, Local Government and Community Development, and Agrarian Reform.



III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The island of Mindoro is separated from Luzon by a sea crossing
of about 45 km. It is divided administratively into two provinces -
Oriental Mindoro and Occidental Mindoro. A high mountain range runs north
and south through the center of the island, between the two provinces.
The mountains are fringed by foothills and coastal plains where most of
the population lives. The coastal plains, never more than 20 km wide, are
widest in the northeast, between Calapan and Roxas in Oriental Mindoro and
around San Jose in Occidental Mindoro (Map 11160).
3.02      There are a number of small towns around the periphery of the
island, with populations of between 5,000 and 10,000. The larger towns,
such as Calapan in Oriental and San Jose in Occidental Mindoro, provide
banking, storage and processing facilities as well as supplies of inputs
to surrounding agricultural areas. Roads and bridges are generally in-
adequate, poorly maintained and present serious problems for the movement
of goods and services.
Climate
3.03      Mindoro's climate is tropical and humid, with annual rainfall
averaging about 2,000 mm in both provinces. Occidental Mindoro has a
pronounced dry season of about six months. Although rainfall is better
distributed in Oriental Mindoro, there are three to four months when rain
is scarce. The rainfall pattern also shows significant variation from year
to year (Annex 1). Typhoons often pass near the island, but damage is
seldom serious.
Topography, Drainage and Soils
3.04      The central spine of Mindoro is rugged and moutainous with
elevation up to 1,000 m. The foothills are mainly marine deposits of
varying age while the coastal plains are mainly of recent alluvial origin.
Rocky hills on the east of the island near Lake Naujan are inactive volcanic
cones. Around the periphery of the island are small deltaic flood plains
separated by hilly spurs extending toward the sea. These plains are dis-
sected by a network of natural creeks collecting local runoff, river over-
flows and drainage from national and communal irrigation systems. Drainage
courses in the irrigation areas are often winding and narrow with insuf-
ficient outlets. Coastal fish ponds impede disposal of surplus water in
some areas. Major drainage channels are needed in the low-lying plains to
avoid ponding of water and resultant crop damage.



- 4 -
3.05      The island covers about one million ha of which the central 55% is
classified by the Bureau of Soils as undifferentiated rough mountain land.
About 270,000 ha or slightly more than half the agricultural land around the
edges of the island is currently used for rice, upland crops and coconut.
The soils are dark brown, compact, fine textured silty clays and clay loams
with neutral to slightly acidic reactions, and slow internal drainage. The
remaining area is marginal land, steep and subject to erosion, with potential
only for pasture under careful management.
Population
3.06      About 500,000 people live on Mindoro, with 30% in Occidental and
70% in Oriental. Some 70% of the labor force is employed in agriculture,
fisheries and forestry. The remainder work in small scale manufacturing,
mining and agro-inidustries, or as 'craftsmen, trade and service workers in
the towns. Seasonal under-employment is high, especially in areas where
only one rice crop is grown. Nevertheless, there has been heavy immigration
from Luzon, especially during the last 15 years. From 1960 to 1970, average
annual population growth was 3.6% in Oriental Mindoro and 5.4% in Occidental.
About 45% of the island's population is under 15 years of age. The literacy
rate is high, with 85% of the population over age seven able to read and
write.
The Mangyans
3.07      The original inhabitants of the island, numbering about 80,000 and
known collectively as the Mangyans, have been forced back into the mountains
by land pressure on the coastal plains. Although many have permanent
contact with the lowlanders, some remain true hill tribe people, shunning
outside contact and living in great poverty. The Mangyans traditionally
practice shifting cultivation. Because their area has been progressively
restricted, the cycle of cultivating each piece of land has been shortened
to the point where yields are too low to support subsistence, droughts
have more serious effects, and erosion and watershed destruction are real
hazards.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
3.08      The Government is committed to agrarian reform and is moving ahead
rapidly with its program to transfer land ownership to the nation's one
million rice and corn farm tenants. By the end of November 1974, land
transfer certificates had been issued to about 189,000 out of 323,000 tenants
on holdings of 24 ha and above. The Government recently decreed that the
program would be implemented on all tenanted rice and corn holdings down to
7 ha. This may be difficult due to increased resistance from medium-size
owners, but the Government is committed to pressing ahead with the program
in view of the substantial land and income redistribution effects that would



- 5 -
result. Implementation below 7 ha would be extremely difficult and benefits
less obvious (Annex 2).
3.09      The 100,000 ha of rice and 23,000 ha of corn lands in Mtindoro are
cultivated by 19,000 owner-operators and 24,000 tenant farmers. As of
September 1974 there were major differences in the tenure pattern and
average size of farm between the two provinces; Occidental Mindoro had a
higher tenancy rate (80% compared with 20% in Oriental), generally larger
farm size (average farm size 4.6 ha compared with 2.2 ha in Oriental)
and a smaller difference in farm size between owner-operators and tenants.
There were some 9,500 owners of tenanted rice and corn land in the two
provinces, again with a substantial difference in the pattern of ownership
between the provinces, with Occidental Mindoro showing a higher degree of
skewness.
3.10      The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) has concentrated its
activities in Mindoro on the Occidental side, particularly the large estates.
DAR has already resettled two estates near San Jose and is completing pre-
paratory work on several estates near Sablayan. The issue of land transfer
certificates to all rice and corn tenants in both provinces on holdings of
7 ha and above would mean the transfer of 32,500 ha or 73% of the tenanted
area to 6,100 tenant farmers in Occidental Mindoro and 5,800 ha or 40% of
the tenanted area to 5,700 tenants in Oriental. Because of lower population
density in Occidental Mindoro, tenants would receive larger holdings. The
small tenant holdings in Oriental are more typical of the Philippines as
a whole. Although there is still a long way to go, the successful com-
pletion of this stage of the agrarian reform would result in some 103,000 ha
or 84% of the island's rice and corn lands being cultivated by 31,000
owner-operators, or 72% of the farmers. This would leave about 12,000 far-
mers on holdings less than 7 ha under some form of leasehold. There is
not likely to be any change in the size of farm operating units in Oriental
Mindoro, though in Occidental it is likely that farms will become smaller
as population increases.
Agricultural Production
3.11      Paddy is by far the most important crop in Mindoro.  Paddy areas
are concentrated in the lowlands and coastal plains of both provinces.
Diversified cropping, mainly corn and legumes, is practiced in the drier,
non-irrigated areas. Tobacco is an alternative dry season crop in the
San Jose area of Occidental Mindoro. Coconuts are grown in the foothills
and in the coastal lowlands of Oriental Mindoro where soils are too sandy
for paddy. Other tree crops include bananas, citrus and other fruits, grown
mostly in the foothills. The cultivated area more than doubled from 1960
to 1973 with about 80% of the increase due to paddy. Little free land remains,
although some occupied lands could be more fully used, particularly in the
Sablayan area of Occidental Mindoro and in the recently settled foothills
(Map 11160).



3.12      Paddy is grown on about 90,000 ha in the wet season, about evenly
distributed between the two provinces, and 50,000 ha in the dry season,
almost all in Oriental. Upland rice covers some 10,000 ha. Yields with
irrigation are currently around 2.2 ton/ha in the wet season and 2.4 ton/ha
in the dry season. Average yields under rainfed conditions are around
1.8 ton/ha in the wet season and 1.3 ton/ha in the dry season. Where high
yielding varieties, fertilizers and other inputs are available under the
Government's "Masagana 99" supervised credit program, reported yields are
3.5 ton/ha irrigated and 2.6 ton/ha rainfed. A major bottleneck to expanding
this program is a shortage of certified seed. Rat damage is also a problem.
Total paddy production from the island at present is about 235,000 tons.
3.13      Most farmers rely almost entirely on animal power for land prepara-
tion, but a few are starting to use a combination of animal drawn and mechanical
equipment for more timely land preparation to achieve double cropping. These
farmers increasingly hire four-wheel tractors for first plowing, using the
water buffalo for harrowing, leveling and general transportation.
3.14      Corn is often grown as an intercrop, either with mungbeans or
vegetables or as a cash crop between coconuts or fruit trees. Cultivation
standards are poor; little or no fertilizer is used and weed control is
inadequate. Disease and rats cause serious losses and yields are consequently
low at about 1.0 ton/ha. Out of some 47,000 ha under coconut, only about
18,000 ha are nut-bearing. The reason for non-bearing trees is not clear and
should be thoroughly studied before planning future development. Average yield
for bearing trees is 36 nuts per tree giving about 1.0 ton/ha of copra. The
trees are chiefly unselected tall varieties. Rat damage is a major problem.
Existing Water Control Facilities
3.15      Numerous rivers arise in the central mountain range.  In relation
to the volumes of water discharged, several major rivers have short courses,
small watersheds and tend to be torrential with unstable courses. Nevertheless,
many are diverted for run-of-the-river gravity irrigation, often supplemented
in the dry season by pumping from the rivers and from wells in the alluvium
bordering the rivers. In addition there are nearly 1,000 free-flow artesian
wells in northeastern Oriental Mindoro.
3.16      Irrigation covers about 40,000 ha in the rainy season and 30,000
ha in the dry season, mostly in Oriental Mindoro. There are only two national
irrigation systems on the island built, operated and maintained by the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA). Both are in Oriental Mindoro.
The Baco-Bucayao system (8,000 ha) was brought into operation only in 1973,
but was immediately damaged by river flooding. The Pula system (2,000 ha)
is older and suffers from poor drainage (Map 11160). Most irrigation on



Mindoro comes from small communal gravity systems built and operated by
groups of farmers or by individuals on the smaller, more stable streams.
These systems have simple diversion structures, frequently of brushwood,
and normally irrigate from 100 to 300 ha each.
3.17      There are about 1,000 privately owned small gasoline or diesel-
powered pumps irrigating an estimated 10,000 ha from streams and wells. The
annual groundwater recharge in Oriental Mindoro seems adequate to support
larger extraction by small pumps, and the number of loans extended by the
Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) and the Philippine National Bank
(PNB) for the purchase of pumps is increasing rapidly. In the San Jose
area of Occidental Mindoro, there is serious risk of over-pumping. There
seems to be better potential in the less developed Sablayan area. A care-
ful appraisal of the aquifer characteristics and of the annual recharge is
needed because of the rapid increase in pumping over the last three years.
3.18      No significant replanting of forests has taken place and insuffi-
cient control has been exercised over logging and forest clearing. Watersheds
are not surveyed or marked, and are not protected or managed. Better pro-
tection and in some cases reforestation of major watersheds is important
for irrigation and flood control.
Transportation
3.19      The two provinces are not connected by road, and their transport-
ation systems are developed to different degrees. In Oriental Mindoro there
has been fairly active road building with a main national highway running
along to coast from Puerto Galera to Calapan and then to Bulalacao (Map 11159).
Because of the national highway, coastal shipping hardly exists and almost
all produce is moved by road. Highway traffic from Calapan to Roxas City
averaged between 900 and 250 vehicles per day in 1973, and peak volumes were
much higher. But due to poor design and heavy traffic conditions, the high-
way is deteriorating rapidly. There are few good provincial and farm-to-
provincial roads, and many wooden bridges are dilapidated and unusable. The
road situation in Occidental Mindoro is much worse and presents tremendous
development problems. The main route in the province from San Jose to
Mamburao crosses several large, torrential rivers with unstable courses.
For this reason only a rudimentary track exists and the Sablayan area can
only be reached by sea for most of the year. Numerous small piers have
been built along the Occidental coast and most farm produce is moved by sea
in small boats at high cost.
3.20      The island's two main ports are the national port of Calapan in
Oriental Mindoro and the municipal port of San Jose in Occidental. About
2,500 vessels called at Calapan in 1973, carrying a total of 800,000 pas-
sengers and 72,000 tons of cargo. This represents about 60% of all pas-
senger and cargo movements between Mindoro and the rest of the Philippines.



- 8 -
There is a regular ferry service for passengers and goods from Calapan to
Batangas, from which Manila can be reached by road in about two hours.
From San Jose there are regular sailings to Manila with a connection to
Palawan Island--a market for rice and a source of seasonal labor. Air
transport is not yet fully developed; the only commercial airport is in
Occidental Mindoro at San Jose.
Public Health
3.21      The main health problems are malaria and schistosomiasis.  In parts
of Occidential Mindoro, malaria incidence rates of three per thousand still
occur, and about 8,000 cases of schistosomiasis have been diagnosed in the
Lake Naujan area of Oriental Mindoro. Control programs are inadequately
staffed and funded.
Institutions
3.22      Agencies of the national government provide most development services
in Mindoro, while provincial Governors and their staffs provide coordination.
Provincial Development Councils chaired by the Governors with representatives
from all agencies meet monthly, but successful integration of government pro-
grams remains a problem.
3.23      NIA planned, built and operates the two national irrigation
systems. It also helps with construction of communal gravity systems, supplies
small pumps and assists in their installation. NIA's capacity in Mindoro
is limited; the staff is almost fully occupied in running the national systems
and has little time or funds for the communal schemes. The national roads
and bridges were constructed and are maintained by the Department of Public'
Highways (DPH). Calapan port is the responsibility of the Department of
Public Works (DPW). Other infrastructure works are constructed and main-
tained by the provincial and municipal governements. Agricultural services
are provided by various Bureaus 1/ of the Departments of Agriculture (DA)
and Natural Resources (DNR). PNB, with branch offices in Calapan, San Jose
and Mamburao, and 18 privately owned Rural Banks have rapidly expanded the
supply of institutional production credit during the past two years under the
Masagana 99 program.   Medium to long-term credit is provided mostly by DBP,
which has branches in Calapan and San Jose. Health services are provided
by the Department of Health (DH) through provincial hospitals in Calapan,
Mamburao and San Jose, and through a network of rural health centers. All
1/   These include the Bureau of Animal Industry, Bureau of Soils, Bureau
of Plant Industry and Bureau of Agricultural Extension of DA and the
Bureau of Forest Development of DNR.



- 9 -
schistosomiasis control work is carried out under the direction of the
National Schistosomiasis Control Commission (NSCC). 1/ One of the Philippines'
six regional schistosomiasis control teams is stationed in Oriental Mindoro.
Little medical or other assistance reaches the Mangyan population except by
special programs under the Presidential Assistant on National Minorities
(PANAMIN) and through religious missions.
3.24      Local government activities in Mindoro include the formation of
farmer associations, advice to barrio and municipal councils, and training
in local government administration. Oriental Mindoro is further advanced
than Occidental because of its earlier and more extensive development,
greater revenue base and easier access to Manila. Oriental Mindoro partic-
ipates in the U.S. - assisted Provincial Development Assistance Program
(PDAP) and has set up a three-man development staff attached to the Governor's
office.  Under the PDAP, the province has set up a motor equipment pool with
surplus U.S. military equipment, and has a training program for mechanics and
engineers. Other PDAP activities include provincial infrastructure planning
and training of tax officers in assessment and collection. To date, Occi-
dental Mindoro has not been included in PDAP.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would increase farm incomes and improve living
standards in rural Mindor6 by providing improved water control; construction
of roads, bridges and improved port facilities; certified rice seed and
rat control programs; schistosomiasis control measures; and assistance for
the Mangyans. The project would provide consultant services to assist in
carrying out hydro-meteorological studies and to carry out feasibility
studies and, if warranted, detailed engineering of a national highway in
Occidental Mindoro. Project components are described in detail in Annexes
3-7 and are summarized below.
Water Control (US$9.2 million)
4.02      The water control program (Annex 3) would include:
(a) improvement of the Pula and Baco-Bucayao national
irrigation systems now serving about 10,000 ha
and extension of these systems to serve an additional
2,000 ha;
1/  NSC is chaired by the Secretary of Health and includes the Secretaries
of Education and Culture, Agriculture, Natural Resources, Local Govern-
ment and Community Development, the Director General of NEDA, The Com-
missioner of the Budget, the Administrator of NIA and the President
of the Philippines Medical Association.



- 10 -
(b)  improvement and extension of about 2,000 ha of communal
gravity irrigation systems in Oriental Mindoro and about
1,000 ha of communal pump irrigation systems in
Occidental Mindoro;
(c) establishment of a network of river gauging and meteorological
stations to improve the hydrological data base in the two
provinces;
(d) introduction of watershed protection programs in four
river watersheds, three in Oriental and one in Occidental
Mindoro; and
(e) procurement of vehicles and equipment for the construction,
operation and maintenance of national and communal irrigation
systems.
4.03      The 3,000 ha of communal irrigation systems to be constructed
or improved under the project would be largely pilot in nature. They would
allow NIA to work out standards, policies and procedures for planning, design-
ing, building, operating, maintaining and recovering the cost of small,
scattered communal projects. The standards, policies and procedures
adopted for Mindoro would have far-reaching implications for the country's
300,000 ha of communal gravity and 150,000 ha of small pump irrigation
systems. Assurances were obtained that before constructing and improving
the communal irrigation systems included in the project, NIA would prepare
a comprehensive plan for their design, construction, operation, maintenance
and cost recovery, and submit the plan to the Bank for review within two
years of loan signing. Agreement on the plan between the Government and the
Bank would be a condition of disbursement for the communal irrigation
systems.
Roads and Calapan Port (US$17.6 million)
4.04      The roads and port program (Annex 4) would include:
(a) construction and improvement of about 150 km of national
highways in Oriental Mindoro;
(b) construction and improvement of about 114 km of provincial roads
in Oriental Mindoro and 166 km in Occident4l Mindoro;
(c) procurement of equipment for the construction, improvement and
maintenance of provincial roads in Occidental Mindoro;
(d) engagement of a highway expert to assist DPH in detailed
engineering and supervision of contruction;



- 11 -
(e) consultant services for feasibility studies and,
if warranted, detailed engineering of the Paluan-San
Jose national highway in Occidental Mindoro and
possible road links between the provinces;
(f) rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing pier and deck at
Calapan port;
(g)  reclamation and surfacing of 4,000 m  of land to provide cargo
storage space; and
(h)  construction of a 600 m  passenger building and concrete landing
stair.
4.05      At the time of appraisal, only preliminary engineering work had
been done on the Calapan-Roxas City national highway (140 km). This was
sufficient to make an economic evaluation of the proposed improvements
and to prepare cost estimates for the whole road except the section between
Calapan and Victoria (34 km), which would be affected by improved drainage
in the area of the Baco-Bucayao irrigation system. Assurances were obtained
that before proceeding with the Calapan-Victoria road works, DPH would update
the feasibility study for this section, and that construction and improvement
of the section would be included in the project only if the Government and
the Bank agree that the works are justified in the light of the study.
Agricultural Program (US$2.3 million)
4.06      The agricultural program (Annex 5) would include:
(a) construction and equipment of a seed testing laboratory
at Calapan and San Jose;
(b) a qualified seed technician to work at each testing
station;
(c) additional pest control officers to work in each province; and
(d) procurement of equipment, vehicles, supplies, rodenticides
and poison baiting huts to carry out a rat control program
on about 90,000 ha of paddy land.
Schistosomiasis Control (US$1.5 million)
4.07      Schistosomiasis is fairly localized at present (para 3.21) and
should therefore be subject to successful control. The lessons learned in
controlling schistosomiasis in Mindoro would be transferable to other parts
of the Philippines (Annex 6). The project would include:



- 12 -
(a) a health education program through the use of posters and a
mobile audio-visual unit;
(b) provision of about 10,000 water-seal toilets;
(c) construction of communal domestic water supplies;
(d) drainage and clearing of 460 ha of swamp land containing snail
colonies and mollusciciding after completion of land modification
work; and
(e) a diagnosis campaign to identify people who have the disease and
treatment for all active cases.
4.08      Although the proposed integrated approach to schistosomiasis control
is sound, details still need to be worked out. Inducements must be provided
for people to request, construct and use the water-seal toilets. A brief
epidemiological survey must be carried out to determine the probable benefit
from having clean water available. If it is determined that safe water
supplies would reduce transmission, then a study would be needed to determine
the best type of water supplies, the number required, location and cost.
Locations, designs and costs of foot bridges must be firmed up. The best
mix of equipment and manual labor, the choice between lined or unlined
drainage channels and the appropriate level of maintenance mollusciciding for
the snail control component all have to be determined. Finally, the diagnosis
and treatment campaign has to be properly phased with the snail control
measures.
4.09      Assurances were obtained that NSCC would revise its proposal for
the schistosomiasis control part of the project. The revised proposal would
cover the points in para 4.08, which are discussed in greater detail in Annex
6, and would include detailed requirements and cost estimates for personnel,
facilities and equipment. All agencies participating in this part of the
project should play an active role in formulating their own activities.
NSCC would then submit the revised proposal through the Project Director
(para 5.01) to the Bank for approval. Agreement on the proposal between
the Government and the Bank would be a condition of disbursement for the
schistosomiasis control part of the project.
Mangyan Assistance (US$0.4 million)
4.10      The project would provide medical services, legal assistance,
initial supplies of agricultural inputs, small tools and equipment to Mangyan
communities (Annex 7). It would include:
(a) establishment of a mobile medical team in each province to
work with the Mangyans;
(b) establishment of field teams in each of four selected Mangyan
communities to provide legal assistance, agricultural inputs
and technical advice; and



- 13 -
(c) construction of low-grade access roads to the four communities.
Implementation
4.11      Construction of the national irrigation systems would begin after
the 1976 rainy season and would be completed in the first half of 1979.
Construction of the communal systems would not start until late 1977 to allow
adequate lead time for data collection, planning and development of staff
experience. All work on the irrigation systems would be completed by June
1980. The hydro-meteorological studies and watershed protection program
would begin in 1976 and continue through June 1980. The road works would
be constructed over four years beginning November 1975 while the port
improvements would be made over three years beginning November 1975 (Chart
9373). The agricultural, schistosomiasis control and Mangyan assistance
programs would be carried out over 4-1/2 years beginning January 1976.
Cost Estimates
4.12      Total project costs are estimated at US$50.0 million, of which
US$10.6 million or 43% is foreign exchange. Cost estimates for the water
control component of the project are based on quantity estimates from
standard NIA designs and unit prices prevailing in the Philippines in
September 1974. Unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies are based
on recent quotations received by NIA. A physical contingency factor of
257 was applied to the cost of the water control component because of the
need for additional engineering and NIA's relative inexperience in working
on Mindoro. The cost estimates for the roads and Calapan port improvements
are based on the latest prices of essential materials and recent bids under
the Second Highway Project (Loan 950-PH). A physical contingency factor of
10% has been added for the roads and 20% for the port improvements. Most
of the national highway and all of the provincial road improvements
generally follow the existing grades and alignments. For the Calapan-
Victoria section of the national highway (para 4.05) and other scattered
small sections, the cost estimates were based on the worst possible conditions.
Therefore the low contingency factor for the roads is adequate.   The cost
estimates for the agricultural program are based on similar ongoing projects
in the Philippines. For the schistosomiasis control program, costs are based
on information provided by NSCC. Cost estimates for Mangyan assistance are
based on PANAMIN estimates. All units costs were updated to January 1975
levels for the base cost estimate. Costs due to expected price increases
assume annual inflation rates of 16% in 1975 falling to 10% in 1980 for
civil works and 12% in 1975 falling to 7% in 1980 for equipment and other
services. Expected price increases amount to about 29% of total project
costs.



- 14 -
4.13      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 8 and are
summarized below:
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Exchange
----Pesos Million----   ----US$ Million------ ---%----
Water Control              42.8   20.7      63.5      6.2    3.0       9.2    33
Roads and Ports            57.9   63.5    121.4       8.4    9.2      17.6    52
Agricultural Program       10.4    5.5      15.9      1.5    0.8       2.3    35
Schistosomiasis Control    6.9    3.5       10.4      1.0    0.5       1.5    33
Mangyan Assistance          2.1    0.7       2.8      0.3    0.1       0.4    25
Base Cost Estimate      120.1   93.9    214.0    17.4   13.6        31.0    44
Physical Contingencies    17.9   11.7       29.6      2.6    1.7       4.3    40
Expected Price Increase   58.0   43.4    101.4        8.4    6.3      14.7    43
Total Project Cost      196.0  149.0    345.0    28.4   21.6        50.0    43
Financing
4.14      The proposed Bank loan of US$25 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs and about 12% of the local costs of the project. It
would cover 50% of total project costs. The Government would provide the
remaining P 172 million (US$25 million) out of annual budget appropriations.
Each implementing agency would maintain a separate account for the project
and would submit all budget requests to the Project Director (para 5.01)
for approval. The Project Director would forward approved requests to the
Commissioner of the Budget, who would disburse all project funds directly
to the implementing agencies in accordance with normal Government procedures,
which are satisfactory to ensure the continuous and timely flow of project
funds.
Procurement
4.15      Each agency would be responsible for its own procurement under the
project, but would submit all documents to the Project Director for inform-
ation. The Project Director would be responsible for maintaining records
of all equipment and services procured under the project. Equipment,
vehicles and supplies costing about US$4.0 million would be procured after
international competitive bidding in accordanice with Bank Group Guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods or the
custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Procurement of off-the-shelf items each costing
less than US$10,000 would be purchased through normal Government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. The total for all such
items would not exceed US$250,000. A detailed list of equipment require-
ments is given in Annex 9.



- 15 -
4.16      Civil works for the national irrigation systems (US$5.2 million)
would be scattered over a wide area and include a large proportion of rehabil-
itation works. These would have to be planned and executed on short notice
to avoid the growing season and bad weather and would have to be phased
with irrigation releases, and would therefore not be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding. When similar works were advertized under the
tUpper Pampanga River Irrigation Project (UPRP) (Loan 637-PH) in Central
Luzon, NIA failed to attract even local contractors.  In order to stimulate
the local contracting industry in Mindoro, however, an assurance was obtained
that NIA would investigate ways of expanding the execution of civil works
by contract, so that the amount of work done by force account on the national
systems would not exceed 40% of the total cost of the work. The balance
would be carried out by contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. The communal irrigation systems (US$0.9 million)
which are smaller and more scattered than the national systems, would be
constructed either by force account or by self-help work by farmers under
NIA supervision.
4.17      Contracts for the civil works on the national highways (US$8.6
million) together with the provincial roads in Oriental Mindoro and the San
Jose district of Occidental Mindoro (US$4.4 million) would be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for procurement.  To attract both foreign and local bidders, contracts
_would be placed on the basis of individual sections or combinations of
sections for the works.  The roads in Mamburao and Sablayan districts of
Occidental Mindoro, which are isolated from major population centers, would
be constructed by force account.  The improvements to Calapan port (US$0.2
million) would be carried out by contract.  Because of the small size of the
works involved, contracts would be awarded on the basis of competitive bid-
ding advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank.  Civil works for other components of the project
(US$2.3 million) would be small and scattered and would not be suitable for,
competitive bidding.  They would be carried out by force account using
-   mostly manual labor.
Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment, 100% against the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment and 65% for imported equipment procured locally.
For services of experts and consultants, disbursements would cover 100% of
the-foreign exchange cost or 60% of total cost. For civil works contractors'
mobilization and imported equipment, disbursements would be at 100% of
foreign exchange cost. Other disbursements for civil works would be at the
rate of 50% of certified monthly progress payments or expenditures. It is
expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30, 1981, approximately
one year after the end of all construction. An estimated schedule of
expenditures on the project, a semi-annual disbursement schedule and the
proposed allocation of the proceeds of the loan are given in Annex 10.



- 16 -
Accounts and Audit
4.19      All agencies involved in project implementation with the exception
of PANAMIN are Government bodies subject to normal government control and
auditing procedures.  PANAMIN is directly responsible to the President of
the Philippines. Its operating arm is a joint Government-private association
for national minorities, the PANAMIN Foundation, Inc. Financial control of
the Foundation is by independent auditors. Assurances were obtained that:
(a) all agencies involved in project implementation would maintain
separate accounts for the project;
(b) all project accounts would be collected by the Project
Director (para 5.01);
(c) the Government's Commisbion on Audit or other auditors
satisfactory to the Bank would be employed to audit these
accounts annually; and
(d) the Project Director would send the audited project
accounts, together with the auditor's comments, to
the Bank within four months of the close of each
financial year.
Supervision
4.20      Due to the complexity of the proposed project, the number of
Government departments and agencies involved and the need for additional
preparation for some components, the Bank's staff requirements for periodic
progress reviews would be higher than those normally incurred.  To ensure
satisfactory implementation, particularly during the early phases of the
project, it is anticipated that on the order of 20 man-weeks per year for
IBRD FY 1976 through FY 1978 would be needed for supervision missions and
report writing, with normal requirements thereafter.
Environmental Effects
4.21      The proposed project would help control endemic schistosomiasis
in the Lake Naujan region of Oriental Mindoro. The project would not
directly affect other health problems on the island including malaria, tuber-
culosis, protein deficiencies and enteric diseases. Rat control would yield
indirect health benefits.  Although the use of zinc phosphide as an acute
rat poison would increase (para 5.13), better control of its application
would actually reduce the risk of accidental posioning. The anti-coagulant
poisons (para 5.13) would not pose a human hazard. Improved agricultural
extension would help minimize the risk of harmful environmental effects
from agrochemicals.



- 17 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Central Project Organization
5.01      Implementation of the project would require coordination between
a number of national line departments and agencies. These are the National
Irrigation Administration (NIA), the Departments of Public Highways (DPH),
Public Health (DH), Local Government and Community Development (DLGCD),
Natural Resources (DNR), Agriculture (DA) and Public Works (DPW) and the
Presidential Assistant on National Minorities (PANAMIN). Responsibility for
coordinating the activities of these organizations and for implementing the
project at the national level would rest with a Project Director. He would
report directly to the Cabinet Coordinating Committee for Rural Development
(CCC) within the National Economic and Development Authority (NEDA). He
would have a small technical and management staff including a monitoring
unit to assess the agro-economic aspects of the project (Chart 9374). The
Government has agreed to employ a qualified and experienced person as Project
Director with powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
5.02      The Project Director would be responsible for approving detailed
annual budgets and work programs for project activities prepared by the
participating departments and agencies. To perform this function, he would
be cliairman of a Steering Committee composed of senior officers from each
of the departments and agencies involved in the project and the two pro-
vincial Governors. The Committee members would be empowered to speak
for their respective organizations as far as the project is concerned.
Assurances were obtained that the Government would establish the Steer-
ing Committee within three months of loan signing, and that each department
and agency would prepare an annual budget and work program for its part
of the project and submit them to the Steering Committee for approval at
least three months in advance of each fiscal year. The Project Director
would forward a copy of the annual budgets and work programs to the Bank
for information as an aid to project supervision.
Provincial Organization
5.03      The senior officer of each line department and agency in the
province would be the project officer for his organization.  Each project
officer would be a member of the Provincial Development Council chaired by
the Governor in each province. The Council would also include a representa-
tive of PNB and the Rural Banks. It would be the counterpart of the nation-
al Steering Committee and would meet as needed to coordinate project
implementation. The Provincial Development Council would resolve problems
of inter-agency coordination at the local level. Intra-agency coordination
would be handled through normal organizational chains of command, through
regional offices to the national headquarters. To resolve major conflicts
which remain after using these avenues, the Governors would have direct
access to the Project Director.



- 18 -
Agency Responsibilities
5.04      NIA would be responsible for the national and communal irrigation
systems and the hydro-meterological studies while the Bureau of Forest
Development, working closely with NIA, would be responsible for the watershed
protection program. An assurance was obtained that NIA would carry out its
part of the project through its newly-created Special Projects Organization,
which is responsible for all externally assisted projects for which NIA is
the executing agency. NIA would strengthen its provincial staff to execute
the project, and would provide engineering, design and planning support
from its central staff in Manila. The Pula and Baco-Bucayao national irrigation
systems would be organized as one irrigation zone under a Superintendent.
There would be five water management divisions, one for Pula (2,000 ha) and
four for Baco-Bucayao (2,500 ha each). A Supervisor would be responsible
for each division, which would be divided into 500 ha blocks, each controlled
by a graduate Water Management Technologist. Each Technologist would control
five ditch tenders, who would each supervise two 50 ha irrigation units.
5.05      DPH would be responsible for national highway improvement and
maintenance. It would prepare detailed designs and final engineering speci-
fications and tender documents, award contracts and supervise construction.
Because of a shortage of qualified provincial engineering staff, DPH would
also be responsible for the design and construction of provincial roads
under the project. However, the provincial Governments would continue to
be responsible for their maintenance. At present, Oriental Mindoro has a
motor equipment pool, equipment and a training program for mechanics and
engineers, set up under the PDAP (para 3.24) to improve its capability to
maintain provincial roads. Occidental Mindoro would receive similar assistance
in conjunction with the proposed project, and would inherit the equipment
and workshop tools procured under the project for force account construction
of provincial roads. It is expected that provincial capabilities to maintain
roads would improve to satisfactory levels. An assurance was obtained
that the provincial Governments would provide adequate staff, facilities
and funds to maintain and repair the provincial roads for which they are
responsible. The Ports and Harbors Division of DPW would be responsible
for the improvements to and maintenance of Calapan Port.
5.06      DH would have primary responsibility for the schistosomiasis control
program, and would operate through its regional schistosomiasis control team
at Victoria, Oriental Mindoro. Close coordination w,ith other agencies would
be necessary for successful implementation. These include the Department
of Education for the health education campaign, DPW for water supply con-
struction and land modifcation work and DLGCD for construction of small
foot bridges.
5.07      PANAMIN  would be responsible for Mangyan activities.  It would
establish a mobile medical team in each province to work with the Mangyans
and would encourage and arrange visits of voluntary medical assistance to
work with the regular teams. It would also assign a field officer to live
in each of four selected communities to coordinate legal and agricultural



- 19 -
assistance. The field officers would maintain close contact with other
Government services, especially DLGCD, and with religious groups working with
the Mangyans.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.08      Agricultural Development Coordinating Councils (ADCC) have been
set up in the UPRP areas to coordinate the work of the various agencies pro-
viding agricultural services to the farmers (Annex 5). The Councils are still
new but appear to be working well and similar coordinating arrangements would
be made for Mindoro. An assurance was obtained that the Government would set
up an ADCC in each Mindoro province. The two ADCC's would have some members
in common since both provinces are in the Southern Tagalog administrative
region.
5.09      The Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE), Bureau of Plant Indus-
try (BPI) and DAR all provide extension services on Mindoro. Under the
Masagana 99 program a total of 50 graduate agricultural technicians was
working in Oriental Mindoro and 40 in Occidental Mindoro in June 1974. This
represents a ratio of one extension worker to about 600 rice and corn
farmers in Oriental Mindoro and one to 300 in Occidental Mindoro. To deal
with the requirements of the land reform program and improved cultural
practices, the extension staff would be increased so that by 1980 there
would be one technician to about 300 rice farmers in both provinces. Assur-
ances were obtained that the necessary agricultural extension personnel would
be provided. In addition, 24 Water Management Technologists (para 5.04)
would supplement the extension staff in the national irrigation system
areas of Oriental Mindoro.
5.10      As part of the agrarian reform, the Government is promoting the
formation of pre-cooperative farmers' organizations based on the barrio. The
organizations, usually numbering 20-25 farmers, serve as channels for the
inflow of technical services, credit and inputs and as assembly points for
produce intended for market. Extension agents would visit each organization
on an average of once every two weeks. Each organization would appoint a
"tprogressive farmer" to assist the technicians and maintain contact with the
farmers between visits.
5.11      Current fertilizer consumption on the island amounts to about
16,000 tons per year, of which two-thirds is ammonium phosphate. At full
development the island would consume some 25,000 tolns of fertilizer (Annex
5). The two Mindoro provinces have been declared priority areas for food
crop production and there should be no difficulty in getting sufficient
supplies to the island. Existing supply channels could handle the increased
demand without difficulty. Poor transportation facilities have hindered
the distribution of inputs up to now, uu. tL,I' protlcm would be alleviated
by the proposed road and port improvements under the project.
5.12      The certified rice seed requirement at full development would total
about 750 tons per year. The project would assist the production of certified



20 -
seed in each province to supply this amount, plus a surplus of about 400 tons
in Occidental Mindoro for shipment to Luzon. BPI would supervise production
by small cooperating growers on about 200 ha near Naujan in Oriental Mindoro,
and by the National Industrial Development Corporation rice estate near San
Jose in Occidental Mindoro. The project would strengthen technical supervi-
sion, set up seed testing laboratories in each province and supply certified
seed to farmers under supervised credit (Annex 5).
5.13      Rats cause widespread damage to paddy, upland crops and coconuts
on Mindoro at present. BPI has been carrying out massive baiting at harvest
time using zinc phosphide as the acute poison on about 10,000 ha of paddy
in Oriental Mindoro and 5,000 ha in Occidental Mindoro. Sustained baiting
with chronic anti-coagulant poisons has been carried out with German technical
assistance on pilot areas covering some 3,000 ha. The pilot areas have demon-
strated dramatic decreases in tiller damage and increases in yield. The pro-
ject would cover the whole paddy area of about 90,000 ha within five years.
It would provide a pest control technician in each municipality, chronic
and acute rat poisons and baiting huts. The pest control technician would
store and control the poisons. The extension agents would distribute the
poisons to the farmers' organizations on their bi-weekly visits. Progressive
farmers in conjunction with the barrio captains would mix and distribute
poison baits. The farmers would supply the baits, mainly rice brokens.
Because this would be the first time chronic rat poisons are used on a mas-
sive scale in the Philippines, baiting huts and poisons would be provided
free of charge initially to encourage universal participation. Once the
farmers see the benefits which can result from such a cooperative effort,
however, they should be willing to pay for the rodenticides, and the prog-
ram should be become self-supporting. An assurance was obtained that within
two years of loan signing, the Government would submit to the Bank a proposal
for recovering the cost of rodenticides from farmers.
5.14      Under the agrarian reform and Masagana programs the Government has
strengthened the credit institutions and facilitated credit to small farmers,
previously dependent on the landlords for their requirements. A system of
"tsupervised credit" is used which includes the provision of technical services
to the borrower to ensure that recommended practices, such as variety,
fertilizer and agrochemical inputs, are adopted. Under the system no colla-
teral is required. At full project development, the institutional credit
requirement to cover all of the improved irrigated areas and 35% of the
unimproved irrigated and rainfed areas is estimated at about P 30.0 million
(US$4.3 million) in Oriental Mindoro and P 19.8 million (US$2.9 million) in
Occidental Mindoro. The existing credit institutions, primarily PNB and
the Rural Banks, would be able to meet the requirement.
Monitoring Benefits
5.15      A monitoring unit would be set up in the office of the Project
Director. It would be responsible for monitoring such aspects of the
project's progress as: deployment of extension and water management personnel,
pace of land reform, cropping patterns, use of inputs and credit, incidence
of pests and diseases, crop yie!Js and farm incomes.



- 21 -
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance
5.16      Provision has been made for consultants to assist NIA in carrying
out hydro-meteorological studies to improve the data base for planning future
development of Mindoro's water resources, and to carry out feasibility
studies and, if warranted, detailed engineering of a national highway in
Occidental Mindoro from Paluan to San Jose with possible road links to
Oriental Mindoro. An assurance was obtained that within six months of loan
signing DPH would engage consultants acceptable to the Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the studies and detailed
engineering.
5.17      One highway expert would be provided to assist Region IV of DPH
in the detailed engineering and supervision of construction of the national
highway and provincial roads included in the project. Assurances were
obtained that DPH would employ within six months of loan signing a highway
expert acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
Water Charges
5.18      Republic Act No. 3601 establishing NIA gave it the authority to
"collect from the users of each irrigation system constructed by it such fees
as may be necessary to finance the continuous operation of the system and
reimburse within a period of not less than twenty-five years the cost of con-
struction thereof." NIA's record of irrigation fee collection has shown a
steady improvement over the last five years. The total collection has risen
from P 4.8 million in FY69 to P 7.9 million in FY73. Over the same period .
the collection rate as a percentage of fees charged has increased from 53% to
65%. The better recovery is attributed to improved and more timely billing,
the use of more collectors, rehabilitation of some of the irrigation systems,
withholding of water from delinquents and incentive collection bonuses.
5.19      Irrigation fees on the national irrigation schemes are now levied
at the rate of P 25/ha for wet season rice and P 35/ha for dry season rice.
The NIA Board approved an increase in fees equivalent to two cavans of paddy
per ha in the wet season and three cavans in the dry season, to be applied
uniformly to all national irrigation systems. At the existing Government
support price for paddy of P 50/cavan (P 1.0/kg) the new fees would be equal
to P 100/ha and P 150/ha, respectively. The O&M costs of the improved
national irrigation systems are estimated to be P 100/ha/annum (US$14.5). The
rates proposed by NIA would cover O&M costs, but would contribute little
toward capital cost recovery.
5.20      As an exception to the uniform rate policy, the Government has
agreed to raise water rates on the UPRP,' Aurora-Penaranda (Loan/Credit 984/
472-PH) and Tarlac (Loan 1080-PH) project areas at full development to the
equivalent of 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha'in the wet season and 4.4 cavans/ha in
the. dry season. Since the Pula and Baco-Bucayao national irrigation systems
would be improved, operated and maintained to the same standards, water



- 22 -
charges for these systems would be the same. This would be equivalent to
P 395 per year at the current support price with 200% cropping intensity,
to be reached gradually over a period of five years from completion of
construction. Such a rate would be within the farmers' repayment capacities
and yet permit NIA to recover a substantial amount of the investment in the
project. At a discount rate of 10% the present value of such a charge over
the 50-year life of the project would be P 34 million. The present value
of the project cost 1/ plus O&M costs at 10% is P 53 million, indicating a
recovery ratio of about 64%.
5.21      NIA would include proposals for water charges on the improved
communal irrigation systems as part of its comprehensive plan for such
systems to be submitted to the Bank (para 4.03). To ensure sound operation
and maintenance practices and an equitable contribution by the beneficiaries
toward recovery of the capital cost of the national systems, assurances
were obtained that:
(a) NIA would make adequate annual budgetary provisions to
supply the funds necessary for operation and maintenance
of the Pula and Baco-Bucayao national irrigation systems;
(b)  irrigation fees would be levied to provide NIA with
sufficient funds to maintain and operate the Pula and
Baco-Bucayao national irrigation systems and to allow
for the recovery of investment costs within not more
than 50 years, taking into account farmers' incentives
and capacity to pay. A gradual increase in irrigation
fees over a period of five years from completion of
construction to a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans
of paddy per ha in the wet season and 4.4 cavans in the
dry season would meet the requirement; and
(c) NIA would take all necessary actions to ensure full and
prompt collection of the irrigation fees on the national
irrigation systems.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
6.01      Paddy is by far the most important crop on Mindoro.  Most agri-
cultural activities under the project would therefore be directed towards
increasing paddy production and the incomes of poor paddy farmers. Produc-
tion and farm incomes have been calculated for paddy only, although there
1/   Cost of investments for the Pula and Baco-Bucayao national irrigation
systems including force account equipment and excluding costs due to
expected price increases of P 56.5 million. Both costs and revenues
are evaluated at constant 1975 prices.



- 23 -
would also be improvements in upland rice, corn and coconut producing
areas due to the improved transportation facilities, agricultural supporting
services and rat control provided by the project.
Production
6.02      Better water control, improved agricultural extension services,
better transportation and expanded supervised credit would encourage increased
planting of high yielding rice varieties, heavier fertilizer applications
and greater use of crop protection chemicals, particularly rodenticides.
The use of machinery for land preparation and threshing would increase to
meet more exacting cropping calendars. It is expected that at full agri-
cultural development, assumed to be reached five years after the various
project improvements, about half of all threshing would be mechanized
and farmers would use a combination of machinery and animal-drawn imple-
ments for land preparation. At full development, paddy yields on the two
national irrigation systems (12,000 ha) would average 3.7 and 4.1 ton/ha
for the wet and dry season crops, respectively. Cropping intensity would
increase from 180% to 200%. On the improved communal irrigation systems
(3,000 ha), yields for the wet and dry season crops would average 3.3 and
3.5 ton/ha respectively, while the cropping intensity would increase from
167% to 200%.
6.03      The unimproved communal irrigation systems and rainfed areas
(75,000 ha) would receive improved inputs, extension and rat control. About
35% of the areas would be covered by supervised credit. Average cropping
intensity would remain at 150%, with almost all dry season cropping in
Oriental Mindoro. Yields at full development are assumed to be 2.6 and 2.8
ton/ha for wet and dry season crops, respectively, in irrigated areas,
and 1.6 and 1.9 ton/ha for the two seasons in rainfed areas. These yields
are assumed to be reached five years after the introduction of the proposed
improvements.
6.04      Yield assumptions with the project are based on current yields on
Mindoro in areas covered by the Masagana 99 program (para 3.11). Future
yields without the project assume a 1% average annual increase from 1975 to
1985. Total paddy production from the island would be about 340,000 tons
at full development, compared with 235,000 tons at present and an estimated
255,000 tons in future without the project. Details of present and future
yields and production are given in Annex 11.
Market Prospects
6.05      One of the main goals of Government policy is to attain self-
sufficiency in basic foods, especially rice and corn. Annual rice imports
have ranged around 300-350,000 tons in recent years. Mindoro has been
declared among some 40 priority provinces for food grain production. More
than half the island's annual paddy production is now exported to Luzon and
Manila. It is expected that this pattern will continue and that the
incremental paddy production from the project would go to feed rice deficit



- 24 -
areas as well as the increasing population on the island. With annual per
capita rice consumption of 100 kg, the incremental annual production from
Mindoro would feed more than half a million people.
Prices
6.06      The Bank forecasts the world market price of average quality Thai
rice to fall from US$435/ton fob Bangkok in 1975 to around US$210/ton (at
constant 1975 prices) in 1985. Although the implied deterioration in the
terms of trade for agriculture has been taken into account in the economic
analysis, it is expected that the financial impact as reflected in the farm
budget analysis would be different. The paddy farm gate price equivalent
to a 1975 world market price for rice of US$435/ton is P 2,000 (US$290)/ton.
Because of Government policy to keep the price of food to consumers low,
however, the actual farm gate price of paddy is held at the official support
price of P 1,000/ton by selling imported rice below cost. At the same time,
the Government subsidizes fertilizers used to grow food crops for domestic
consumption. The November 1974 farm gate price of urea for food crops, for
example, was P 2,300/ton, while the world market equivalent farm gate price
was P 2,800/ton. Thus the Government compensates farmers to some extent for
the low domestic price of rice. At full development it is assumed that
economic and financial prices for inputs and outputs will coincide at the
Bank's lower forecast world market prices (at 1975 constant prices). For
example, the farm gate price of paddy is forecast to be about P 1,000/ton
and of urea, P 1,400/ton (Annex 12).
Farm Incomes
6.07      Farm models have been prepared for three different levels of
agricultural improvements in Oriental Mindoro and two levels in Occidental
Mindoro. The estimated present incomes and those projected at full develop-
ment are presented in Annex 11 and summarized below:



-25-
Farm      Farm         Farm Income /a
Area                      Type      Size      Present      Future
(ha)      ------(US$)---
Oriental Mindoro
Improved national           Rainfed      2.0          420          -
irrigation systems          Irrigated    2.0          860       1,440
Improved communal           Rainfed      2.0          420          -
irrigation systems          Irrigated    2.0          670       1,160
Unimproved communal         Rainfed       2.0         420          540
systems & rainfed areas    Irrigated    2.0           670         930
Occidental Mindoro
Improved communal           Rainfed      5.0          430          -
irrigation systems          Irrigated    3.0          800       1,580
Unimproved communal         Rainfed      5.0          430         650
systems & rainfed areas    Irrigated    3.0           800       1,130
/a   Rounded to nearest US$10.
6.08      Taking the typical 2.0 ha farm for Oriental Mindoro, present
incomes vary between US$420 on rainfed farms and US$860 on farms in the
national irrigation systems, or about 30-60% of the current per capita
GNP of around US$240. The greatest relative gains with the project
would be made by farmers currently in rainfed areas whose farms would
be incorporated into the expanded national irrigation systems. Their
family incomes would rise from US$420 to US$1,440 per year. The greatest
number of farmers are found in the rainfed areas which would not receive
improved water control. Their family incomes would rise from US$420
to US$540. Farmers served by the communal irrigation systems would
fall between these extremes.
6.09      Typical farms in Occidental Mindoro cover 3.0 ha in areas irrigated
by communal systems and 5.0 ha in rainfed areas. Although the average farm
size is larger than in Oriental Mindoro, there is little difference in
present incomes between the two provinces. This is because rainfall in
Occidental is less evenly distributed over the year, leading to lower
cropping intensities; because irrigation and infrastructure facilities are
less developed; and because farmers must spend more cash for hired labor
on their larger holdings, particularly the 5.0 ha rainfed farms due to
seasonal peaks in labor demand. Therefore the current net farm income of
a farmer on 5.0 ha of rainfed land in Occidental Mindoro is practically the
same as that of a farmer on 2.0 ha of rainfed land in Oriental Mindoro.



- 26 -
With the project at full development, incomes would rise to US$650 on 5.0
ha rainfed farms, US$1,130 on 3.0 ha irrigated farms without improved
water control, and US$1,580 on 3.0 ha farms in the 1,000 ha of improved
communal irrigation systems. Even this last category represents a per
capita income of only US$265 per year, or 80% of projected per capita GNP
in 1985 of around US$325.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The irrigation and agricultural production aspects of the project
would benefit directly some 30,000 paddy farmers representing a total of
about 200,000 people or 40% of the island's population. The project would
increase yields and production through better water control and drainage on
15,000 ha and agricultural inputs, supporting services and rat control to
serve the entire paddy producing area of 90,000 ha. it would also create
the equivalent of some 13,000 seasonal agricultural jobs by 1985. In
addition, the project would benefit an even larger number of people through
improvements to the national highways, provincial roads and Calapan Port,
and the schistosomiasis control and Mangyan assistance programs. The com-
munal irrigation systems, watershed protection, rat control and schistoso-
miasis control programs would be pioneering efforts to provide experience
for future programs elsewhere in the Philippines, as well as benefiting
rural Mindoro.
7.02      The Calapan-Roxas City national highway is the main spinal road
serving Oriental Mindoro. Present traffic volumes of between 900 and 250
vehicles per day on various sections are predicted to increase at rates of
5-8% per year to between 3,400 and 1,000 vehicles per day in 1994. The
project would reduce the present high road transportation costs in Oriental
Mindoro by upgrading the existing road. It is expected that competition
in the private transport industry would distribute the benefits widely
to farmers in Mindoro through increased farm gate prices for agricultural
outputs and reduced prices for imports. Assuming a 20 year evaluation period,
the economic rate of return would be 18-% with passenger time cost savings
and 14% without time savings.
7.03      In evaluating the agricultural production aspects of the project,
the costs of the provincial roads and agricultural program were included
in project costs, prorated by the areas served. Assuming a 50 year evalua-
tion period for the national irrigation system and a 30 year period for the
communal irrigation systems and rainfed areas, farm gate prices for rice
and fertilizers based on the Bank's commodity price forecasts for 1985 and
a market wage rate for farm labor of P 6/man-day, the economic rates of
return would be about 24% for the national irrigation systems, 25% for the
improved communal irrigation systems and 15% for the unimproved communal
irrigation systems and rainfed areas.



- 27 -
7.04      The rates of return show little sensitivity to the estimates of
project costs or the assumptions made concerning the level and timing of
agricultural benefits in the improved irrigated areas. They show most
sensitivity to the level and timing of benefits on the 75,000 ha which would
not receive improved irrigation, emphasizing the importance of an effective
agricultural extension service and the timely availability of adequate farm
inputs. In none of the cases tested, however, would the rate of return
fall below 10%. On the other hand, if the farm gate price of rice turns
out to be 25% higher than forecast, the rates of return would range from 18%
to 30% for the various irrigation and agricultural improvements.
7.05      At full agricultural development, rice import savings due to the
project would amount to US$13.7 million per year at the forecast world
market price cif Manila (in terms of constant 1975 prices) of US$255/ton.
After deducting the incremental cost of imported fertilizers and chemicals,
the net foreign exchange savings would amount to about US$11.2 million per
year.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a) before constructing and improving the communal irriga-
tion systems, NIA would prepare a comprehensive plan
for their design, construction, operation, maintenance
and cost recovery, and submit the plan to the Bank
for approval within two years of loan signing (para 4.03);
(b) NSCC would revise its proposal for the schistosomiasis control
part of the project and submit the revised proposal through
the Project Director to the Bank for approval (para 4.09);
(c) it would employ a qualified and experienced person as
Project Director with powers and responsibilitie
satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.01);
(d) it would establish within three months of loan signing and
thereafter maintain in existence a Steering Committee with
the Project Director as chairman and the two Provincial
Governors and senior officers from each of the implementing
agencies as members (para 5.02);
(e) within two years of loan signing, it would submit to the
Bank a proposal for recovering the cost of rodenticides
from farmers (para 5.13); and



- 23 -
(f) NIA would make adequate annual budgetary provisions for
operation and maintenance of the national irrigation
systems improved under the project; would take all
necessary action to ensure full and prompt collection
of irrigation fees on the national irrigation systems;
and would gradually increase the level of fees on the
Pula and Baco-Bucayao national irrigation systems over a
period of five years from completion of construction to
a level equivalent to about 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha in
the wet season and 4.4 cavans/ha in the dry season (para
5.21).
8.02      Conditions of disbursement for the communal irrigation systems
and schistosomiasis control program would be that the Government and the
Bank had agreed on specific plans to carry out those parts of the project
(paras 4.03 and 4.09).
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0
million, with a 25 year maturity and a grace period of seven years.  The
borrower would be the Republic of the Philippines.



PHILIPPINES
IIRAL DEVTELOW4ENT PROJECT
Climatic Data
Jan    Feb    Mar    Apr    May    Jun    Jul    A         Se     Oct    Nov    Dec   Total
Calapan, Oriental Mindoro
Weather Bureau
Rainfall (mm) Maximum       462    192    246    222    468    350    522    475    487    623    975    591   2,590
(1950-1972)   Average       112     61     60      90    182    189    207    209    170    270    247    201   1,994
Minimum       24      16      3      13     22     60      22     26      32    106     43      53   1,045
Average No.of Rainy Days    18      12      l0o    10      13     17     16      18     16      18     19     21
(1951-1970)
Mean Temperature (0C)
(1951-1970)                25.4   25.8   26.8   28.1   28.4   28.0   27.4   27.4   27.4   27.0   26.0   25.8    27.0
-Relative Humidity (%)
(1951-1970)                  82     79      77     76     77      81     83      84     84      83     83     84       81
San Jose, Occidental Mindoro
Salt Industry (1967-1973)
Rainfall (mm) Maximum        23     30      38     13    538    810    826    930    465    488    211    124   3,259
Average        6       8      8      2    170    381    560    559    296    210    123         41   2,364
Minimum         -      -      -       -     30    155    345      51      84     13      36      -   2,070
Private Estate (1967-1973)
Average Rainfall (mm)        35     10      17      9    112    352    627    560    286    230    112         50   2,398
Average No. of Rainy Days    1       1       1      2       9     15     19      18     16      11      6       3
Number of Typhoons in
Southern Luzon, Visayas
and Mindoro (1946-1972)       3      1       1      2      5       4      6       1      1      12     15      11      62



ANNEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Tenure and Reform
Background
1.        The Government has long been committed to a program of land reform
centering around the problems of widespread sharecropping, and following the
declaration of martial law in 1972, has pursued a vigorous program of agra-
rian reform aimed at the rapid transfer of land ownership to tenant farmers
on rice and corn lands. Presidential Decree No. 27, the basic legislation
of the new program, provides for the immediate transfer to the tenant,
whether sharecropper or leaseholder, of the land he tills up to 3 ha in
an irrigated area and 5 ha in a rainfed area. The landlord may retain up
to 7 ha if he tills the land himself. Since there are some 2 million rice
and corn farmers on about 4 million ha, of which less than 1 million ha are
irrigated, there is little prospect of achieving the 5 ha rainfed and 3 ha
irrigated family farms nationwide. Furthermore, some 80% of the landlords
have holdings of less than the 7 ha retention limit.
2.        By the end of November 1974, the Department of Agrarian Reform
(DAR) had issued Certificates of Land Transfer to about 189,000 out of
323,000 tenants on holdings of 24 ha and above. On November 16, 1974,
President Marcos issued decrees to carry out the reform in the 7 to 24 ha
farm size range. This may be difficult due to growing resistance from
medium size land owners as the size of holding affected by the reform is
reduced and the number of owners, increased. Nevertheless, when imple-
mentation down to the 7 ha level is completed, about 684,000 (63%) of the
tenants, 37,800 (17%) of the owners and over 1 million ha (76% of the
tenanted rice and corn land) will have been covered. Implementation below
the 7 ha level would be difficult and the benefits less obvious. Pending
the issue of Certificates of Land Transfer to all tenants on holdings over
7 ha, evictions are forbidden and sharecropping has been declared illegal
and is being replaced by leasehold tenure.
Situation on Mindoro
3.        The rice area in the two Mindoro provinces amounts to 100,000 ha and
the corn area to 23,000 ha. The distribution between provinces is as follows:
Area subject to Land Reform
(ha)
Province             Rice      Corn            Total
Oriental             55,000    12,000          67,000
Occidental           45,000    11,000          56,000
Totol            100,000    23,000         123,000



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        A DAR survey in September 1974 showed that there were 19,000 owner-
operators and 24,000 tenant farmers on the 123,000 ha of corn and rice lands
in the island. There were considerable variations in tenure pattern and size
of farm between the two provinces as can be seen from the following table:
Oriental Mindoro                    Occidental Mindoro
Avg.                              Avg.
Farmers       Area       Size    Farmers          Area      Size
Tenure        No.      %    Ha       %   Ha    No.       %    Ha       %    Ha
Owner-Operator 16,741   54  53,107  79  3.2   2,566   21  11,312   20   4.4
Tenant          14,261   46  13,893  21  1.0   9,654   79  44,688   80   4.6
Total         31,002  100  67,000 100  2.2  12,220  100  56,000  100   4.6
5.        In Oriental Mindoro some 14,000 ha of rice and corn lands, the
property of 3,800 land owners, were worked by about 14,000 tenant farmers.
Owners of holdings of 7 ha and over represented only 12% of the landlords
but occupied 42% of the land and employed 40% of the tenant farmers. The
land ownership pattern by size of holding in tenanted rice and corn lands
in Oriental Mindoro in September 1974 before implementation of the agrarian
reform down to 7 ha, was as follows:
Size of Holding        Owners              Area Owned            Tenants
(ha)         No.         Z        ha            %       No.        Z
Less than 7       3,365       88     8,108          58      8,548       60
7-24          440       11      4,164          30     4,631       32
More than 24         26        1      1,621          12     1,082        8
Total          3,831      100    13,893         100    14,261       100
6.        In Occidental Mindoro some 45,000 ha of rice and corn lands were
owned by about 5,700 proprietors and worked by 9,600 tenants.  Owners of
holdings of 7 ha or more amounted to 30% of the proprietors, but occupied
73% of the land and employed 63% of the tenant farmers. The land owner-
ship pattern by size of holding in tenanted rice 'and corn lands in Occidental
Mindoro in September 1974 was as follows:
Size of Holdings       Owners            Area Owned           Tenants
(ha)         No.         %      ha            %     No. *
Less than 7       4,022       70   12,194         27    3,534        37
7-24         1,650      29   15,469          35    2,753       29
More than 24         80        1   17,025         38    3,367        34
Total          5,752      100   44,688        100    9,654      100



A14NEX 2
Page 3
7.         As in the rest of the country, the DAR in Mindoro plans to issue
land transfer certificates to all rice and corn tenants on holdings of 7 ha
and over. In Oriental Mindoro this would mean the transfer of about 5,800
ha, equivalent to 40% of the tenanted area, to some 5,700 tenant cultivators.
In Occidental Mindoro 32,500 ha, equivalent to 73% of the tenanted area,
would be transferred to 6,100 tenant farmers. The attainment of this stage
of agrarian reform in Mindoro would result in some 103,000 ha, or 84% of the
island's rice and corn lands, being cultivated by 31,000 owner-operators,
equivalent to 72% of the farmers. However some 20,000 ha farmed by about
12,000 farmers would remain under some form of leasehold. There is not
likely to be any change in the size of farm operating units in Oriental
Mindoro, though in Occidental it is likely that farms will become smaller
as population increases.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Control
Irrigation
1.        National Irrigation Systems.  The Pula and Baco-Bucayao river
irrigation systems, now serving about 10,000 ha, were built by the National
Irrigation Administration (NIA) in 1960 and 1971, respectively. The Pula
System serves some 2,000 ha of rice land at a cropping intensity of 196%.
The main canal and many of the laterals of the 8,000 ha Baco-Bucayao system
were severely damaged by floods in 1973 during the first year of operation.
The damage to the conveyance structures has greatly reduced the capability
of the system. Both systems would be improved by repairing canals and
structures, constructing additional sub-laterals, farm ditches, turnouts,
drains and associated works. New irrigation works would be constructed
to serve extension areas of about 2,000 ha, of which 300 ha would be added
to Pula and 1,700 ha to Baco-Bucayao.
2.        The improved systems would include additional canal structures such
as checks, control structures and turnouts to more effectively regulate water
deliveries and to provide water more efficiently to each field as required.
Constant head orifice turnouts to sub-laterals would be provided for water
deliveries to rotational areas of about 50 ha. Turnouts would be provided for
each 10 ha unit from which farm ditches, constructed as part of the project,
would convey water directly to most farms. A few holdings would still receive
water through their neighbors' fields. Flood protection works would be con-
structed on the Baco-Bucayao system to prevent a recurrence of the 1973
damage. Some 100 km of service roads would be rehabilitated or constructed
in the two systems. Working stations for Water Management Technologists
would be provided for each 500 ha of irrigated land.
3.        Communal Irrigation Systems, Oriental Mindoro.  Under the project
NIA would reconstruct and extend a number of communal irrigation systems
covering about 2,000 ha. The Mayabig, Tiguisan and Calamundingan systems
currently servicing about 500 ha of rice land would be improved and ex-
panded to serve some 1,400 ha. In addition to these three identified sys-
tems the project would develop a further 600 ha for a total of 2,000 ha.
4.        The existing communal systems divert water from the rivers by
temporary weirs which are frequently damaged or destroyed by floods.
Structures are rudimentary and canal alignment is often incorrect with the
result that only small areas are adequately commanded. Under the project



ANNEX 3
Page 2
NIA would design and build permanent diversion works and improve and extend
the areas served. The project would allow NIA to work out a methodology for
planning and building small scattered communal projects, as well as evolving
acceptable standards of irrigation facilities, operation and maintenance
procedures and a cost recovery policy for such systems.
5.        Communal Irrigation Systems, Occidental Mindoro.  Some 1,000 ha
of communal systems would be improved or developed in Occidental Mindoro
by NIA. About 500 ha suitable for pump irrigation have been identified
along the Mamburao river. Under the project NIA would prepare plans and
estimates for communal projects up to a total of 1,000 ha. The plans would
be subject to review by the Bank.
6.        Water Supply, Demand and Quality.  The two national systems get
their water from the Bucayao and Pula rivers. Stream flow records on both
rivers are available for a 12 year period. Water requirements for the
project were based on two rice crops per year. Taking into account the
higher farm irrigation efficiencies expected after project development,
anticipated conveyance and percolation losses and effective rainfall,
annual diversion requirements are estimated to total 2.7 m, of which 1.5 m
would be for the first crop and 1.2 m for the second.
7.        A comparison of the river discharge records with the average
monthly irrigation requirements shows that the estimated flow of both
rivers would supply full irrigation requirements for 2,300 ha at Pula
and up to 10,000 ha at Baco-Bucayao. Cropping intensities would be 200%
for both systems. Hydrological records for the communal systems are scanty.
Water quality information is limited, but irrigation has been practiced in
both provinces for up to 10 years without evidence of harmful effects.
8.        Implementation.  NIA would carry out its part of the project
through its newly created Special Projects Organization, and would strengthen
the existing provincial staff to deal with execution of the project. Design
and planning functions would be provided by NIA's central staff in Manila.
Improvement and extension of the national systems would be put out to con-
tract and force account work would be limited to not more than 40% of the
total cost of the work. Construction of the communal systems would be
either by force account or by self-help work by farmers under NIA super-
vision. Construction of the national systems would begin after the 1976
rainy season and would be completed in the first half of 1979. Construction
of the communal systems would not start until late 1q77 to allow adequate
lead time for data collection, planning and development of staff experience.
All work would be completed by June 1980 (Chart 9373).
Hydro-Meteorological Studies
9.        The project would provide for the establishment of 22 stream gauging
stations on Mindoro island, together with five recording rainfall stations
and six evaporation stations. Provision would be made for part-time consultant
assistance for a total of 12 man-months in siting and rating the gauges. The



ANNEX 3
Page 3
information obtained from establishing a hydro-meteorological network would
provide a sound basis on which to plan future development of the island's
water resources.
Watershed Protection
10.       The watersheds of the Baco, Pula and Magasawang-Tubig rivers in
Oriental Mindoro and the Mamburao river in Occidental Mindoro would be surveyed
by the Bureau of Forest Development and declared protected watersheds under
the Forestry Reform Code of 1974. The Baco and Pula watersheds provide water
to the two national irrigation systems. The Magasawang-Tubig watershed pro-
vides water to the two national systems and to a number of communal systems
between Calapan and Victoria. The Mamburao watershed is the source of water
for the proposed communal pumping schemes.
11.       Each watershed would be managed by a watershed protection officer
who would supervise a team of forest rangers. Nurseries would be established
in the Baco, Pula and Mamburao watersheds and 50 ha reforestation trials would
be undertaken in each watershed. The trials would provide information on growth
rates and establishment costs for future watershed development.
Costs
12.       The proposed water control measures are estimated to cost a total
of US$15.9 million, including physical contingencies and costs due to expected
price increases, of which US$4.8 million would be foreign exchange. The cost
of rehabilitation and new construction is about US$680/ha for the national
gravity irrigation systems, US$400/ha for the communal gravity systems and
US$700/ha for the communal pump systems, including the cost of force account
equipment, engineering supervision and physical contingencies.  Details of
the estimate are given in Annex 8 and a list of equipment to be purchased is
shown in Annex 9.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads and Calapan Port
A. Roads
Background
1.        The two Mindoro provinces are not connected by road and the net-
works that exist are far from satisfactory. Trails connecting the two
provinces can be negotiated only by jeep during the dry season. Oriental
Mindoro has a national highway running north and south along the coast
which is passable most of the year except during the worst parts of the
rainy season. The province also has a fair distribution of provincial and
barrio (village) roads, but they are constructed to low standard, are barely
maintained and have temporary bridges in varying stages of disrepair. The
road network in Occidental Mindoro is worse. Seven large rivers dissect
the province, and although they can be forded during the dry season, little
traffic moves between the northern, central and southern parts of the prov-
ince because of the unstable condition of the connecting roads.
National Highways
2.        The national thighways included in the proposed project are the
Calapan-Baco road (about 10 km) running southwest from Calapan to Baco and
the Calapan-Roxas City road (about 140 km) running south from Calapan to the
coastal town of Roxas City, both in Oriental Mindoro (Map 11159).
3.        Preparation.  The Department of Public Highways (DPH) is responsi-
ble for the design, construction and maintenance of all national highways.
The project was prepared by Region IV of DPH with assistance from FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program (CP) missions in September 1973 and March 1974. Prep-
aration consisted of economic and technical feasibility studies including
sufficient preliminary engineering to produce satisfactory cost estimates
except for a section of the Calapan-Roxas City national highway between
Calapan and Victoria. Because of the difficult engineering problems on
this section, further work is required before reliable estimates can be
made. However, an amount which is not expected to be exceeded has been
included in the cost estimates to take into account the worst possible
conditions. Detailed engineering and preparation of contract documents
would also be undertaken by Region IV of DPH.
4.        The road section between Calapan and Victoria (34 km) would be
affected by improved drainage in the area of the Baco-Bucayao irrigation



ANNEX 4
Page 2
system. Detailed engineering and reconstruction of this section would be
carried out in conjunction with the water control works in the vicinity.
Before proceeding with the road works, DPH would update the feasibility
study for this section and submit its findings to the Bank for approval.
5.        The proposed design standards are shown in Table 1.  They follow
the standards adopted by DPH after two UNDP-financed studies: Transport
Survey (1968-70) by consultants, Metra/Sauti (France/Italy) and Road
Feasibility Studies (1971-72) by consultants, Norconsult (Norway). The
national highways would be built to Class 2 standards with a 6.10 m pave-
ment width (2 lanes) and double bituminous surface dressing.
6.        Execution.  Region IV of DPH would be responsible for the execu-
tion of the works through its roads sub-project office in Oriental Mindoro. The
The construction and improvement works of the national highways would be
carried out by contracts and would be supervised by DPH staff.
Provincial Roads
7.        The provincial roads scheduled for construction and improvement
are listed in Table 2. They were selected on the basis of estimated daily
traffic after the improvements have been made. About 114 km in Oriental
and 166 km in Occidental Mindoro are scheduled for construction and im-
provement.
8.        The provincial Government is normally responsible for the design,
construction and maintenance of provincial roads. Each province has a Pro-
vincial Engineer and staff who prepared the proposed road program with tech-*
nical assistance from Region IV of DPH. The FAO/IBRD CP missions helped to
identify the roads and xetermine priorities. The cost estimates were based
on reconnaissance surveys only but are adequate because the roads would be
of low standard without major changes of alignment. The roads would all
have single lanes 3.5 m wide with 1 m shoulders and a crushed gravel sur-
face.
9.        The provincial roads in Oriental Mindoro and the San Jose district
of Occidental Mindoro would be executed by contract. The roads in Mamburao
and Sablayan districts of Occidental Mindoro would be constructed and im-
proved by force account because of their isolation.
10.       There are currently only two engineers on the Provincial Engineer's
staff in Oriental Mindoro and three in Occidental Mindoro. To carry out a
road program of this size would require at least 15 engineers plus support-
ing staff in each of the two provinces. It would be hard for the provincial
Governments to recruit this many qualified engineers. Therefore, DPH would
carry out the detailed engineering and supervise construction of the pro-
vincial roads. After construction, the roads would be turned over to the
Provincial Engineers for maintenance.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Procurement of Equipment
11.       The provincial equipment pool in Occidental Mindoro consists of 29
pieces with a useful remaining life of no more than four years. In order to
carry out the construction and improvement of about 77 km of provincial roads
by force account, additional items of equipment would be needed (Annex 9).
A small sum has been included for the purchase of workshop tools and equip-
ment for first line maintenance. After completion of project works, the
equipment and workshop facilities would be handed over to the Provincial
Engineer for maintenance of provincial roads.
Technical Assistance
12.       One highway expert would be provided to assist Region IV of DPH
in the detailed engineering and supervision of construction of the national
highways and provincial roads. A total of 42 man-months has been allowed
for at the rate of US$3,600 per man-month.
Consulting Services
13.       Provision has been made for consultants to carry out feasibility
studies and, if warranted, detailed engineering of a national highway in
Occidental Mindoro from Paluan in the north to San Jose in the south, with
possible link roads to Oriental Mindoro. The construction would reduce
the need for small port facilities. The studies would require about 120
man-months over a period of about 18 months at an average cost of about
US$5,000 per man-month.
Cost and Implementation
14.       The total cost of the road program including physical contingen-
cies and costs due to expected price increases is estimated to be US$27.0
million of which US$14.6 million would be foreign exchange. This works
out to about US$70,000/km for the national highways and US$28,000/km for
the provincial roads. The total cost of equipment to be procured under
the project is estimated at US$800,000. Details of the cost estimate are
given in Annex 8 and a list of equipment is shown in Annex 9. The road
works would be constructed over four years beginning November 1975 (Chart
9373).
Road Maintenance
15.       Maintenance of the national highways is the responsibility of
Region IV of DPH which has its headquarters in Quezon City. The field
work is carried out by the District Engineer in each of the two provinces.
Road maintenance organization and equipment services were recently studied
by Kampsax/Berger (Denmark, U.S.), consultants, under the First Highway
Project (Loan 731-PH) and changes are expected to be implemented with the
help of the same consultants under the Second Highway Project (Loan 950-PH).
The consultants will submit recommendations for a five-year road maintenance



ANNEX 4
Page 4
program, including equipment requirements, to be financed under the proposed
Third Highway Project. At present, however, the equipment pools are limited
and in poor condition and the workshops need urgent reorganization.
16.       The provincial roads are maintained by the Provincial Engineers.
Each province has its own equipment pool and workshop. Oriental Mindoro
has recently received some surplus military equipment under the U.S.-assisted
Provincial Development Assistance Program (PDAP). PDAP is also involved in
reorganizing the workshop and training mechanics. Occidental Mindoro does
not at present participate in PDAP but the Government plans to include it in
the Program in conjunction with the proposed project. In addition, it will
receive the equipment procured under the project after force account works
are completed. Provincial capabilities to maintain roads are expected to
improve to satisfactory levels.
B. Calapan Port
Background
17.       Sea transport plays a large role in Mindoro and the Philippines.
As the road system improves, however, there will be a tendency for major
cargo movements to be concentrated at fewer ports. Undoubtedly, many
coastal communities will continue to conduct local trade through small
ports but the proportion of main commodities dealt with in this manner
is likely to fall appreciably.
18.       The only national port in Mindoro is at Calapan (Map 11159); all
other public ports are municipal facilities. Calapan is used principally
by passenger/cargo ferries from Batangas in southern Luzon but there is
also some traffic between Calapan and Manila. About 2500 vessels called
at Calapan in FY73, carrying a total of about 800,000 passengers and 72,000
tons of cargo (Table 3). This represents about 60% of all passenger and
cargo movements between Mindoro and the rest of the Philippines. In 1973
Mindoro produced an estimated surplus of 120,000 tons of agricultural
products, and by 1979 the surplus is likely to reach about 240,000 tons
(Table 4). At present about 75% of the surplus is transported by road to
Calapan from where it is exported to Batangas and Manila. This pattern
is expected to continue.
Existing Port Facilities
19.       The existing facilities consist of an 80 m long causeway 9 m wide
leading to a reinforced concrete pier 105 m long forming a T-head, with 3
berths on the outside and one berth each on the inside and return. The
mean level of low water (MLLW) varies from 2.5 m at one end of the pier to
5 m at the other. The causeway and one end of the pier are of pre-World
War II construction. The pier deck has deteriorated badly but the piles
are in good condition. Concrete sleeves have been added to some pile heads



ANNEX 4
Page 5
to support a new deck of flat slab construction above the old deck slab.
Under the project it is proposed to sleeve all the remaining pile heads so
that the new deck could carry the original design live load of 300 lb/ft2.
Passenger handling facilities do not exist and embarkation and disembarka-
tion are hazardous. Apart from one small public shed there are no port
storage facilities.
Preparation and Execution
20.       The project would include the rehabilitation and upgrading of the
existing pier and deck, new fendering, reclamation of 4,000 m of land and
surfacing to provide cargo storage space and the construction of a 600 m2
passenger building and concrete landing stair. The Ports and Harbors Divi-
sion of the Department of Public Works (DPW) is responsible for the design,
construction and maintenance of all national ports. A preliminary study of
the proposed works including quanitities and cost estimates was carried out
by DPW and is satisfactory. DPW would also prepare detailed designs, draw-
ings, specifications and bid documents. Construction would be by contract
supervised by DPW.
Cost and Implementation
21.       The cost of the port improvements including physical contingencies
and costs due to expected price increases is estimated to be about US$0.4
million, of which US$0.2 million would be foreign exchange. Details of the
cost estimate are given in Annex 8. The works are scheduled for execution
over three years beginning November 1975 (Chart 9373).



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Description of Project Roads
Calapan-Baco National Highway (10 kn) (US$0.6 million)
1.        This road starts at the junction with the Calapan-Roxas City
national highway, 4.72 km from the center of Calapan town. It traverses
flat and sometimes rolling terrain and passes through the Simaron and
Canubing barrios to reach the town of Baco. The area served by the road
is planted with rice, coconut and fruit trees.
2.        The road generally has a good horizontal alignment but the road
embankment has to be raised as it is under water by an average of 70 cm during
floods. The width of the existing road formation varies from 7.00 to 8.00 m.
The road is surfaced with natural river gravel and has poor riding qualities.
Cross drainage is inadequate and poorly maintained. Scouring of the embank-
ment occurs because of the absence of headwalls from the reinforced concrete
box culverts.
3.        The proposed improvements consist of raising the road embankment
by about one meter above the existing grade and building the road to Class 2
standards with 6.10 m carriageway and double bituminous surface dressing.
Additional culverts would be constructed and improvements would be made to
existing drains and culverts. A temporary bridge would be replaced by a
permanent reinforced concrete bridge.
Calapan-Roxas City National Highway (140 km) (US$8.0 million)
4.        This is the main national highway of Oriental Mindoro and serves all
the main towns and municipal centers. Over most of its length, traffic is
subject to occasional interruption by floods during the rainy season.
5.        The road begins at Calapan Port and runs in a southeasterly
direction through flat terrain planted with rice to the town of Victoria
(km 34) and continues to the Merritt river (km 42) on similar terrain. It
then starts ascending through mountainous country planted with bananas,
citrus, coconut and other fruit trees, and then descends to the town of
Leuteboro (km 52).



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 2
6.        The entire length of the section from Calapan to Victoria is under
water by an average of 50 cm during heavy floods which occur every year. The
road bed is level with the surrounding rice fields so that drains and culverts
are inadequate to cope with the annual flood waters. The existing pavement
and subgrade are unstable because of the flooding and the high water table
that prevails year round. Repairs to the low grade asphalt surface and
periodic resurfacing are difficult and expensive.
7.        The three existing bridges over the Bucayao, Pangalan and Magasawang-
Tubig rivers have been constructed with high approach embankments and would
be retained. One of the bridges shows some signs of distress, but con-
sideration to replace any of the bridges would be postponed until flood
control measures to regulate these rivers are studied and implemented. The
rehabilitation of the Baco-Bucayao irrigation system would, however, permit
the reconstruction of the road itself to better standards. The improvements
proposed for the Calapan-Victoria section of the road are to raise the
embankment by about one meter (to be finalized at detailed engineering stage)
and to improve drainage, particularly cross drainage.
8.        Beyond the Merritt river (km 42), improvements to both horizontal
and vertical alignments are necessary. There are also places where slides
would occur in cuttings. Installation of proper longitudinal and cross
drainage facilities would also be required. The existing surface consists of
ungraded natural gravel and has poor riding qualities.
9.        The 21 km of highway from Leuteboro to Pinamalayan (km 73) are
asphalted and pass through flat country planted with rice. The condition
of the pavement is better than that of the Calapan-Victoria section. The
alignments are adequate but some scattered sections have to be raised. No
significant river control problems exist in this area. Except for one 30 m
long bridge, all bridges are permanent and need no replacement.
10.       From Pinamalayan the road is gravel surfaced and passes through
flat country up to Bansud. It is of reasonable standards, although this
part of the road is liable to be flooded in some areas. Between Bansud and
the Bongabong river crossing the road travels through mountainous country
and has poor alignments and a deteriorated surface. Drainage is poor partic-
ularly in the cuttings.
11.       The Bongabong river bridge is 360 m long and has a permanent sub-
structure built in 1965. The superstructure, which was constructed from
bailey bridging with timber deck, is in a neglected condition and would be
repaired under the project. From this bridge the road traverses mountainous
and flat areas until it reaches Roxas City Junction.
12.       The improvements proposed are to widen the mountainous sections
and correct the horizontal and vertical alignments there. The road align-
ments are generally good in the flat areas. The road generally would have a



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 3
6.10 m carriageway with 2.00 m shoulders on flat terrain and 1.50 m shoulders
in mountainous areas. It would also be paved with a double bituminous coat
surface dressing. The entire road would be built to Class 2 standards.
13.       All the temporary bridges would be replaced by permanent structures
except for the unfinished bridge across the Bongabong river, whose temporary
deck would be repaired under the project. Construction of a permanent
structure would be considered as part of a later stage development along
with the bridges over the Bucayao, Pangalan and Magasawang-Tubig rivers,
following construction of river control works. Although the latter bridges
were designed as permanent structures, damage has been caused to the bridges
and approaches by flood waters.
Provincial Roads (US$5.7 million)
14.       The state of development of provincial roads varies widely around
Mindoro. In Oriental Mindoro the network of provincial roads is fairly
well developed, particularly in the northern part. In Occidental Mindoro
there are a few provincial roads serving the coastal communities in Mamburao,
Santa Cruz, Sablayan, Rizal and San Jose.
15.       The roads vary in width from one to two lanes and are paved with
ungraded natural gravel. As they are mostly built level with the surrounding
fields, they are often subject to flooding. Drainage is almost nonexistent
and many bridges are either missing or constructed of poor quality timber
which does not last long. The roads and bridges are badly maintained and
are in poor condition. The assessed present daily traffic on the roads
varies from 30-100 vehicles per day (vpd) in Oriental Mindoro to 10-35 vpd
in Occidental Mindoro.
16.       The roads would be improved by the construction of crushed gravel
pavements and adequate drainage. They would also be generally raised to
provide an all-weather service. They would have single lanes only and would
have a minimum overall road formation width of 5.50 m with 3.50 m wide
carriageway. The temporary bridges would be replaced by permanent structures.



ANNEX 4
Table I
PHILIPPINES
RUY?AL DEVELOPNIENT P9OJECT
ROADS & CALAPAN PORT
Highway Design Standards
National Highways
Class 2
Flat      Rolling      Mountainous
Design Speed (Ian/h)                60        50              40
Pavement Width (m)                6.10      6.10            6.10
Shoulder Width (m)                2.00      1.50            1.00
Min. Hor. Radius (m)               150         90             50
Stopping Sight Distance (m)         70        60              50
Pass Sight Distance (m)            350       300             175
Maximum Gradient (%)                 4          6              7
Maximum Superelevation (%)         6.5        7.5            8.5
Right of Way (m)                    30        30              30
Source: DPH



ANNEX 4
PHILIPPINES
2IUAL DEL--LOH4ENT PROJECT
ROADS & CALAPAN PORT
List of Provincial Roads to be Improved
A. ORIENTAL MINDORO
Length
Name of Road                         (km
1. National Highway Jct. - Aurora-Mulawin        11.5
2. Sta Rosa-Mangangan-Mayabig-Caco               14.5
3. Canubing-Comunal-Aurora                        9.5
4. Bangkaton-Dulangan                             9.0
5. National Highway Jct.-Minas                    9.0
6. Lumangbayan-Pili (Bridges only)                -
7. Lumangbayan-Buli-0alima                        6.o
8. Socorro-Forturia                               7.0
9. National Highway Jct. - San Agustin            4.0
10. Magbang-Upper Banus                            5.0
11. Quinabigan Jct.-Sta Rita                       9.5
12. Bansud-Conrazon                                4.0
13. San Mariano-Oncunom-Masaguiai                 18.5
14. Malitbog-Carmundo                              8.0
15. Libtong-Cantil (Libtong Bridge only)           -
16. Oncunom-Pandan (Bridge only)                    -
Sub-total                            115.5
B. OCCIDENTAL MINDORO
1. Magsaysay-Lastv                                7.1
2. Bulo Jct.-San*icolas                           6.2
3. Magsaysay-Sta Teresa                           7.0
4. Magsaysay-Caguray                              3.9
5. National Highway Jct.-Magsaysay                5.5
6. Magsaysay/Laste Road Jct.-Gapasan              7.7
7. National Highway Jet.-Lourdes                  4.0
8. National Highway Jct.-Caswaling-NIDC Road      4.o
9. National Highway Jct.-Msngaria                 1.2
10. National Highway Jct.-Pitago-Sto Niffo        10.8
11. Central-Sto Niffo-Calintaan                   13.5
12. National Highway Jct.-Calintaan                7.9
13. Malatikwang-Outad                              7.3
14. Sablayan-San Vincente                          8.6
15. San Vincente Jct.-Pagasa                      28.2
16. National Highway Jct.-Ligaya                   1.4
17. Sablayan-Sta Lucia                            14.0
18. National Highway Jct.-Sta lucia                6.o
19. National Highway Jct.-Sta Cruz                 7.0
20. Sta Cruz-Casague                               5.0
21. Provincial Road Jct.-Carumbac                  2.5
22, National Highway Jct.-Barahan                  5.7
Sub-total                             164.5
TOTAL                                 280.0
Source: DPH/Provincial &hgineer/Aission



ANNEX  4
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
qUTIAL DEVELOPMR4T PROJEOP
ROADS & CAIAPAN PORT
Shipping Statistics (Calapan Port )
FY           FY           FY           FY
1969-70      1970-71      1971-72      1972-73
1. No. of Ship calls               2,272        2,840        2,810        2,502
2.  Ave. stay in Hrs.                 10           10           10           10
3.  Ave. length in Meters             37           32           33           36
4. Max. length in Meters              57           50           57           67
5. Ave. Width in Meters                6            6            6            6
6. Max. Width in Meters               10            8           10           10
7. Max. Draft in Feet                 12           11           10           15
8.  Total Passenger                No data    557,675      627,766      793,142
a.  Disembark                  No data    306,936      320,231      368,144
b.  Embark                     No data    250,739      307,535      424,998
9.  Total Cargo Tonnage           26,799       54,413       54,594       72,106
a.  Discharged                12,846       18,846       21,514       25,937
b.  Loaded                    13,953       35,567       33,080       46,169
10. Berth Occupancy in
Percentage                   79%          85%          86%          85%
Source: DPW



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DHEVELOPMHET PROJECT
ROADS & CALAPAN PORT
Forecast Quantities of Agricultural Commodities
Shipped out of Calapan 1/
Estimated                  Estimated                    Balance
quantity surplus          quantity shipped                 shipped                      %
to local requirements        out of Calapan            out of other ports            Shipped out
Commodity                 tons                        tons                       tons                   of Calapan
1973        1979         1973        1979            1973        1979          1973         1979
Rice (Paddy)          91,000     205,000        69,000     168,500          22,0oo      36,500           76          82
Copra2./              18,000      19,300        12,500      16,500          5,500        2,800           69          85
Bannana 2/             7,000       8,000         7,000       8,0oo0           -                         100         100
Citrus                 5,000       7,000                     7,000            _          -              100         100
TOTAL           121,000     239,300        93,500     200,000         27,500       39,300           77          84
1/ Oriental Mindoro Only
2/ Estimated from discussions with provincial staff and shippers.
Source: FAO/IBTRDiI



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Program and Supporting Services
Extension
1.        A number of Government organizations currently has dealings
with the farmers. The principal agencies are:
(a) The Bureau of Agricultural Extension (BAE);
(b) The Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI);
(c) The Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR);
(d) The Agricultural Credit Administration (ACA);
(e) The Philippine National Bank (PNB);
(f) The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP);
(g) The Department of Local Government and Community
Development (DLGCD); and
(h) The National Irrigation Administration (NIA).
In addition there are the privately owned Rural Banks (RB) controlled by
the Central Bank.
2.        In the Upper Pampanga River Project (UPRP) (Loan 637-PH) the need
for coordinating the various agencies providing services to the farmers
was clearly felt. In September 1972, the heads of the NIA, the ACA, the
DAR, the Central Bank of the Philippines, the National Food and Agricultural
Council on behalf of the BAE and BPI and the Federation of Nueva Ecija
Rural Bankers signed a memorandum of agreement. The memorandum set forth
in detail the responsibilities of the various agencies within the UPRP and
provided for coordinating machinery. Day-to-day control is exercised by
an Agricultural Development Coordinating Council (ADCC) consisting of the
provincial heads of the participating agencies. The arrangement seems to
be working well and as a result the Government would set up an ADCC based
on each Mindoro province to coordinate agricultural supporting services



ANNEX 5
Page 2
for the proposed project. In addition to the agencies represented in the
ADCC for the UPRP, PNB and DBP would also be members. The two Councils
on Mindoro would have some members in common, since both provinces are in
the Southern Tagalog administrative region.
3.        BAE is mainly responsible for agricultural extension, with technical
back-up provided by BPI. Under the "Masagana 99" supervised credit program
aimed at increasing rice production, a total of 50 graduate agricultural
technicians from BAE, BPI and DAR was working in Oriental Mindoro and 40
in Occidental Mindoro as of June 1974. This worked out to a ratio of
one technician to about 600 farmers in Oriental Mindoro and one to 300
in Occidental Mindoro. Under the project the number of graduate tech-
nicians would be increased so that there would be equal coverage of one
technician to about 300 farmers ih both provinces.
4.        The Pula and Baco-Bucayao national irrigation systems (Annex 3)
would be organized on the basis of irrigation units of 50 ha in the same
manner as the UPRP. The 20-25 farmers in such a unit would be given every
incentive to work together as a group. The NIA would schedule irrigation
on a rotational basis, thus promoting a uniformity of operations within each
unit at any given time. The rotational area would also be the basic unit
for the provision of credit and the building block for the eventual organi-
zation of irrigation associations and cooperatives. In UPRP the NIA is
assigning a Water Management Technologist, who is an agricultural graduate,
to every 10 units. The same staffing pattern would be applied to the national
irrigation systems under the proposed project.  The water management staff,
all of whom would be trained agriculturists, would supplement the existing
extension personnel and would help to increase the density of extension
coverage in the irrigated areas.
Farmers' Organizations
5.        As part of the agrarian reform program the Government, through
the DLGCD, is promoting the formation of samahang nayons or pre-cooperative
farmers' organizations, based on the barrio or hamlet. The organizations
would serve as channels for the inflow of technical services, credit and
inputs and as assembly points for produce intended for market. Extension
agents would visit each samahang nayon on an average of once every two weeks.
Each samahang nayon would select a "progressive farmer" to assist the exten-
sion agent and to maintain contact with the farmers in the organization
between visits. It is hoped that eventually the organizations would grow
into full-fledged, formally constituted cooperatives. This approach to
cooperative organization fits in well with the 50 ha irrigation unit approach
adopted by NIA in the national irrigation system areas (para 4).



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Research
6.        There is no agricultural research station on Mindoro.  The island
relies on the Maligaya Rice Research and Training Center in Central Luzon.
The Center is operated by BPI and is engaged in selection and breeding,
fertilizer application, weed control, crop protection, water management
and storage and processing investigations on rice. It also works on possible
rotation crops to rice and is responsible for seed production, certification
and testing for rice and other crops. The Center also trains extension
agents. In addition to the Center, the project could draw on research back-up
from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and the Agricultural
College of the University of the Philippines at Los Banos.
Fertilizer
7.        Annual consumption of fertilizer on Mindoro for rice and corn is
currently about 16,000 tons of which about two-thirds is ammonium phosphate.
Application rates for all fertilizer average around 100 kg/ha. At full
development the island would consume an estimated 25,000 tons of fertilizer
annually, of which 60% would be ammonium phosphate. The normal recommended
application per paddy crop would be 50-60 kg/ha of nitrogen and 30 kg/ha of
phosphate. Under the Masagana 99 program, farmers would receive five 50 kg
bags per ha: 1 bag urea (45-0-0), 1 bag ammonium sulfate (21-0-0) and 3 bags
ammonium phosphate (16-20-0) to make up this application. In non-irrgiated
areas with supervised credit, farmers are assumed to use an average of 3 bags
of fertilizer per ha. In areas without supervised credit, average application
rates are assumed to be half the above amounts.
8.        The two Mindoro provinces are included among about 40 provinces
which have been declared priority areas for food crop production. The
required fertilizer would therefore be made available to the island. In
addition, there are sufficient commercial distributors on the island to
handle the increased demand. At present, the main problem in distributing
fertilizer is lack of infrastructure and transport facilities. The proposed
road and port improvements under the project (Annex 4) would relieve this
bottleneck.
Seed
9.        Farmers on the island currently use some 8,500 tons of rice seed
per year. Seeding rates tend to be unnecessarily heavy as an insurance
against the risk of seedling losses. Seed is obtained mostly by retention
from the farmers' commercial production. At full development.about 7,000
tons of rice seed per year would be required. The decrease from current
use would be achieved by a reduction in the seed rate to 50 kg/ha through
improved extension. On the assumption that rice seed would be renewed for



ANNEX 5
Page 4
every fourth crop in the improved irrigated areas and every fifth crop
on average in the unimproved irrigated and rainfed areas where supervised
credit is available (para 22), the estimated annual requirement for quality
seed at full development would be about 750 tons. The project would assist
the production of certified seed in each province to supply this amount,
plus a surplus of about 400 tons per year from Occidental Mindoro for ship-
ment to Luzon.
10.       BPI is responsible for organizing certified rice seed production
in Mindoro through cooperating growers. BPI supplies registered seed
produced at its own stations or at IRRI, inspects the crop, tests samples
and issues certification documents. In 1974 there were about 70 cooperating
growers in Oriental Mindoro on about 100 ha, concentrated around the BPI
rice demonstration farm at Naujan. In addition, the National Industrial
Development Corporation (NIDC), owned by PNB, grew seed on some 160 ha of
its rice estate near San Jose, Occidental Mindoro. Only a small number of
farmers on Mindoro now use certified seed, however. Seeds produced by local
growers frequently do not meet the certification standards due to insufficient
technical supervision. Furthermore the certification procedure, requiring
samples to be tested in Manila, is lengthy so that growers prefer to sell
their paddy commercially rather than wait for certification. The proposed
project would solve those problems by strengthening the technical supervi-
sion of growers, setting up seed testing laboratories in both provinces
for timely certification, and supplying certified seeds to farmers under
supervised credit.
11.       In Oriental Mindoro about 200 ha of certified seed would be produced
on farms of cooperating growers near the rice demonstration farm at Naujan.
BPI already has drying and cleaning facilities to handle the estimated annual
production of 600 tons, which would meet the province's estimated annual
requirements. In Occidental Mindoro BPI would supply foundation seed to the
NIDC estate at San Jose to be grown out to registered seed during the wet
season. About 200 ha would be sown to registered seed in the dry season to
produce 600 tons of certified seed. Existing drying, cleaning and storage
facilities are adequate to handle this amount. Annual local demand would be
about 200 tons, leaving about 400 tons for export to Luzon.
12.       BPI would establish a seed testing laboratory with required equip-
ment and staff at Calapan and San Jose. It would purchase certified seed from
producers and arrange transportation and storage in conjunction with the pro-
vincial extension officers. It would store the seed initially in suitable
warehouses in each municipality and release it to farmers with supervised
credit papers, or for cash. As the use of certified seed increases, BPI
would encourage dealers in fertilizer and other inputs to distribute seed
as well, with the aim of shifting seed distribution completely into com-
mercial channels as soon as possible.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Rat Control
13.       Limited rat control is now carried out by BPI staff under the senior
plant pest control officer in each Mindoro province. Oriental Mindoro has
nine pest control officers and six pest control workers, while Occidental
Mindoro has six pest control officers and nine pest control workers. These
staff are responsible for all pest and disease control activities for all crops
in Mindoro and have limited time for rat control, although Mindoro is con-
sidered moderately to heavily infested.
14.       Although farmers and BPI staff report widespread damage, the only
rat control currently carried out is massive baiting at harvest time using
zinc phosphide as the acute poison.   BPI estimates that some 10,000 ha of
lowland rice were covered in Oriental Mindoro and 5,000 ha in Occidental Mindoro
for the 1973 wet season crop. Sustained baiting with chronic anti-coagulant
poisons is carried out with German bilateral technical assistance only in
pilot areas near Victoria, Oriental Mindoro and San Jose, Occidental Mindoro.
15.       In these pilot areas, which cover some 3,000 ha, dramatic decreases
in tiller damage and increases in-yield have been demonstrated. In Occidental
Mindoro, where most of the work has been done at the NIDC estate and surround-
ing areas, average paddy yields over the last five crops in untreated areas
were 1.1 ton/ha, while in the controlled areas average yields were increased
to 3.1 ton/ha by sustained chronic poisoning alone. Although they undoubtedly
exaggerate the benefits which could be expected from introducing a rat control
program island-wide, these results accord with data obtained by BPI and
German technicians elsewhere in the Philippines in heavily infested areas.
16.       The rats breed in wastelands and in the foothill areas of Mindoro,
and constant control is5needed since elimination is practically impossible.
Three main species are involved: Rattus rattus mindanensis, R. exulans and
R. argentiventer. The rats breed throughout the year and reach maturity in
50-70 days. A pair of sexually mature rats can produce over 1,000 offspring
per year through successive generations.
17.       Rat control is estimated to cost about P 30/ha each year for the
first five years of bringing 90,000 ha under control. At forecast paddy
prices for 1980 of P 50/cavan this cost would be covered by an additional
production of 15-30 kg/ha per crop, depending on the cropping intensity.
Returns on rat control are expected to be very high accordingly.
18.       The BPI crop protection officer in each province would be responsible
for carrying out an extensive rat control programme. A pest control technician
would be assigned to each municipality. He would be responsible for collecting
and storing poison supplies under strict control, for distributing different
chronic poisons, and for organizing massive baiting campaigns at harvest time.
Farm technicians would distribute the poisons on their bi-weekly visits to
the samahang nayons or farmers' groups (para 5). Progressive farmers would
be responsible for mixing and distributing poison baits in conjunction with



AN{NEX 5
Page 6
the barrio captains. Barrio captains would be responsible for arranging
supplies of baiting material, which would be supplied free by farmers.
19.       Baiting huts would be made from galvanized sheet to a standard
design and provided free to farmers as an incentive and extension vehicle.
Manufacture of baiting huts would be supervised by the pest control techni-
cians. Farm technicians would distribute the baiting huts to progressive
farmers who would in turn supply them to local farmers. The project would
cover the whole lowland paddy area of about 90,000 ha within five years.
Credit
20.       An estimated 10-20% of the farmers on the island finance their
farm inputs and hired labor from their own resources. The remainder use
some form of credit. The principal sources are: banks, notably the
RBs, PNB, DBP and private banks; ACA; input dealers, marketing organizations
and millers; and money lenders.
21.       To ensure the success of the agrarian reform program, the Govern-
ment has strengthened the credit institutions and facilitated the granting
of institutional production credit to small farmers, who previously depended
on the landlords for their requirements. RBs have been authorized rediscount-
ing privileges of 100%, Government guarantees of up to 85% of the loans
made and low-cost money from the Central Bank. The easier credit thus made
available is employed under a system of "supervised credit", which includes
the provision of technical services to the borrower to ensure that recommended
practices, including var.>ty, fertilizer and agrochemical inputs, are
adopted. Loans granted under supervised credit are not secured by collateral,
but are covered by a Government guarantee; the interest rate is 12% per
annum and the maturity is 5 to 6 months.
22.       As of June 1974, the targets for Masagana 99 supervised credit cover-
age were 16,500 ha in Occidental Mindoro and 11,000 ha in Oriental Mindoro.
With the project at full development, the target for Occidental would remain
the same. This would include 100% coverage of the improved communal irriga-
tion systems (1,000 ha) and 37% coverage of the unimproved communal systems
and rainfed areas (42,000 ha). In Oriental Mindoro the target would be
increased to 25,000 ha, which would represent 100% coverage of the improved
national and communal irrigation systems (14,000 ha) and 30% coverage of the
unimproved communal systems and rainfed areas (36,000 ha).
23.       Under the Masagana 99 program, the maximum level of production
credit has been increased from P 700/ha in 1973 to its present level of
P 1,200/ha. The present amount consists of P 670/ha for fertilizers and
chemicals and P 530/ha for seeds, hired labor and an element of subsistence,
and would be adequate to meet the production costs estimated at full develop-
ment. With the proposed coverage at full development (para 22), the maximum
credit requirement would be P 19.8 million (US$2.9 million) in Occidental
Mindoro and P 30.0 million (US$4.3 million) in Oriental Mindoro. The existing
credit institutions are expected to be able to meet the requirement.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Costs
24.       The proposed project would finance the certified seed production and
rat control programs only. They are estimated to cost a total of US$3.6 mil-
lion, including physical contingencies and costs due to expected price
increases. The foreign exchange component is US$1.3 million. Details of the
estimate are given in Annex 8 and a list of equipment is shown in Annex 9.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schistosomiasis Control
Background
1.        Schistosomiasis is an important public health problem in the
Philippines. The overall prevalence (as of 1970) is estimated at about
500,000 cases. The disease is not uniformly distributed, but is concentrated
in areas where hydrologic and topograhpic conditions combine to create suit-
able habitats for the vector snails. The most important areas of high
prevalence are the east coast of Leyte and the island of Mindanao. In
Mindoro the disease is confined to a region around Lake Naujan, located on
a coastal plain in the northeast portion of the island. The lake is 24 km
long by 12 km wide and lies only 3.5 km from the coast at the closest point.
Tributary rivers flow into the lake from all sides, especially the west.
An outlet river flows from the north end of the lake to the ocean a few
kilometers further north. A range of low mountains separates the east shore
of the lake from the sea (Map 11160).
2.        There are 20 barrios in the four municipalities surrounding Lake
Naujan where schistosomiasis is endemic. The population is widely dispersed
and the economy of the area is based almost entirely on agriculture, especially
rice farming. A schistosomiasis control team (para 7) headquartered at
Victoria has thoroughly mapped the snail colonies. Infected snails are
found only east of the main road running from Calapan through Victoria to
Socorro. There is no clear explanation for this, but the land gradually
becomes steeper to the west so that swamps and surface ponding become less
frequent. Also the population density decreases rapidly in that direction.
The total endemic area is about 40,000 ha.
3.        The parasite of schistosomiasis in the Philippines is Schistosoma
japonicum, and the vector snail is Oncomelania quadrasi. These snails have
a narrow pointed shell and are quite small, rarely exceeding 5 mm in length.
They are amphibious, and migrate at will in and out bf water. Their normal
habitat is in swamps. They are fairly sensitive and do not do well in turbid
water, nor can they stand prolonged desiccation. However they can survive
drought periods by burrowing into the mud and remaining there until the
land again becomes flooded. The snail is bi-sexual. Mature females lay
eggs at the rate of one or two every few days. Eggs are usually laid above
the water surface, but hatch only after a period of immersion. The infant
snails are aquatic for about two weeks, and thereafter spend most of the
time out of water. Females reach egg laying maturity about ninety days
after hatching.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        In 1953 the Philippine Government established a schistosomiasis
control pilot project at Palo, Leyte. Extensive research was carried out
on the natural history of flukes and snails, and the initial results have
been thoroughly described in a WHO publication, Studies on Schistosoma
Japonicum Infection in the Philippines (Pesigan et al, WHO, 1958).
5.        Development of infection in the snail requires about 60 days, as
measured between the time of successful penetration of a miracidium to the
onset of cercaria shedding. Cercariae are released at an average rate
of about three per day for several months, or effectively, for the rest
of the snail's life. In Oriental Mindoro the snail infection rate within
the known colonies ranges generally from 0 to about 5%. Unfortunately,
no good information is available from which to determine the most important
contact situations between humans and cercariae-infested water. Although
the life span of a cercaria is only a day or two, they can always be found
in concentrations of a few per liter in the vicinity of infected snails.
In addition, they occur in the waters of even fairly large rivers downstream
from snail colonies, though at much lower concentrations. Since there is
considerable laundering and bathing in the rivers they are probably
important sources of infection.
6.        The existence of non-human reservoir hosts significantly increases
the difficulty of controlling Schistosoma japonicum. Other animals which
readily acquire the infection include the dog, cow, carabao, pig, and
rat. A rule-of-thumb estimate of the Schistosomiasis Control Commission
(para 7) is that humans are responsible for about 50% of the actual
transmission, with 25% coming from domestic animals and 25% from wild rats.
7.        All control work in the Philippines is carried out under the
direction of the National Schistosomiasis Control Commission (NSCC). The
Commission's chairman is the Secretary of Health, and the other members
are the Secretaries of Education and Culture, Agriculture, Natural Resources,
Local Government and Community Development, the Director General of the
National Economic and Development Authority, the Commissioner of the Budget,
the Administrator of the National Irrigation Administration, and the
President of the Philippine Medical Association. NSCC is supposed to
formulate and carry out a control program in which all the member agencies
participate. In practice, however, the only agency which has a budget
for control work is the Department of Health, with its Schistosomiasis
Research and Control Project (SRCP). The SRCP has its headquarters with
the Department of Health in Manila, and the facilities at Palo, Leyte are
operated as a research and training center. In addition there are six
regional schistosomiasis control teams stationed in the provinces of
Oriental Mindoro, Sorsogon, Western Samar, Leyte, Lanao del Norte, and
Davao del Norte. The teams are composed of a medical parasitologist,
sanitary engineer, malacologist, two technicians, a draftsman/instrument-
man and a driver.
8.        The teams conduct snail surveys, prepare topographic maps of
snail colonies, conduct prevalence census among primary school children,



ANNEX 6
Page 3
and provide diagnosis and treatment through rural health units. The
rural health units are also supposed to include schistosomiasis in health
education activities in the schools. However, the control teams have no
budget for labor, equipment, or materials needed to carry out any kind of
snail control. Volunteer labor became available to the teams in 1971 through
a World Food Program project of the FAO 1/. Surplus food was to be provided
for distribution to local volunteers recruited to carry out specific projects,
mostly drainage work. The program was initiated in five of the operating
control areas in 1971, but was suspended in Samar and Oriental Mindoro in
1973.
Proposed Project Components
9.        NSCC has prepared a project proposal whereby control would be
obtained using all four of the possible general approaches, namely, health
education, environmental sanitation, diagnosis and treatment, and snail
control.
10.       Health Education.  The control team would tack up posters in
public places in the four endemic municipalities warning against exposure
and promoting responsible defecation habits. The control team would also
operate a mobile audio-visual unit and portable generator for health education
presentation in schools. The Department of Education would assist in the
campaign.
11.       Environmental Sanitation.  Some 10,000 water-seal toilets consisting
of a concrete base slab and seat would be provided free to any householder
who is willing to dig the pit and erect a superstructure.  The estimated
required number is based on the population in the endemic areas and the
assumption that 50% of,all families lack adequate sanitary facilities.
12.       The entire population would be provided with a safe water supply
from artesian wells. There is an artesian aquifer in the area and water
can be obtained by driving about 30 m of steel pipe into the ground.
However, it has not been established that such wells could be developed
everywhere in the area. The number of wells is based on the assumptions
that 65% of the families lack a safe water supply and that a well would
serve 300 people. The wells would be constructed by the Department of
Public Works, Division of Wells and Springs.
13.       Foot bridges across streams or ditches would be constructed in
each barrio on a self-help basis with materials and supervision supplied
by the Department of Local Government and Community Development.
14.       Diagnosis and Treatment.  The project would provide treatment
for all active cases of schistosomiasis, with a follow-up campaign to cover
an estimated 30% missed or reinfected cases. A few advanced cases would
be given hospital confinement, clinical tests and possibly surgery. The
1/   Philippines 594, "Control of Schistosomiasis through Agro-engineering
Measures".



ANNEX 6
Page 4
treatment would be preceded by a diagnosis campaign based on the examination
of fecal smears for the presence of schistosome eggs. Both diagnosis and
treatment would be carried out by the control team.
15.       Snail Control.  Snails would be eliminated by altering their
habitat. Depressions would be filled, drainage channels would be cleared,
straightened and improved, and drained swamp land would be cleared of
vegetation. The total area of snail colonies to be modified in some way
is about 460 ha, of which some 400 ha could be reclaimed for agricultural
use. This would require additional leveling, ditching and initial plowing,
but would reduce the need for future maintenance expenditure since farmers
would carry out maintenance work to keep up crop production. It is proposed
that all land modification work would be carried out by hand labor under the
Department of Public Works.
16.       Molluscicides would be used after completion of land modification
work. The proposal is to cover the entire 460 ha initially with three
applications at one-month intervals, followed by yearly maintenance
applications thereafter.
Implementation
17.       The objective of trying to totally eradicate the disease in the
Lake Naujan area and the proposed four-pronged approach are both sound. If
an all-out effort is not made, the result would be the expenditure of
considerable time and money in exchange for the temporary reduction of a
few people's worm burdens. Because the disease is now localized it is
subject to successful control, and the lessons learned from the campaign
could be used to benefit other more seriously affected parts of the
Philippines like Leyte, Samar and Mindanao. However, the foregoing proposals
have not yet been worked out in sufficient detail and leave many questions
unanswered. It is also necessary for all participating agencies to get
involved in project formulation, not just NSCC and the Department of Health.
This is particularly true for the Department of Public Works, which would
carry out the all-important land modification works, and the provincial
authorities, who have considerable control over public works projects,
and whose subsequent cooperation will be needed when the project is initiated.
18.       Health Education.  No major problem is foreseen for this
component. The proposal should ensure that enough people from the control
team, other regular Department of Health personnel and the Department of
Education are made available to carry out the range of activities that
would be required under the project.
19.       Environmental Sanitation.  The people must be provided with some
inducement to request, install and use the 10,000 toilets. A local ordinance
requiring the installation of minimal sanitary facilities in each dwelling
would not be unreasonable. A law against promiscuous defecation might also
be considered. These matters depend heavily on local attitudes and psycho-
logy and would be up to the Government to decide. At a minimum a promotional



ANNEX 6
Page 5
campaign would have to be mounted and this item should be included in the
project budget.
20.       The water supply item raises several questions.  It is a major
budget item and therefore its probable success in controlling the disease
should be assessed. A brief epidemiological survey should first be made
to determine the probable benefit from having clean water available. If
it is determined that safe water supplies would cut down on the infection
rate, then the feasibility of artesian wells and other types of supplies
should be established, and finally the number, location and cost should
be estimated. Provision must also be made for operation and maintenance
of the water supply systems, including recommendations for cost recovery.
21.       For the proposed foot bridges, the control team should determine
the exact number, locations and cost.
22.       Diagnosis and Treatment.  In the NSCC proposal, the treatment
program would begin along with the other control measures. It would be
better to postpone treatment in any given area until after most snail
control operations have been carried out. In this way the need to find
and treat reinfected cases would be reduced. The proposal should also
provide for sufficient personnel to carry out the program.
23.       Snail Control.  The heart of the proposed control scheme is
the permanent elimination of snail habitats, and success in reducing human
infections will depend almost entirely on this aspect. The areas to be
cleared and the volumes of drainage ditch excavation have been estimated,
and are good enough for planning purposes. The amount of clearing and
ditching that can be done per man-day have been estimated from data collected
under the World Food Program projects. However, the Department of Public
Works, which is supposed to carry out the land modification program, has
not yet been involved in developing the project. Public Works officials
agreed that when the time came and funds were budgeted they would be happy
to do the job, but this is not enough. At a minimum, the Department of
Public Works should review the proposed works on paper and in the field,
make its own budget estimates and include the necessary manpower and
scheduling in its own planning.
24.       In reviewing plans for land modification, several additional
factors should be considered. The works as proposed would require a lot
of maintenance. Alternatives such as pipes or lined channels instead of
earth drainage ditches should be considered. Provisions for land reclama-
tion after snail colonies have been eliminated should be worked out. The
discussion should include officials from the Department of Agriculture and
the National Irrigation Administration as well as those from the provincial
Government, the Department of Health and the Department of Public Works.
Finally, the comparative merits of using construction machinery or manual
labor for land modification should be considered. The analysis should take
into account relative financial costs, the employment situation in the area,
and the findings of the WHO team which reviewed the World Food Program
project in November 1974.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
25.       The terminal mollusciciding program should also be reviewed.  The
proposal calls for repeatedly broadcasting molluscicide over the whole
reclaimed area. A single application to the whole area might be justified
to protect future farmers on reclaimed land, but if the land modification is
successful the snails will disappear of their own accord. Maintenance
mollusciciding might be limited to strips of land adjacent to streams and
ditches.
Recommendations
26.       The schistosomiasis control plan should be reviewed by all
participating agencies, who must concur in the proposed methodology and
budget. The agencies should play an active role in formulating their own
activities and not merely agree to what NSCC has proposed. The plan should
include all requirements for personnel, facilities and equipment.
27.       A brief (two week) epidemiological survey should be carried out
by the schistosomiasis control team to determine the probable significance
of unsafe water supplies in the transmission of schistosomiasis. If it
appears that there would be substantial benefits from the provision of safe
water supplies, preliminary planning should be carried out to determine the
location, type, number and cost of water supply units to be furnished.
The plan should provide for operation and maintenance of the water supplies,
including recommendations for cost recovery (para 20).
28.       Proposed locations, designs and costs for new foot bridges across
streams and ditches should be established by the control team in collaboration
with barrio authorities (para 21).
29.       A large-scale diagnosis and treatment campaign should not be
initiated in any endemic area until after completion of the initial snail
control work there (para 22).
30.       The idea of using some earth moving equipment along with manual
labor for land modification, and alternatives to heavy annual maintenance
such as lined channels or land reclamation for agricultural use should be
considered. The Department of Public Works should take part in framing
the proposal. The extent of maintenance mollusciciding required should
also be reviewed in detail (para 23-25).
Costs
31.       Based on the NSCC proposal, the schistosomiasis control program
is roughly estimated to cost a total of US$2.5 million, including physical
contingencies and costs due to expected price increases. The foreign
exchange component would be about US$0.8 million. A lump sum of US$100,000
has been included for the purchase of equipment, vehicles, materials and
supplies. An itemized list would be reviewed by the Bank prior to
procurement. Details of the cost estimate are given in Annex 8.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mangyan Assistance
Background
1.        The earliest inhabitants of Mindoro were a diverse group of
peoples known collectively as Mangyans. From the evidence available these
peoples traded actively with the Chinese as far back as the third or
fourth century, AD. Nine main ethnological or tribal groups with distinctive
cultures have been identified. These are the Iraya, Alangan, Naujan, Buid,
11anunoo, Ratagnon, Pula, Batangan and Bangon.
2.        The tribes originally inhabited the coastal areas of Mindoro
where they lived by fishing, hunting and a primitve agriculture based on
shifting cultivation. Over the years, and because they had no legal titles
to the lands traditionally used, the Mangyans were driven from the lowlands.
They are now estimated to number about 20,000 families. Many of these
people have permanent contact with lowlanders and to some extent have been
absorbed, while some remain true hill tribes people shunning outside
contact and living in great poverty. The latter are scattered in several
rather loosely knit communities through the public forests in the central
mountains of Mindoro.
Mangyan Agriculture and Livelihood
3.        The main occupation of the Mangyans is primitive crop production
supported by some fishing, hunting, the gathering of forest products and
occasionally livestock raising. After rough clearing of the forest and
burning, the Mangyans plant upland rice and sometimes corn using a pointed
stick. Families normally clear a field of up to 2 ha. Rice yields on old
forest lands are normally about 0.9 ton/ha, but yields decline to about
0.7 ton/ha on land frequently cultivated.
4.        Following the rice harvest, other crops are planted such as
bananas, beans, eggplant, cassava and a number of root crops. In addition,
there are usually small numbers of citrus, coconuts and miscellaneous fruit
trees. Thus a field is not usually abandoned right after harvest, although
a fresh one is cut almost every year for the rice crop. The fruit trees
grow in the secondary bush to which the rice field reverts. I-ost Mangyan
families at any one time actively use two or three fields, and visit a
number of sites regularly for fruit collection. Because of this, many
Mangyan families appear to have a semi-nomadic existence and houses are
sometimes only temporarily inhabited. Typically, groups of about 10 houses
are the largest settlements in the more remote areas.  Many Mangyans now



ANNEX 7
Page 2
have fixed homes in larger settlement communities, within walking distance
of their fields, or near to lowlands where they can find occasional work.
5.        Especially in the South of Mindoro, the Mangyans sell or barter
rattan, other vines, bamboo, midribs of palm trees, wood and wild honey.
Rattan and nito are woven into baskets, mats and other articles. The
Buid tribe makes earthen pots which they barter for salt, sugar and other
foodstuffs with the Hanunoo tribe, which in turn trades with the lowlanders.
Other tribes such as the Bangon trade through the Hanunoo for beads,
needles, rice and salt.
6.        The Mangyans who do have contact with lowlanders often hire them-
selvers for menial jobs either as forest guides or as daily paid labor for
farmers and ranchers. They earn very little cash in addition to their keep
and some goods in kind, and total income from this source is of little
significance to the economy of most Mangyans.
7.        The shifting cultivation pattern traditionally practiced by the
Mangyans did not cause significant deforestation in Mindoro. The Mangyans
took measures to contain the fires set when clearing and burning, and the
fields normally reverted to secondary forest when abandoned. Fruit trees
were usually planted after the rice crop; fire protection and forest rever-
sion were therefore important to the Mangyans. Enough land was available
to allow many years before secondary forest had to be cut and the area
cultivated once more.
8.        Throughout Mindoro, the Mangyans have been progressively restricted
in the area available for cultivation by settlers moving into the foothills,
by logging and by Government protection of certain forest reserves. The
cycle between cultivating any particular piece of land has been dangerously
shortened to the point where crop yields are inadequate to support families,
droughts have more serious effects and erosion and watershed destruction are
very real hazards.
PANAMIN
9.        The Presidential Assistant on National Minorities (PANAMIN) would
be responsible for Mangyan assistance under the project. PANAMIN is directly
responsible to the President of the Philippines. Its operational arm is
a joint Government-private association for national ,iinorities- the PANAMIN
Foundation, Inc. The Foundation receives about half its income from
Government grants and half from returns on investments and private contri-
butions, which are tax deductible in the Philippines. Financial control of
the PANAMIN Foundation is by independent auditors.
10.       PANAMIN started with medical and legal assistance and has
broadened its activities into education and the economic development of
cultural minorities. Particular attention is given to ensuring the
availability of land for minorities and to legal protection of their rights.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
The Project
11.       The vast majority of Mangyans do not receive medical services
because their traditional living places are inaccessible, and because they
do not frequently visit the lowlands where rural health centers are located.
Nevertheless, occasional visits of special medical teams under PANAMIN or
by voluntary organizations have found ready response.
12.       Under the project, PANAMIN would establish a mobile medical team
in each province to work only with the Mangyans. Each team would consist
of a doctor, a nurse, a midwife and two drivers/nursing attendants. They
would be equipped with a 4-wheel drive vehicle, medical equipment and drugs,
and camping gear. The team would establish a regular schedule of visits to
Mangyan communities and would provide primary medical care. More serious
cases would be referred to the provincial or private hospitals. PANAMIN
would continue to encourage and arrange the visits of voluntary medical
assistants to work with the regular teams.
13.       In addition to medical assistance, PANAMIN would work with four
specific Mangyan communities:
(a)  Hanunoo-Buid tribe, located near Bulalacao, Oriental Mindoro;
(b) Alangan tribe, located near Pinamalayan, Oriental Mindoro;
(c) Iraya-Alangan tribe, located at Calimantan, Santa Cruz,
Occidental Mindoro; and
(d) Batangan tribe, located at Mount Iglit, Sablayan, Occidental
Mindoro.
It would grant legal titles for ancestral lands traditionally used by these
communities as provided under Presidential Decree 410 of March 1974. It
would construct a low-grade access road, mostly by hand labor, to permit
visits of the medical teams and the transport of goods. A PANAMIN field
officer would be assigned to live in each community. He would provide
seeds, planting materials and other agricultural inputs and would give
advice on trading agricultural outputs with other tribes and the lowlanders,
and on minority rights. The field officers would maintain close contact with
other Government services, especially the Department of Local Government
and Community Development, and with religious groups working with the
Mangyans.
Costs
14.       Based on PANAMIN estimates, the Mangyan assistance program is
estimated to cost a total of US$0.6 million, including physical contingencies
and costs due to expected price increases. The foreign exchange component
would be about US$0.2 million. An itemized list of equipment would be
reviewed by the Bank prior to procurement. Details of the cost estimate
are given in Annex 8.



PIIILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Control
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local          Foreign         Total             Local          Foreign         Total             Exchange
___  ------- (Pesos '000) -----------            ------------ (US$ '000) ------------                 %
A. NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (12,000 ha)I'
Irrigation                                              6,200          3,400            9,600              900            500            1,400              36
Drainage                                                8,900          2,800           11,700            1,300            400            1,700              24
Roads                                                   5,500          2,800            8,300              800            400            1,200              33
Flood Protection                                        4,200          2,000            6,200              600            300              900              33
Physical Contingencies 257.                             6,200          2,800             9,000             900            400            1,300              31
Engineering Supervision & Ado. 157,                     6,200            -               6,200             900                             900              -
Sub-total                                         37,200         13,800           51,000           5,400           2,000           7,400               27
B.  CQOMMtlJNAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (3,000 h.)i
Oriental Mindoro (2,000 ha)                             2,700            700             3,400             400             100             500              20
Occidental Mindoro (1,000 ha)                           2,100            700             2,800             300             100             400               25
Physical Contingencies 25%                              1,400            -               1,400             200            -                200              -
Engineering Supervision & Adm. 15%                      1.40             -               14Q0              200             -               200               -
Sub-total                                          7,600          1,400            9,000            1,100            200           1,300               15
C. FORCE ACCOUNT EQUIPMENT!/                                  700          6,200             6,900             100             900           1,000               90
D. HYDRO-METEOROLOGICAL STUDIES
Project Personnel                                         700            -                 700             100             -               100               -
Consulting Services                                       300            400               700              40              60             100               60
Equipment, Supplies and Materials                          200            700              900              25             100             125               80
Physical Contingencies 25%                                200             300              500              35              40              75               53
Sub-total                                          1, 400         1,400            2,800              200            200              400              50
E. WATERSNED PROTECTION
Project Personnel                                       2,100             -              2,100             300             -               300               -
Civil Works                                             1,400             300            1,700             200              50             250               20
Equipnent, Supplies and Materials                         300             700            1,000               50            100             150               67
Physical Contingencies 25%                              1,000             400            14Q0              150              50             200               25
Sub-total                                          4,800          1,400            6,200              700            200              900               22
SUB-TOTAL ITEMS A - E                                  Sl,700          24,200           75,900            7,500          3,500          11,000               32
Expected Price Increase 3/                             24,800           9,000           34,500            3,600                           490                 27
TOTAL COST                                        76_500         33,200          1 10400           11.100          4,800           15,90                30
1/ Excludes cost of force account equipment
2/ To be used for operation and msaintenance after completion of construction
5/ Expected price increases based on the following rates of inflation per annum:
Civil Works    Equipmlent and Other Services
1975            167,                   12%
1976-80         14%                    107,
1977-79         12%                     8Z
1980            10-/                    7



ANNEX 8
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROADS AND CALAPAN PORT
Foreign
Local         Foreign         Total              Local         Foreign         Total            Exchange
----------(Pesos '000) -----------               ---------(US$ 'OoO)__________
1. ROADS
A. CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT
National Highways (150 km)                     26,900         32,400          59,300            3,900           4,700          8,600               55
Provincial Roads
(a) Contract (203 km)                        13,800        16,600          30,400             2,000          2,400          4,400               55
(b) Force Account 1/ (77 km)                4!800           4,200           9,000               700            600          1,300               45
Sub-total                                45,500        53,200          98,700             6,600          7,700         14,300               54
B. DETAILED ENGINEERING & SUPERVISION               9,700          -              9,700             1,400           -             1,400               -
C. HIGHWAY ENGINEER                                   200           800           1,000                30            120            150               80
D. CONSULTING SERVICES                                700         3,800           4,500               100            550            650               85
E. PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT 2/                        700         4.800           5,500               100            700            800               87
Sub-total  A-E                           56,800        62,600         119,400             8230           9,070         17.300
F. CONTINGENCIES
(a) Physical 107,                             5,600         6,200          11,800               800            900           1,700
(b) Expected Price Increases 3/              24.800        30-40           55,200             3.600          4.400           8.000
Sub-total F                              30,400        36.600          67,000             4,400          5X300          9,700
TOTAL - ROADS 4/                         87.200        99.200         182630                            14,3      70                        53
2. CALAPAN PORT
A. REHABILITATION & UPGRADING OF PIER                 200           200             400                25             25              50              50
B. NEW FENDERING                                      100           300             400                15             45              60              75
C. LAND RECLAMATION                                   300           200             500                40             30             70               43
D. PASENGER FACILITIES                                300           300             600             _40               40              80              50
Sub-total A-D                               900         1,000           1,900               120            140             260              54
E. DESIGN & SUPERVISION                               200          -                200                30            -                30              -
Sub-total A-E                             1,100         1,000           2,100               150            140             290              48
F. CONTINGENCIES
(a) Physical 20%                                200           200             400                30             30              60
(b) Expected Price Increases 3/                 200           200              400               25             25              50
Sub-total F                                 400           400             800                55             55            110
TdTAL - CALAPAN FORT                      1,500         1.400           2.900               205            195             400              50
TOTAL COSTS - ROADS & CALAPAN PORT 4/         ~88700        100 600          1.89300           12.835          14.562         27 400               53
1/ Excludes cost of force account equipment.
2/ To be used for road maintenance after completion of cons truction.
3/ Expected price increases based on the following rates of inflation per annum:-
Civil Works   Equipment & Other
1975              16%,              12%
1976              1 4%               10%
1977-1979         12%                 8%
4/ Excludes Right-of-Way Costs for roads amouunting to about US$200,000 to be financed wholly by Government.
Source: DPH/Mission.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Program
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local          Foreign         Total              Local           Foreign         Total            Exchange
A.CET E   S---(Pesos '000) ----------             ------------(Us$ '000) ---------                    %
A. CERTIFIED SEED PRODUCTIONi
Project Personnel                                    600              -             600                 80               -              80
Builings                                             100              -             100                  20              -              20               -
Equipment, Supplies & Materials                      200              200           400                  30              30             60               50
Sub-total                                   go0              200         1,100                 130              30            160               19
Physical Contingencies 25%                           200              100           300                  30              10             40               25
Sub-total                                 1,loO              300         1,400                 160              40            200               20
B.  RAT CONTROL
Project Personnel                                  2,100              -           2,100                 300              -             300                -
Equipment, Supplies and Materials                  6.900            5,500        12,400               1,000             800          1,800                44
Sub-total                                 9,000            5,500        14,500              1,300              800          2,100                38
Physical Contingencies 15%                         1.200              900         2,100                 175             125            300                42
Sub-total                                10,200            6,400        16,600               1,475             925          2,400                39
SUB-TOTAL ITEMS A - B                             11,300            6,700        18,000               1,635             965          2,600                37
Expected Price Increases  1/                       4,500            2,300          6.800                665             335          1,000                34
TOTAL COST                               15,800            9.000        24 _800            _2_300           1300           _3,600                36
w co
1/ Expected price increases based on the following rates of inflation per annum:
Equipment and Other
1975                12%
1976                10%
1977-79              8%
1980                 7i



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schistosomiasis Control
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local         Foreign         Total             Local         Foreign          Total           Exchange
-------  (Pesos '000)                              _______--- (US$ '000)-------
A. HEALTH EDUCATION                                    100            -100                               10             -              10               -
B. ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
Water-seal Toilets                                  400            -              400                 60             -              60               -
Domestic Water Supply                            1,200             800          2,000               180             120            300               40
Foot Bridges                                        200            -              200                 30            -               30               -
Sub-total                                   1,900            800          2,700                280            120             400              30
C. DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT                             400            600          1,000                 60             90            150               60
D. SNAIL CONTROL
Agro-Engineering                                  3,600            200          3,800                520             30            550                5
Mollusiciciding                                     500          1,200          1.700                 70            180            250               72
Sub-total                                   4,100          1,400          5,500                590             210            800              26
E. EQUIPMENT. SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS 1/                100            600            700                 20             80             100              80
SUB-TOTAL ITEMS A - E                            6,500           3,400          9,900                950            500          1,450               34
Physical Contingencies 25%                        1,600            900          2,500                240            120             360              33
Expected Price Increases  /                       3.300          1.500          4-800                480            210             690              30
TOTAL COST                                 11,400           5,800         17,200             1,670             830          2,500               33
1/  Itemized list to be reviewed by the Bank.
2/ Expected price increases based on the following rates of inflation per annum:
Civil Works   Equipment and Other
1975              16%                 12%
1976              14%                 10%
1977-79           12%                  8%
1980              10%                  7%



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mangyan Assistance
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   Total       Exchange
------(Pesos '000)                   (s--  -------    'ooo) --
Project Personnel                    1,000      -       1,000       140        -       140            -
Equipment, aipplies & Materials -/   1,000       800    1,800       140       120      260           40
Sub-total                 2,000       800    2,800        280      120       400           25
Physical Contingencies 25%             500       200      700        70        30      100           30
Sub-total                 2,500    1,000    3,500         350      150       500          30
Expected Price Increases2/             500       200      700        70        30      100           30
Total Cost                 3,000    1,200    4,200        420       180      600           30
1/ Itemized list to be reviewed by the Bank.
2/ Expected price increases based on the following rates of inflation per annum:
Equipment and Other
1975                   12%
1976                  10%                                                                                OD
1977-79                8%
1980                   7%



ANNEX 9
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Control
Equipment List
Unit
Quantity       Cost        Total Cost
(US$ )         (US$ )
A. NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEKS 1/
Tractor, Crawler 140 hp                      1         56,000          56,ooo
Tractor, Crawler 90 hp                       2         29,000          58,000
Crane, Crawler 18T with 3/4 cuyd bucket      1         72,000          72,000
Tractor, Industrial w/backhoe-loader         2         20,000          40,000
Loader, Wheeled 1 cuyd                      2         29,000          58,000
Roller, Vibrating 15T w/tractor 50 hp        1         25,ooo          25,000
Grader, Motorized 125 hp                     1          41,000         41,000
Truck, Water                                 1         16,000          16,000
Truck, Dump 6 cuyd                           4         14,000          56,ooo
Truck, Stake                                 1         12,000          12,000
Truck, Tractor (w/25T trailer)               1         44,000          44,000
Truck, Mobile repair and lubrication         1         30,000          30,000
Mixer Concrete 1 cuyd                        4          12,000         48,ooo
Vibrator, Concrete                           4           1,000          4,000
Pmp, Water 4 in                              2          1,000           2,000
Truwek, Pickup 3/4T 4 x 4                    2           8,ooo         16,000
Jeep, Wagon. 4 x 4                           1          8,500           8,500
Jeep, 4 x 4                                  5          7,500          37,500
Radio Transceiver (singie side band)         2          3,000           6,ooo
Miscellaneous Eq,uipment
(Compressor, Welder, Tools) Lump Sum                                  40,000
Spare Parts 20%                                                       130,5000
Sub-Total                                                        800,000
B. CWUJNAL IRRIGATION SYST&KS 1/
Lump am c/                                                     -      200,000
C. HYDRO-METEOROLOGICAL STUDIES
Jeep 4 x 4                                   4           7,500         30,000
Survey and Hydrometric Equipment, Lump Sum                             70,000
Sub-total                                                        100,000
D. WATERSHED PROTECTION
Jeep 4 x 4                                   2           7,500         15,000
Truck, Pickup 2T                             3           8,300         25,000
Field & survey Equipment, Lump Sun 2/                                  20,000
Sub-total                                                         60,ooo
TOTAL                                                          1,160,000
1/ For use by National Irrigation Administration for force account construction and
afterward for operation and maintenance.
2/ Itemized list to be reviewed by the Bank.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOFfENT PROJECT
Roads
Equipment List
Unit
Item                           Quantity       Cost      Total Cost
(US$ )
1-3/4 cuyd front end loader               2         33,500         67,000
Grader, Motorized 125 hp                  2         41,000         82,000
Roller, 5-8 T                             2         25,ooo         50,000
Tractor, Crawler 140 hp                   1         56,ooo         56,ooo
Roller, Sheep foot 5-8 T                  1          5,000          5,000
Truck, Dump 4 cuyd                       10         13,200        132,000
Truck, Pickup 3/4 T                       8          4,500         36,000
Jeep, 4 x 4                               2          7,500         15,000
Mixer, Concrete 7 cuft                     2         3,000          6,000
Vibrator, Concrete                         2         1,000          2,000
Compresor, Air 400 cfm                    1         23,000        23,000
Lubricator, Mobile                        1         13,000         13,000
Crushing and Screening Plant (25 T/hr)   1          81,000        81,000
Workshop Tools and Equipment               1 set                   50,000
Spare Parts 15%                                                    82,000
TOTAL                                                        7002000



ANNEX 9
Table 3-
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Program
Equipment List
Unit
Item                        Quantity      Cost     Total Cost
(US$ )      (US$
A. CERTIFIED SEED PRODUCTION
Motorcycle                          10        1,000       10,000
Seed Testing Equipment              2 sets  10,000        20,000
Office Supplies, Lump Sum                                 10,000
Sub-total                                               40h,000
B. RAT CONTROL
Jeep, 4 x 4                         2         7,500       15,000
Truck, Pickup 3/4T 4 x 4           10         8,000       80,000
Motorcycles                         40        1,000       40O,000
Rodenticides, Lump Sum                                   625,000
Sub-total                                              760,000
TOTAL                                                  800,000



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Total
Item                  Cost       FY 76-"    FY 77         FY 78       FY 79       FY 80
------------------------(US$ '000)-
Water Control                  11,000       1,200       3,570        3,970       1,930         33n
Roads and Ports                19,350       3,440       5,150        5,150       5,610         -
Agricultural Program            2,600         600          470         490         510         530
Schistosomiasis Control         1,810          20          310         680         560         240
Mangyan Assistance                500          30          160         150          80          80
Sub-Total                 35,260       5,290       9,660       10,440       8,690      1.180
Expected Price Increases       14.740         690        2,910       4700        5.520         920
Total Project Cost        50,000       5,980       125705140
1/ IBRD Fiscal Years
El
{D X.
0 



ANNEX 10
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                      Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                           US$ '000 Equivalent
Fiscal Year 1976
2nd                                         200
Fiscal Year 1977
1st                                       1,200
2nd                                       4,200
Fiscal Year 1978
1st                                       7,700
2nd                                      11,400
Fiscal Year 1979
1st                                      15,400
2nd                                      18,400
Fiscal Year 1980
1st                                      20,900
2nd                                      22, 800
Fiscal Year 1981
lst                                      24,100
2nd                                      25,000



ANNEX 10
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Cost                 Proposed
Total        Foreign        Loan
Base     With Price
Category                                                               Increases
-(US$ million)------------------
I.   Civil Works:  1/
(a)  Water Control  2/                                   6.7        11.2            2.9
(b)  Roads                                              14.3        21.4          11.3
(c)  Calapan Port                                        0.2         0.3           0.2          18.4*
(d)  Agricultural Program  3/                            0.4         0.6            -
(e)  Schistosomiasis Control                             1.4         2.0           0.6
(f)  Mangyan Assistance                                  0.1         0.2           -
Sub-Total                                       23.1       35.7           15.0
* Of which (a) US$1.2 million for mobilization and contractors'equipment on the national irrigation
systems, and (b) US$17.2 million for other civil works.  Disbursement for (a) will be 100% of
foreign expenditures and for (b) 50% of total expenditures.
II.  Equipment & Supplies:
(a)  Water Control  4/                                   1.3         1.7           1.3
(b)  Roads                                               0.8         1.3           1.1
(c)  Agricultural Program  5/                            1.9         2.7            1.2           3.8
(d)  Schistosomiasis Control                             0.1         0.1           0.1
(e)  Mangyan Assistance                                  0.3         0.3           0.1
Sub-Total                                        4.4        6.1            3.8
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, 100% of
expenditure (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipuent and 65% of total expenditure for
imported equipment procured locally.
III. Consultants & Technical Assistance
(a)  Water Control  6/                                   0.1         0.1           0.1
(b)  Roads  7/                                           0.8         1.3           1.0           1.1
Sub-Total                                        0.9        1.4            1.1
Disbursement will be 100% of foreign expenditures or 60% of total expenditures.
IV. Unallocated:
Physical Contingencies  8/                                           4.3            1.7           1.7
(Engineering & Administration)  9/                                  (2.5)          -
TOTAL                                                      50.0           21.6          25.0
1/   Includes all costs other than equipment and supplies, shown in Cat.I1, consultants and technical
assistance, shown in Cat.III, and physical contingencies shown in Cat.IV. All figures include
expected price increases, except in Cat.IV.
2/   Includes costs of: NIA systems (US$8.6 million), Communal systems (US$1.5 million), Hydro-met studies
(US$0.2 million) and Watershed protection (US$0.9 million).
3/   Includes costs of: Seed prodgution (US$0.2 million) and Rat control (US$0.4 million).
4/   Includes costs of: NIA systems (U551.3 million), Hydro-met studie  (US$0.2 million) and Watershed
protection (US$0.2 million).
5/   Includes costs of: Seed production (US$0.1 million) and Rat control (US$2.6 million).
6/   Includes costs of Hydro-met studies (US$0.1 million).
7/   Includes costs of: Road consultants (US$1.0 million) and Technical assistance (US$0.3 million).
8/   See Annex 8, Tables 1,2,3,4 and 5.
9/   Includes cost of: NIA and Communal systems (US$1.1 million) and Roads and Calapan port (US$1.4 million).



ANNEX 11
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production and Farm Budgets
Areas
1.        Since paddy is by far the most important crop in Mindoro, most
agricultural activities under the project would be directed towards the
paddy producing areas to increase output and the incomes of small farmers.
With the project there would be three different categories of land under
paddy:
(a) improved national irrigation systems (12,000 ha), which
would be served by Water Management Technologists, improved
extension, rat control, certified seeds and Masagana 99
supervised credit in addition to improvements in physical
facilities;
(b) improved communal irrigation systems (3,000 ha) which would
receive improved extension, rat control, certified seeds and
Masagana 99 supervised credit in addition to improvements
in physical facilities; and
(c) unimproved communal irrigation systems and rainfed areas
(75,000 ha), all of which would receive improved extension,
rat control and inputs, and 35% of which would be covered
by Masagana 99 supervised credit.
Value of Production
2.        Table 1 shows present yields, total paddy production, gross and
net value of production and the net return to the project area without
accounting for labor costs, at economic prices. Table 2 gives the same
information for future conditions with the project. It is assumed that
full development yields would be achieved five years after the introduction
of improved water control in the improved irrigated areas, and five years
after initiation of the various proposed improvements in the remaining
areas.
Production Costs and Labor Requirements
3.        Table 3 shows production costs and labor requirements under
present and future conditions with the project. Present costs are based
on a farm management survey carried out by the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics in 1973 and interviews during preparation and appraisal. The



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
input levels for future conditions with the project in the improved
irrigated areas are based on recommendations by the Bureau of Soils and
Bureau of Plant Industry. Farmers in the remaining areas are assumed to
use proportionally fewer inputs and improved practices.
Crop Budgets
4.        Table 4 shows crop budgets based on financial prices for present
and future conditions with the project.
Farm Budgets
5.        Table 5 shows farm budgets for typical family farms of 2.0 ha
in Oriental Mindoro. Table 6 presents farm budgets for typical 3.0 ha
irrigated and 5.0 ha rainfed paddy farms in Occidental Mindoro. The
budgets are calculated on a cash flow basis and only hired labor has been
costed. The requirement for hired labor was calculated by comparing the
monthly labor requirement with the availability per farm of a maximum
of 40 man-days/month of family labor. Future water charges for farmers
in areas served by the national irrigation systems are at the level which
NIA has agreed would be applied to the Bank-assisted Pampanga, Penaranda
and Tarlac projects at full development, namely 3.5 cavans of paddy/ha
in the wet season and 4.4 cavans/ha in the dry season. Water charges on
communal irrigation systems improved under the project are assumed to be
at half these rates. Farmers on unimproved systems currently do not pay
water charges, and this practice is assumed to continue.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value of Paddy Production at Present
Farm Gate /     Gross Value   Production-/   Net Value -/   Net Return to-/
Area     Yield      Production       Price          Production       Costs         Production      Project Area
(ha)    (ton/ha)   (t000 tons)   (P/ton)            ------------------ (P/ha) ------------         (P Million)
National Irrigation Systems (12,000 ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated                     6,000      2.5          15.0         1,995             4,990         1,270           3,720             22.3
Rainfed                       6,000      1.6           9.6         1,995             3,190           900           2,290             13.7
Dry Season
Irrigated                     3,900      2.6           10.1        1,995             5,185         1,335           3,850              15.0
Rainfed                       5,700      1.3           7.4         1,995             2,595           810           1,785              10.2
Sub-total                    21,60                     42.1                                                                           61.2
(1807)
Improved Communal Irrigation
Systems (3,000 ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated                    1,000      2.0            2.0        1,995             3,990         1,110           2,880               2.9
Rainfed                      2,000      1.6            3.2        1,995             3,190           900           2,290               4.6
Dry Season
Irrigated                      500      2.2            1.1        1,995             4,390         1,195            3,195              1.6
Rainfed                      1,500      1.3            2.0        1,995             2,595           810           1,785               2.7
Sub-total                    5,000                     8.3                                                                           11.8
(167%)
Unimproved Communal Irrigation
Systems and Rainfed Areas (75,000 ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated                    18,000      2.0           36.0        1,995              3,990         1,110           2,880             51.8
Rainfed                      57,000      1.6           91.2        1,995              3,190           900           2,290            130.5
Dry Season
Irrigated                     8,500      2.2           18.7        1,995             4,390          1,195           3,195             27.2
Rainfed                      29,500      1.3           38.4        1,995              2,595           810           1,785             52.7
Sub-total                   113,000                   184.3                                                                          262.2
(150%)
TOTAL                  139,600                  234.7                                                                           335.2
(155%)
1/  From Annex 12, Table  3.
2/  From Table 3.  Excludes labor cost.
3/ Without accounting for labor cost.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value of Paddy Production with the Project at Full Development
Farm                     2/                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Net Re-turn 3/
Farm Gate-/  Gross Value of  Productionr-    Net Value of3/              to
Area    Yield    Production    Price           Production         Costs          Production        Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)     (tons)     (P/ton)       -----------------(P/ha)--------------------            (P million)
National Irrigation Systems (12,000 ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated                         12,000    3.7          44.4        1,015           3,755            1,110            2,645              31.7
Dry Season
Irrigated                         12,000    4.0           48.0       1,015           4,060            1,160             2,900              34.8
Sub-total                         24,000                  92.4                                                                            66,5
(2007)
Improved Communal Irrigation
Systems (3,000 ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated                          3,000    3.3            9.9       1,015           3,350            1,070             2,280               6.8
Dry Season
Irrigated                          3,000    3.5           10.5       1,015           3,550            1,110             2,440               7.3
Sub-total                          6,000                  20.4                                                                             14.1
(200%)
Unimproved Communal Irrigation Systems
and Rainfed Areas (75,000 ha)
Wet Season
Irrigated                         18,000    2.6           46.8       1,015           2,640              770             1,870              33.7
Rainfed                           57,000    1.9          108.3       1,015           1,930              640             1,290              73.5
Dry Season
Irrigated                          8,500    2.8           23.8       1,015           2,840              800             2,040              17.3
Rainfed                           29,500    1.6           47.2       1,015           1,625              610             1,015              29.9
Sub-total                        113,000                 226.1                                                                            154.4
(150%)
TOTAL                        143,                     338.9                                                                            235.0
(159%)
1/  From Annex 12, Table 3
2/  From Table 3.  Excludes labor cost.
3/  Without accounting for labor cost.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Production Costs I1
National Trrigation Systems -                                      Improved Communal Irrigation Systems-
Present                      Future with Project                           Present                         Future with Proiect
Wet Season             Dry Season          Wet Season   Dry Season         Wet Season                Dry Season          Wet Season  Dry Season
Rainfed  Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated        Irrigate(      Irrigated    Rainfed   Irrigated    Rainfed   Irrigated                      Trrigated
Cash Inputs (P/ha)
Cultivation              120         120        120          120           140            140         120         120         120          120           140             140
Seed                     125(65)    125(65)   125(65)        125(65)        65             65         125(65)    125(65)    125(65)        125(65)        65              65
Fertilizer               125(80)    200(130)  125(80)        225(150)      225            225         125(80)    200(130)   125(80)        225(150)       225            225
Agro-che.icals             30         50         30           60           250            260          30          40          30           40            250            260
Harvesting               480(240)   750(375)  390(195)    780(390)         370            400         480(240)   600(300)   390(195)    660(330)          330            350
Other                     20          25         20           25            60             70          20          25          20           25             60             70
Interest                     (30)        (40)       (25)        (45)           (60)          (65)        (30)        (35)        (25)          (40)          (55)      -    (t)
Total Cash Inputs        900(585) 1.270(805)  810(535)  1.335(855)   1,110(1,170) 1,160(1,225) 900(585) 1,110(715)   810(535)  1,195(770)   1,070(1,125)  1,110(1,170)
Labor Isputs (mandays/ha)
Land Preparation           30         30         30           30             25            25          30          30          30           30             25             25
Planting                  32          32         32           32             32            32          32          32          32            32            32             32
Crop Management            13         20         15           20             38            45          13          20          13           20             33             40
Harvesting                 35         38         33           38             30            33          35          38          30           38             30             33
Total Labor Inputs       110         120        110          120            125           135         110         120         105          120            120            130
Unimproved Communal Irrigation Systems and Rainfed Areas
Future with Project
Wet Season                  Dry Season
Present    Rainfed   Irrigated         Rainfed    Irrigated
Cash Inputs (P/ha)
Cultivation                           140         140             140          140
Seed                                    60          60             60           60
Fertilizer                             100         150            100          150
Agro-che,icals                         125         130            125          130
Harvesting                   a         190         260            160          280
Other                        0          25          30             25           40
Interest                                  (35)        (40)           (35)         (45)
Total Cash Inputs                      640(675)   770(810)        610(645)    800(845)
> z
Labor Inputs (mandays/ha)          c
Land Preparation                        27          27             27           27
Planting        4            =          32          32             32           32
Crop Management-             a a        23          33             23           33
Harvesting                              33          33             33           33
Total Labor Inputs                     115         125            115          125
1/ Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis. Figures in parentheses are financial prices prevailing at
appraisal for use in farm budgets. Costa at present are higher than in future because world market prices for rice (seed) and fertilizers are forecdst to
fall (at 1975 constant prices) and because threshing, which is now done almost entirely by hand on a crop-sharing basis, is expected to become increasingly
mechanized, with or without the project.
2/  Based on the following assumptions at full development:
(a)  Cultivation  -  mechanical 50% @ P165/ha
-  animal  50% @ P 110/ha
(b)  Seed Rate    -  1 cavan/ha @ P 65/cavan
(c)  Fertilizer - asmophos 150 kg/ha @ P 0.80/kg
- asmosul 50 kg/ha @ P 0.70/kg
- urea 50 kg/ha @ P 1.40/kg
(d)  Agro-chemicals - lump sum.
(e)  Harvesting - 50% mechanical threshing @ 5% of yield value, 50% hand threshing @ 15% of yield value
(f)  Interest @ 12% per year on production credit for 6 montha on 907% of cash inputs.                                                                                             us -
3/ Excluding labor handling farm machinery, the cost of which is included under cash inputs.
4/ Including 15 mandays/ha/yr for rat control with the project.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rice Crop Budgets  /
National Irrigation Systems                                      Improved Communal Irrigation Systems
Present                      Future with Project                        Present                       Future with Project
Wet Season              Dry Season        Wet Season  Dry Season         Wet Season              Dry Season        Wet Season  Dry Season
Rainfed  Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated   Irrigated   Irrigated    Rainfed  Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated   Irrigated   Irrigated
Yield (ton/ha)                           1.6        2.5         1.3       2.6          3.7          4.0           1.6       2.0          1.3        2.2          3.3          3.5
Farm Gate Price (P/ton)                1,000    1.000         1,000      1,000        1,000*       1,000*       1,000      1,000       1,000      1,000        1,000*        1,000*
Gross Value of Production (P/ha)        1,600     2,500       1,300      2,600        3,700        4,000         1,600     2,000        1,300      2,200        3,300        3,500
Production Costs Excluding Labor          585       805         535        855        1,170        1,225           585       715          535        770        1,125        1,170
(P/ha)
Net Value of Production Excluding    1,015        1,695         765      1,745        2,530        2,775        1,015      1,285          765     1,430         2,175        2,330
Labor (P/ha)
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)          110        120        110        120          120           125          110       120          105        120          115          120
Unimproved Communal Irrigation Systems and Rainfed Areas
Future with Project
Wet Season             Dry Season
Present       Rainfed  Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated
Yield (ton/ha)                                           1.9        2.6         1.6        2.8
Farm Gate Price (P/ton)                    >            1,000*    1,000*       1,000*    1,000*
Gross Value of Production (P/ha)           $ 4          1,900      2,600       1,600      2,800
Production Costs Excluding Labor           N - 4          675        810         645        845
(P/ha)           
Net Value of Production Excluding          M 0          1,225      1,790         955      1,955
Labor (P/ha)                            g  
Labor Requirements (mandays/ha)               o           110        115         105        120
1/  Based on financial prices from Annex 12, Table 3.
*   Rounded from P 1,01S.                                                                                                                                                               ! -



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
2.0 ha Farm, Oriental Mindoro
Unimproved Communal Irrigation
National Irrigation Systems       Improved Communal Systems                Systems & Rainfed Areas
Present           Future          Present           Future            Present               Future
Unit  Rainfed  Irrigated   Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated   Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated
Transplanted Rice               ha      3.6       3.6          4.0         3.6       3.6          4.0                               3.6        3.6
Total Cropped Area              ha      3.6       3.6          4.0        3.6        3.6          4.0                               3.6        3.6
Cropping Intensity              %        180       180          200         180       180          200                               180        180
Total Paddy Production-    /   ton    5.3         9.2         15.4         5.3       7.5         13.6                               6.4        9.7
Gross Value of PTduction l    p        5,300     9,200       15,400       5,300     7,500       13,600                             6,400      9,700
Production Costs-               p     2,025      2,980        4,790       2,025     2,660        4,590                             2,380      2,970
(excluding labor)                                                                                               w
Cost of Hired Farm Laborl/      P        350       250          745         350       250          650              o                355        300
Net Value of Production         P      2,925     5,970        9,865       2,925     4,590        8,360              t c            3,665      6,430
(before Wa Pr Charges)               _                                                                            'I
Water Charges-                  P        -          105          700        -         -            350              X                 -         -
Net Crop Income                 p      2,925     5,865        9,165       2,925     4,590        8,010                             3,665      6,430
(after Water Charges)
Farm Labor Requirement          P        396       432          520        388        432          500                               414        450
(mandays)                                                                                                                                              >
1/  Based on Table 4.
2/  Based on maximum of 40 mandays/month of family labor.  Hired labor costed @ P 6/manday.
3/ For national irrigation systems, based on present charges of P 25/ha in the wet season and P 35/ha in the dry season, and future
charges of P 175/ha in the wet season and P 220/ha in the dry season. For communal systems, based on no charges at present and
future charges at half the rates on the national systems for improved systems only.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Budgets
Occidental Mindoro
Improved Communal               Unimproved Communal Irrigation
Irrigation Systems                    Systems and Rainfed Areas
Present         Future            Present                Future
Unit   Rainfed  Irrigated   Irrigated    Rainfed  Irrigated   Rainfed  Irrigated
(5.0 ha)  (3.0 ha)    (3.0 ha)                            (5.0 ha)  (3.0 ha)
5.0 ha
Transplanted Rice             ha       5.0       4.8          6.0         r                      5.0       4.8
Total Cropped Area            ha      5.0        4.8          6.0                                5.0       4.8
Cropping Intensity    1       %         100       160          200                                100        160
Total Paddy Production-       ton      8.0      10.0         20.4            .                   9.5       12.8
Gross Value of Pductionl/  P          8,000    10,000       20,400           0                  9,500    12,800
Production Costs-             P      3,510      3,530        6,885           0 )                3,375     3,950
(excluding labor)    2                                                  > 
Cost of Hired Farm Labor_/   P        1,530       930        2,015         "m                   1,620     1,010
Net Value of Production       P       2,960     5,540       11,500                              4,505      7,840
(before Water Charges)                                                 co 4
Water Chargesi/               P         -         -            590         o 0                    -          -
Net Crop Income               P       2,960     5,540       10,910                              4,505      7,840
(after Water Charges)                                                  m
Farm Labor Requirement        P         550       576          750                                575        600
(mandays)
1/  Based on Table 4.                                                                                                s 
2/  Based on maximum of 40 mandays/month of family labor.  Hired labor costed @ P 6/manday.
3/  Based on no charges at present and future charges at half the rates on the national systems                       X
for improved systems only.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
RIURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
Economic Anapysis
Calapan-Roxas City National H_ghway
1.        Traffic.  Traffic surveys carried out by the Department of Public
Highways in October 1973, adjusted for seasonal variations, indicate present
average traffic volumes varying from about 900 vehicles per day (vpd) on the
Calapan-Victoria section to 250 vpd on the Bongabong river-Roxas City section.
Traffic is predicted to build up to between 3,400 vpd and 1,000 vpd by 1994,
at rates of 5-8% per year for different road sections in different periods
(Table 1).
2.        Benefits.  The construction and improvement of the road would
reduce transportation costs by reducing vehicle operating costs and saving
passenger travel time. The annual savings in road maintenance costs would
be about US$120,000 at completion of construction, rising to US$135,000
after 16 years (Table 2).
3.        Rate of Return.  Discounting project benefits and costs over a
20 year evaluation period, the economic rate of return is estimated to be
18% with passenger time savings and 14% without time savings (Table 2).
Provincial Roads, Irrigation and Agricultural Program
4.        Benefits.  Benefits were estimated from increased paddy production
only, although there would also be improvements to upland rice, corn, coco-
nut and other crops. The expected padldy yields, production costs and labor
requirements per ha are shown in Annex 11. Future yields without the proj-
ect assume a 1% average annual increase from 1975 to 1985. Farm gate prices
for paddy and fertilizers used in the economic analysis are based on the
Bank's world market price forecasts for milled rice and urea and are derived
in Table 3. Although theoretically the farm gate prices of agricultural
outputs would be increased and the prices of inputs decreased as a result of
the improved national and provincial road network, data limitations did not
permit this refinement, and farm gate prices are assumed to be the same in
future with and without the project. Table 4 shows the expected project
benefits at full agricultural development.
5.        Costs.  In evaluating the production aspects of the project, the
area was divided into three parts - national irrigation systems (12,000
ha), improved communal irrigation systems (3,000 ha) and unimproved com-
munal irrigation systems and rainfed areas (75,000 ha). TnveFt'nent, oper-
ation and maintenance costs have been included for the improved irrigation



ANNEX 12
Page  2
systems.  The construction costs of the provincial roads (290 km) 1/ have
been prorated by the areas served.  Road maintenance cost savings have not
been taken into account. The costs of the agricultural program have also
been prorated on an area basis, and are assumed to continue throughout the
evaluation period. All costs include physical contingencies but not costs
due to expected price increases.
6.        Development Period.  Project benefits would begin with completion
of improvements to irrigation systems or implementation of the agricultural
program in areas not receiving improved water control. According to the
project implementation schedule, the first improved area in the national
irrigation systems would come under production in the 1977 dry season and
the entire area would be completed in time for the 1979 wet season crop.
The first improved area in the communal irrigation systems would come under
production in the 1978 dry season and the entire area would be completed
in time for the 1980 wet season crop. In the remaining areas, the first
improvements from the agricultural program would be available during the
1976 dry season crop, and the whole area would be covered by the end of
1980. It has been assumed that projected yield levels would be achieved
over five years from the introduction of the proposed improvements. Full
project benefits would therefore be achieved in 1984 in the national irri-
gation systems, and 1985 in all other areas.
7.        Farm Labor.  Seasonal underemployment is a major problem on
Mindoro as elsewhere in the Philippines. Improvements to the irrigation
systems would help alleviate the problem by spreading employment opportu-
nities more evenly throughout the year. However, most of the project's
improvements would take place in areas where water control would not be
improved and labor demand would remain highly seasonal. This is particu-
larly true in Occidental Mindoro where only one rice crop can be grown in
most places, and where labor habitually migrates from neighboring islands
during the wet season. Most of the incremental labor demand created by
the project of some 1.6 million man-days or 13,000 seasonal jobs of 120
days each would coincide with periods of relatively full employment at
present. Therefore, all incremental farm labor was costed at the peak
season market wage of P 6/man-day.
8.        Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting
project benefits and costs over a 50 year evaluation period for the national
irrigation systems and a 30 year period for the communal irrigation systems
and rainfed areas, the economic rate of return is estimated to be 24% for
the national irrigation systems, 25% for the improved communal irrigation
systems and 15% for the unimproved communal irrigation systems and rainfed
areas (Table 5).
1/   Including the Calapan-Baco national highway (10 km), which is princi-
pally an agricultural feeder road serving the Baco-Bucayao national
irrigation system.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Sensitivity Analysis
9.        Sensitivity of the rates of return to cost overruns and reductions
and delays in benefits was tested. The results (Table 6) show little sensi-
tivity to the estimates of project costs or the assumptions made concerning
the level and timing of agricultural benefits in the improved irrigated areas.
They show most sensitivity to the level and timing of benefits in the areas
which would not receive improved irrigation, emphasizing the importance of
an effective agricultural extension service and the timely availability of
adequate farm inputs. In none of the cases tested, however, would the rate
of return fall below 10%. On the other hand, if the farm gate price of rice
turns out to be 25% higher than forecast, the rates of return would range
between 18% and 30% for the various irrigation and agricultural improvements.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic Volumes
Cal part-Roxas Cit_ National Highway
Length         Average ,Annual Daily Traffic                 Average Estimate
(Km)   Traffic Counts             Forecast                Traffic Growth (% pa)
1973           1979      1986       L994       1973-79    1979-94
Section 1.  Calapan-Victoria        34          900          1,300      2,100      3,400         7.0         7.0
Section 2.  Victoria-Merritt River 8            500            800      1,300      2,100         8.0         6.5
Section 3.  Merritt-Leuteboro       10          500            800      1,300      2,100         8.0         6.5
Section 4.  Leuteboro-Pinmalayan  21            700          1,100      1,800      3,000         8.0         7.0
Section 5.  Pimnalayan-Bongabong  26            350            500        850      1,400         6.5         7.0
Jct.
Section 6.  Bongabong Jct. -        21          450            600        900      1,300         5.0         5.5
Bongabong River
Section 7.  Bongabong River -       17.5        250            350        600      1,000         6.0         7.5
Roxas City Jet.
Source: DPH
I-.'-
F H



ANNEX 12
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Calapan-Roxas City National Highway
(US$ '000)
Costs                           Benefits
Year            Capital   Maintenance           Operating Cost Savings
Savings             Without            With
Time              Time
1                400             0                 0                 0
2              2,700             0                 0                 0
3              2,700             0                 0                 0
4              1,900             0                 0                 0
5                  0        - 120                945             1,355
6                  0         - 120             1,005             1,435
7                  0        - 125              1,060             1,510
8                  0        - 125              1,120             1,580
9                  0        - 125              1,180             1,685
10                  0         - 125             1,255             1,790
11                  0        - 125              1,320             1,890
12                  0        - 125              1,400             1,995
13                  0        - 125              1,475             2,100
14                  0         - 125             1,555             2,215
15                  0         - 130             1,645             2,340
16                  0        - 130              1,720             2,440
17                  0        - 130              1,835             2,610
18                  0        - 130              1,925             2,740
19                  0         - 130             2,040             2,895
20                  0        - 135              2,150             3,055
Economic Rate of Return:                         14%                18%



ANNEX 12
Table 3
PHILIPPINES
RU'LAL DEV2LOPMENT PROJECT
Price Structure for Rice, 1975 and 1985
(P or US$/ton at constant 1975 prices)
1975                  1985
Rice                                                        P/ton   US$/ton        P/ton   US$/ton
Export price Thai 25%-35% broken fob Bangkok                3,000      435         1,445      210
Ocean freight                                                  310      45            310      45
Manila handling charges                                         35        5            35        5
Transport Calapan-Manila                                      -150     -22          -150      -22
Price of rice ex-mill, Calapan                              3,195      463         1,640      238
Milling costs (equivalent to value of by-products)             -         -            -         -
Paddy equivalent price, Calapan (63% recovery)              2,015      292         1,035      150
Handling & transport costs, farm to mill                       -20       -3           -20       -3
Farm gate price of paddy                                     1,995     289         1,015      147
(Financial farm gate price)                                (1,000)   (145)        (1,015)   (147)
P/cavan               P/cavan
Economic                                            100                     50
(Financial)                                         (50)                   (50)
Urea
Export price fob Europe, bagged                              2,310     335            860     125
Ocean freight                                                  310      45            310       45
Manila handling charges                                         35        5            35        5
Transport Manila-Calapan                                       150      22            150       22
Price of urea, Calapan                                       2,805     407         1,355      197
Handling & transport costs Calapan to farm                      20        3            20        3
Farm gate price of urea                                      2,825     410          1,375     200
(Financial farm gate price)                                (2,300)   (333)        (1,375)   (200)



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full Project Development
Net Return to Project   Incremental   Less Cost of              Incremental
Area Without Costing         Net         Incremental           Net Value of
Farm Labor!/             Return       Farm Labor2/            Production
(P Million)         (P Million)    (P Million)   (P Million)   (US$ '000)
Without         With
Project       Project
National Irrigation Systems           33.5           66.5        33.0             3.9           29.1           4,220
Improved Communal Irrigation           6.5           14.1         7.6             1.2            6.4             930
Systems
Unimproved Communal Irrigation       136.4          154.4        18.0             4.3           13.7           1,990
Systems & Rainfed Areas
1/ With project conditions from Annex 11, Table 2
Without project conditions are based on an assumed 1% average annual increase in yield from 1975 to 1985. Net
returns in future without the project are lower than net returns at present because of the forecast fall in
the world market price of rice.
2/ The difference in total farm labor requirement between "with" and "without" project conditions costed at the
market wage of P6.0 (man-day).
I4.



Teble 5
PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Irrigation, Agricultural Program and Provincial Roads
(us$ '000)
Year                                       Costs                                       Benefits  1/
Irrigation          Provincial  2/       Agricultural  3/
Capital    0 & M           Roads                 Program
National Irrigation
Systems                          1                300          0             200                    0                        e
2             3,400          0             800                   80                        0
3             3,400         70             400                   70                      420
4             1,100        120             200                   70                      840
S                  0       175               0                   70                    1,270
6                  0       175               0                   70                    2,110
7                  0       175               0                   70                    3,380
8                  0       175               0                   70                    3,800
9                  0       175               0                   70                    4,000
10-50               0       175               0                   70                    4,220
Economic Rate of Return: 24%
Improved Communal
Irrigation Systems                1                  0         0             100                    0                        0
2                200         0             100                   20                         0
3                200         0             100                   10                         0
4                400         5               0                   20                        90
5               500         10               0                   20                      190
6                200        15               0                   20                      280
7                  0        20               0                   20                      370
8                  0        20               0                   20                      460
9                  0        20               0                   20                       740
10                  0        20               0                   20                      v40
11-30               0        20               0                   20                      930
Economic Rate of Return: 25%
Unimproved Communal
Irrigation Systems &             1                                           100                    0                        0
Rainfed Areas                    2                                        1,700                   500                      200
3                                       2,000                   390                      400
4                                        2,000                  400                      600
S                                            0                  420                      800
6                                            0                  440                    1,000
7                                            0                  440                    1,190
8                                            0                  440                    1,390
9                                            0                  440                    1,590
10                                            0                  440                    1,790
11-30                                         0                  440                    1,990
Economic Rate of Return: 15%
1, Incremental Net Value of production from Table 4.
2/ Includes the cost of the Calapan-Baco national highway with roads supporting the Baco-Bucayao national irrigation system. Other
provincial roads are prorated on an area basis.  Construction costs only are included on the assumption that actual O&M costs equal 06M cost
savings on the improved roads.
3/ Includes the cost of the certified seed production and rat control programs, prorated on an area basis.



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Unimproved Communal
National Irrigation  Improved Communal   Irrigation Systems
National Highway       Systems         Irrigation Systems   and Rainfed Areas
-------------------------------------- (%)_-------------------------------------
Best estimate-/                           IF                 24                   25                  15
Construction cost increased by 20%        16                 21                   22                  13
Benefits decreased by 25%                 14                 19                   20                  10
Benefits delayed by two years             14                 18                    19                 11
Farm gate price of rice increased by 25%   N/A               30                    32                 18
Excluding passenger time savings          14                 N/A                  N/A                 N/A
1/ From Table 5
>e
0s 






PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1975                   1976                    1977                   1978                    1979              1980
WORK ITEM                       1 Qtr. 2 Qtr. 3 Qtr. 4 Qtr. 1 Qtr. 2 Qtr. 3 Qtr. 4 Qtr. 1 Qtr. 2 Qtr. 3 Qtr. 4 Qtr. 1 Qtr. 2 Qtr. 3 Qtr. 4 Qtr 1 ltr. 2 Qtr. 3 Qtr 4Qtr. 1 Qtr. 2 Qtr.
WATER CONTROL
PLANNING AND DESIGN
ORIENTAL MINDORO
MOBI LIZATI ON
NATIONAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (12,000 HA)
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (2000 HA)                                                                                                                              -
OCCIDENTAL MINDORO
MOBILIZATI ON
COMMUNAL IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (1,000 HA)
HYDRO--METEOROLOGICAL STUDIES                                                                                                                                        -
WATERSHED PROTECTION
ROADS AND PORTS
ROADS
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
PROVINCIAL ROADS
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT
PORTS
CALAPAN PORT IMPROVEMENTS
NOTE: SHADING INDICATES WET SEASON MONTHS
World Bank-9373(2R)



PHILIPPINES
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
NATIONAL ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY
(NEDA)
CABINET COORDINATING
COMMITTEE FOR
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
(CCC)
CENTRAL PROJECT STAFF
STEERING COMMITTEE                                               1. COORDINATION
PROJECT DIRECTOR (CHAIRMAN)             PROJECT                      BUDGET
PROVINCIAL GOVERNORS                    DIRECTOR                     PROCUREMENT
LINE AGENCY REPRESENTATIVES                                          DISBURSEMENT
2. MONITORING
I
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL           PROVINCIAL|
GOVERNOR (CHAIRMAN)                        PROJECT
PROVINCIAL HEADS OF LINE AGENCIES           STAFF
World Bank-9374(2R)



120'30'                                              121 00p 7                       .-.. Ayar  thNP4o
Wofldd aB.,kdiEffiilW1.
SOUTH   LUZON   PHlLIPPINE
CHINA              SEA
SEA
13j30      &                                                                    GoIera                                      M#IDis,j 
B NAINBULA HAI HWAY
C.~ f~p~~.'j                                                                                                              T300
PRO MNIA   IOJDPROJ20                                                                          3         0           e 
'AEI CNO -AND
fmtvF RSi  cE '
MOUNTA23U1S ZONE
NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
-  -- PROVINCIAL BOUNDARY                                                     0        10       20       30        40
KILO0ETERS
IZO3LV                                I~~~~~~~~~~21'00'                                   213






7
L'~~~~~~~~~~~~~   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ORIENTAL MINDORO -_              __
if                   ~~~~~~OCCIDENTAL MINDORO
E   ~ ~ ~~~~:                    OOc
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             .
-'I~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lu
4~~~~~  -  S ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     i 



