Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16179
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1984-CHA)
December 20. 1996
FILE; COPY] 
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit= Yuan (Y)
1987 (appraisal)    $1 = Y 3.72
1988                $1 =Y 3.72
1989                $1 = Y 3.76
1990                $1 = Y 4.78
1991                $1 = Y 5.32
1992                $1 = Y 5.53
1993                $1=Y5.76
1994                $1 = Y 8.60
1995                $1 = Y 8.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                 =      3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km) 2                 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)         =      10.76 square feet (ft2)
I square kilometer (km      =      0.4 square miles (mi)
I hectare (ha) = 0.01 km    =      2.47 acr5s (ac) = 15 mu
I mu                        =      666.7 m = 0.0667 ha
I kilogram (kg)             =      2.2046 pounds (lbs)
I metric ton (mt)           =      2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
8FYP       - Eighth Five-Year Plan
9FYP       - Ninth Five-Year Plan
ADT        - Average Daily Traffic
DF         - Diversion Factor
ERR        - Economic Rate of Return
HPDI       - Highway Planning and Design Institute
ICB        - International Competitive Bidding
ICR        - Implementation Completion Report
MOC        - Ministry of Communications
JPHAB      - Jiangxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau
JPHCHAB  - Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration Bureau
JPTD       - Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department
NBC           Nanchang Bridge Complex
NJH        - Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
NPV        - Net Present Value
NURCB    - Nanchang Urban Rural Construction Bureau
PMS        - Pavement Management System
RDB        - Road Data Bank
SAR        - Staff Appraisal Report
TOR        - Terms of Reference
VOC        - Vehicle Operating Cost
VPD        - Vehicle per Day
Vice President (Acting)    Marianne Haug, EAP
Director                Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief           Richard Scurfield, EA2IN
Staff Member             Otto Raggambi, Consultant, EA2IN



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
*   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~W-1-
CONTENTS
PREFACE ..........................v
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................                         ,           vii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                           ..1
A. Project Objectives and Description    .          .
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                 .        .        2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affe,cting the Project  ..18
D. Project Sustainability        ..19
E. Bank Performance    ..20
F. Borrower Performance    ..24
G. Assessment of Outcome    ..25
H. Future Operation    ..27
I. Key Lessons Learned .27
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .30
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .30
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .31
Table 3: Project Timetable .32
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual.       33
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ....................................... 33
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................................,.34
Table 7: Studies included in Project ...........................................  34
Table 8a: Project Costs ...........................................   35
Table 8b: Project Cost .36
Table 8C: Project Financing ...........................................  37
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................  37
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .38
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .38
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .39
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ................................   39
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION .41
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .65
ANNEX 3, PART 1: THE ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEIMOIRE (JPTD).                        78
ANNEX 3, PART 2: THE ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE (NURCB) .83
MAPS:    1.   Transport Network-Jiangxi Province-I'BRD 20254R
2.   Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway-IBRD 202 67R
3.   Nanchang Bridge-IBRD 20282R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



I
I



-v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIOPN REPORT
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1984-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Jiangxi Provincial
Highway Project in China, for which Credit 1984-CHA, for SDR 44.7 million ($61.0
million equivalent), was approved on February 7, 1989. The last disbursement was on
December 13, 1995 and the credit was closed on December 31, 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Otto Raggambi (Consultant, Highway
Engineer) and Han-Kang Yen (Research Analyst) in the Infrastructure Operations
Division, China and Mongolia Department of the East Asia and Pacific Region of the
World Bank, and reviewed by Messrs. Richard Scurfield, Chief, EA2IN and Yo Kimura,
Project Advisor, EA2DR. The borrower's implementation evaluation summary for the
project is annexed to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began in April 1995, and an ICR mission visited Jiangxi
Province in July 1995. Further consultation was held between provincial and Bank
personnel regarding the preparation of the ICR in Nanchang in April 1996. The ICR is
based on discussions held in the field, materials available in the project file and additional
data provided by the project executing agencies. The agencies providLed the Bank with
copies of their evaluation reports for the highway and bridge components. Also, both
agencies are in the process of preparing manuals for defining the administrative,
managerial and monitoring requirements for the operation of the civil works facilities of
the project.



t



-vii -
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAYe PROJECT
(CREDIT 1984-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Chinese economy, which started accelerating in the early 1980s, greatly
increased road transport demand. To address the proble:m of road transport constraints,
the Chinese Government decided to accord high priority to increasing road capacity on
the heavily trafficked segments of the national and provincial road netwvorks. The Jiangxi
Provincial Highway Project reflects this priority, comibined with the much-needed
transfer of technology to provincial transport departments for design, construction and
construction supervision of high-class highways, and a systematic approach to the
planning and maintenance of the road network.
Project Objectives
2.    The project's primary objectives were to: (a) expand road transport capacity in
the Province's key transport corridor between Nanchaag, the provincial capital, and
Jiujiang, an important inland port city on the Chang River; (b) provide relief to two
heavily congested bridges over the Gan River in Nanchang City by constructing a third
bridge in the southeastern part of the City; (c) help the Province in carrying out surveys
for road condition evaluation and preparing programs for investnment decisions for
improving the condition of the network; and (d) train staff and procure equipment as
means of acquiring technologies.
3.    The objectives reflected the physical and developmental needs of the Province's
highway subsector, the Central Government's development strategy, and the Bank
assistance strategy for the subsector.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The project's key objectives, the construction of a new highway between
Nanchang and Jiujiang and a major bridge in Nanchang City, were achieved, although at
a higher cost than estimated. Also, according to the reevaluated economic rates of return
(ERRs), they were completed with a lower but still acceptable overall yield. With the
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway (NJH), the higher-than-estimated cost of construction was
compensated by higher-than-forecast traffic growth, a cornbination that yielded much the
same ERR in the ICR as in the SAR estimate, i.e., about 30.0 percent. However, the
higher cost and substantially lower-than-estimated traffiFc growth resulted in a much



- viii -
reduced but still satisfactory ERR for the Nanchang Bridge Complex (NBC)-16.6
percent versus 38.0 percent.
5.    Some modifications were made to the scope of civil works, including realignment
of a Connecting Road between the southern end of the NJH and the NBC, construction of
additional interchanges along the route, and widening of the NJH to a four-lane divided
highway, although it was originally designed as a two-lane highway. This latter
modification was made by the Provincial Government, and the second two-lane
carriageway was opened to traffic in early 1996, about three years later than the two-lane
highway. The cost associated with the widening was locally financed. Based on an
assessment made in the ICR, it would appear that the widening of the NJH was somewhat
premature. Nevertheless, it is expected to bring about significant traffic operational
improvements, particularly with respect to road safety. The road safety record of the two-
lane highway was alarmingly poor, as reflected in the very high number of accidents
during the first three years of its operation. The number of accidents is expected to be
substantially reduced with the widening of the highway.
6.    The execution of civil works suffered delays, both in terms of SAR schedules and
the implementation periods stipulated in the contracts. This was caused by the lack of
experience and resources of the contractors, adverse weather conditions and, in the case
of the Nanchang Bridge, the difficulties encountered during the execution of an
innovative but complex design for the main bridge structure. Despite these problems, the
key objective of the project, to provide increased capacity in the heavily trafficked
transport corridor between Nanchang and Jiujiang and across the Gan River in Nanchang
City, was achieved.
7.    The equipment acquired for the maintenance of the project's civil works was
considered appropriate. The procurement of the equipment was somewhat delayed, but
finally accomplished in accordance with the terms of the Development Credit Agreement.
8.    The staff training program was implemented according to its original objective,
but administered within the framework of a Ministry of Communications (MOC)
coordinated training program. Although the cost of training remained within the
estimated amount, only a relatively small number of Jiangxi Provincial Transport
Department (JPTD) and Nanchang Urban and Rural Construction Bureau (NURCB)
personnel participated in the program because of the high per-person cost of training.
The program was designed whereby the training courses were held abroad, some
combined with study tours. While it is difficult to measure the impact of the training,
most of the courses were regarded as beneficial. Nevertheless, as already highlighted in
the ICR for the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project, planning, preparing and executing
future training programs under Bank Group-financed highway projects will need to be
prepared and executed more carefully to ensure that the programs become more effective
and that a larger proportion of the staff will have the opportunity to participate in the
programs.



- ix -
9.    The collection and processing of road condition data within the framework of the
Pavement Management System (PMS) made satisfactory progress. The data output from
the application of the PMS is now being used to guide (lecisions for the distribution of
funds for routine and periodic maintenance of the road network. While the development
of the PMS met the expectations envisaged at the time of project formulation, only
minimal progress has been made on development of the Road Data Bank (RDB) program.
This has also been a concern in some other provinces, despite the commitment of MOC
to promote RDB development nationwide under the Eighth and Ninth Five-Year Plans
[8FYP (1991-95) and 9FYP (1996-2000)].
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Notwithstanding the implementation difficulties, the quality deficiencies and the
delays encountered in the execution of civil works, the project achieved its overall
objectives. The ICR estimates of ERRs, although lower than expected at appraisal,
confirm that the development objectives were achieved and the condition of the civil
works facilities and the benefits emanating from the investments made, as detailed in
Annex 1 of the ICR, are sustainable and are not expected to be exposed to future risks.
11.   The civil works of the project, such as the NJH, the Connecting Road and the
NBC, are maintainable at a satisfactory level with regular maintenance. Further, to help
ensure that the infrastructure components of the project will operate efficiently, JPTD and
NURCB are proceeding with the preparation of manuals for administrative, managerial
and operational directives, which will also outline regular monitoring parameters for key
performance indicators for the operation of the facilities. The PMS program for the
highway network and the traffic monitoring system for the NBC are expected to be
sustained with long-term benefits. Furthermore, the impact of technology transfer
through acquisition of modern equipment and staff training should have a long-term
impact on institutional development.
12.   The following lessons learned are relevant to still ongoing and future Bank
Group-financed highway projects in China:
(a)   The engineering design deficiencies identified during the implementation
of this project, and also those noted in other Bank Group-financed
highway projects, have prompted the Bank to involve design experts in
reviewing key elements of engineering design during its preparatory
phase, in consultation with local insl:itutions responsible for the
preparation of design, a measure that helped improve the quality of design.
(b)   The contractor's experience and available resources were not appropriately
assessed during prequalification, which resulted in implementation delays
and poor workmanship. The deficiencies of the prequalification process
have also been noted under other Bank Group-financed projects.
Although some measures were taken in the early 1 990s to tighten
prequalification procedures, introducing even stricter measures by the



x -
project executing agencies, the Central Government and the Bank are
needed to rectify this deficiency.
(c)    Construction supervision must be strengthened by accelerating the buildup
of local construction supervision entities so they can play a more effective
role in construction supervision. The Bank Group's supervision efforts,
particularly for projects with quality deficiencies, also need to be
intensified.
(d)   One of the issues identified relates to the unrealistic timeframe set for the
completion of highway civil works, which is not commensurate with the
contractors' ability to meet deadlines without the risk of inferior
workmanship. The project executing agencies, the Central Government
and the Bank Group will need to be more alert to this issue.
(e)   Overly optimistic traffic forecasts and high yields were presented in the
SAR as a result of inadequate analysis of urban development plans and
relevant traffic distribution patterns. Such deficiencies have also been
noted in connection with other Bank Group-financed highway projects.
(f)    The alarmingly high number of accidents on the project highway
highlights the urgent need for evolving a comprehensive Road Safety
Strategy for China.
(g)   The staff training program, which incurred relatively high person-month
cost and had limited staff participation, highlighted the need for
formulating more effective training programs under future Bank-financed
highway projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPOWT
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1984-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIOpi ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.   In the early 1980s, the shortage of capacity for all transport modes was recognized
by the Chinese Government as one of the major impediments to accelerated development
of the country's economy. For road transport development, high priority was accorded to
providing adequate capacity in heavily congested corridors of the national and provincial
road networks under the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90) and subsequent Five-Year
Plans. The Bank Group supported such government objectives, as reflected in the Bank
Group's lending strategy for development of the hig]hway subsector. In addition to
financing road improvement components aimed at easing capacity constraints, Bank
Group-financed projects have been promoting policy initiatives and have helped expedite
the transfer of advanced technologies through the provision of equipment and staff
training programs. Moreover, Bank Group-financed projects have also supported the
provincial transport departments through introducing mrethodologies for evaluating road
conditions and applying comprehensive road maintenance management systems to
facilitate the improvement and upgrading of the national and provinicial road networks.
Between 1985 and 1996, the Bank Group approved the financing of another 15 highway
projects as listed in Part II, Table 2 of this report. A PCR was issued for the first
Highway Project in August 1992, and an ICR was issued for the Shaanxi Provincial
Highway Project in June 1996.
2.    The project's primary objective was to provide urgently needed road traffic
capacity expansion in the important transport corridor between the provincial capital of
Nanchang and the inland port of Jiujiang and across the Gan River in Nanchang City.
The eventual capacity constraints of the existing Nanchang-Jiujiang arterial road
(145 km) and the two existing bridges crossing the Gan River were already recognized in
the mid-1970s. The studies carried out concluded that, due to topographic and land use
characteristics along the alignments of the existing roacd between Nanchang and Jiujiang
and the Nanchang City street network, corridor traffic capacity could be best increased by
constructing a highway between Nanchang and Jiujiang, on a new alignment (112.8 km),
and a third bridge over the Gan River in Nanchang City for vehicular as well as
pedestrian and bicycle traffic. In addition to addressing the alleviation of capacity
constraints in this key transport corridor, the project was formulated to include policy,



-2 -
institutional and technology transfer objectives by focusing on road network planning,
pavement strengthening, road maintenance management and staff training needs.
3.    The IDA credit for the Provincial Highway Project was approved by the
Association in February 1989. The scope of the project was in line with investment
priorities for road network development in Jiangxi Province, and was also consistent with
the Central Government's policy and the Bank Group's assistance strategy for
development of the road transport subsector in China.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    Although the objectives of the project were essentially achieved, the
implementation of the project did not progress smoothly. There were implementation
delays and quality deficiencies due, primarily, to the inadequate experience and resources
of the contractors and, to some degree, to the limited experience of the executing agencies
in administering the implementation of a large, technically demanding highway project.
Furthermore, the differences between the level and distribution of traffic estimated at the
time of project formulation and the actual buildup of traffic on the various segments of
the project roads were substantial. Such differences, combined with a greater-than-
expected increase in the cost of construction, adversely affected the estimated economic
rates of return (ERRs). The reevaluated ERR for the NJH differed only marginally from
that of the SAR estimate because the higher cost was compensated for by higher-than-
forecast traffic volumes. However, the reestimated ERR for the NBC was substantially
below SAR estimates due to the combined adverse effects of higher cost and lower-than-
forecast traffic. Moreover, a major conceptual change was made to the scope of the civil
works. This involved the duplication of the two-lane NJH soon after its opening to traffic
in early 1993. This was well ahead of the timing envisaged for the widening at the time
of the project's formulation. The duplication of the NJH had been initiated and executed
by the Province using its own resources.
5.    The project was implemented by two executing agencies. The Jiangxi Provincial
Transport Department (JPTD) was responsible for the NJH component of the project,
while the NBC was executed by the Nanchang Urban Rural Construction Bureau
(NURCB) of the Nanchang Municipal Government. The IDA credit was shared about
evenly between Jiangxi Province and Nanchang Municipality. The key implementation
features of the project components are presented below.
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway (NJH)
6.    The new 112.8-km highway was designed to Class I highway geometric standards
with respect to horizontal and vertical alignments, but only as a Class II two-lane
highway in terms of formation and pavement width. The new highway, which traverses
hilly terrain on a substantial length of its alignment, is 57.5 km shorter than the existing
arterial road. At the time of project appraisal, the existing arterial road was identified as a
low-standard road in poor condition, built to Class III, and over some of its sections, to
Class IV standard. Some segments of the arterial road had excessive grades and poor



-3 -
horizontal alignments. During the last few years, the geometry of some sections of the
road were marginally improved.
7.    Conceptual Changes.  During the implementation of the project, some
interrelated conceptual changes were made to the original scheme of the NJH and its
connection to the NBC:
(a)   At the time of project appraisal, it was expected that the two-lane Class II
highway, together with the existing arterial road, would provide adequate
corridor capacity until 2010. However, Jiangxi Province decided to bring
forward the timing for the widening of the NJH to a four-lane Class I
access-controlled toll highway.   The construction of the second
carriageway started in 1994 and was opened to traffic in January 1996.
The still outstanding works are scheduled for completion by the end of
1996.
(b)   Linked to the decision outlined above, the alignment and the standard for a
Connecting Road between the NJH and the NBC were modified. Instead
of connecting the NJH to the existing road at Jiaoqiao and providing a
6 km two-lane link from a point farther south on the existing road to the
NBC as originally planned, the connection was made to the NBC by a
12 km four-lane divided highway on a direct alignment from the southern
end-point of the NJH, at Jiaoqiao, to the northwestern end of the NBC
(Map 2).
(c)   The NJH was extended at its northern end from Jiujiang (Shilibu) to the
Chang River rail/road bridge by a 12.5 km four-lane highway, to improve
interprovincial connection to Hubei Prov ince.
8.    Engineering Design. The preliminary engineering and feasibility study for the
highway was prepared under the guidance of JPTD by the Jiangxi Transport Planning,
Survey and Design Institute with assistance from other provincial highway agencies and
the Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) of MOC. The design was carried out
by the Second Highway Survey and Design Institute of MOC in Wuhan. The design was
reviewed by a foreign consulting firm engaged under bilateral aid, which made
recommendations for amending some elements of the design. I)espite a seemingly
thorough preparation of the design and technical specifications, the provisions made for
the treatment of shoulders, roadside drainage and slc,pe protection in an environment
known for high incidence of heavy rainfalls and unstable geological conditions were
inadequate. Although the deficiencies were identified and, to some extent, corrected
during implementation, due to budgetary constraints and concern about delaying
implementation, the measures taken only marginally mitigated the adverse effects of the
design deficiencies. Consequently, the two-lane NJH, as built, is substandard in terms of
shoulder and drainage treatments and slope protection.  Shoulders are narrow and
unsealed, roadside drainage channels were not lined over some critical sections of the



-4 -
alignment to protect against erosion adequately, and slope stabilization measures were
less extensive than necessary in such an unstable geological environment.
9.   Implementation and Supervision.  The procurement of two civil works
contracts for NJH was carried out following international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures. Both contracts were awarded to the same local/foreign joint venture. The
principal local contractor was a contracting unit of one of the Central Government
ministries. Although the arrangement between the local and foreign firm was termed a
joint venture, it was a misnomer in the conventional sense, since the foreign firm did not
provide capital or other resources. It was, basically, a technical cooperation agreement in
which the foreign firm mobilized a team of experienced technicians and engineers to take
responsibility for the execution of asphalt-paving works only; the local contractor
provided the plant, equipment and other physical resources, along with preparation of the
road formation for asphalt paving. The compensation of the foreign personnel was based
on person-month fees, which, together with mobilization and accommodation expenses,
represented only about 4.5 percent of the contract amount.
10.   Originally, the construction of the NJH was scheduled to start in June 1989 and be
completed in about 35 months, by mid-May 1992. While construction started with only a
one-month delay under a 36-month contract, it was completed fully only in mid-1993, in
about 48 months. However, the completion of the paving works allowed the opening of
the highway in mid-January 1993. The main reason for the delay was the poor
performance of the principal contractor, which eventually necessitated the mobilization of
work units of the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (JPHAB) to
undertake the construction of about 80 km of subbase and base-course works, and the
laying of the pavement surface course for about a 33 km section of the highway. Because
the principal contractor had no resources to undertake these works, the mobilization of
JPHAB work units became necessary to ensure that the paving of the highway would be
completed by the end of 1992, and that the road would be opened to traffic in early 1993.
This was a deadline that was firmly set by the Provincial Government.
11.   The original design, between km 31 and km 35 of the NJH, specified an
embankment height through a potential floodplain section based on a 25-year flood
frequency. This scheme was subsequently reviewed by authorities responsible for flood
control, and it was decided to raise the elevation of the highway along this section to meet
a 100-year flood frequency criterion. The additional works were undertaken by a group
of local contractors engaged following local procurement procedures. Since the section
of the highway was built to four-lane width, IDA-financing was restricted to half of the
expenditures involved, in line with the originally approved scope for the highway.
12.   The IDA-financed section (6 km), the southern half of the 12-km Connecting
Road, was executed partly under contracts awarded following local bidding procedures
and partly as force account works. Construction works commenced only in early 1993,
about 30 months later than originally scheduled, and were fully completed in October
1994, about 30 months behind the original schedule. However, the pavement of the road,



-5 -
without a wearing course, was completed much earlier, which allowed the opening of the
road to traffic in January 1994. The delay was caused by a change in the scope of works,
i.e., building the section as a four-lane divided highway instead of a two-lane road, and
also a major interchange at Changling, which originally was not contemplated. The non-
IDA-financed section of the Connecting Road (northern half) was built at about the same
time as the IDA-financed section. The construction of this section was carried out
slightly later than the southern section, i.e., between early 1993 and July 1995, in about
28 months.
13.   As attested by the progress reports submitted by the executing agency, Bank
Group supervision mission reports and other documents on file, the execution of civil
works for the NJH and the Connecting Road did not proceed smoothly. There were
recurrent problems with the principal contractor's poor performance, primarily due to
lack of experience in carrying out highway projects of sirnilar magnitude and complexity.
Also, the contractor lacked adequate financial resources and eq[uipment to make
satisfactory progress, and frequently failed to meet the quality requirements stipulated in
the technical specifications. Furthermore, the contractor was exceedingly slow in
complying with repeated requests from the Jiangxi Province, MOC and the Bank Group
to mobilize additional resources to improve his organization, management and the quality
of works. The contractor's headquarters also failed to provide sufficient support to its on-
site unit and thus could not guarantee the timely completion of the works in compliance
with the terms of the contract. Moreover, there were frequent disputes between the
foreign and local partners about their respective responsibilities under the joint-venture
agreement that impacted adversely on both the progress and quality of works.
14.   The construction of the highway was supervised primarily by provincial technical
personnel, assisted by one, and for a short period by two, foreign supervising engineers.
Because of the inexperience and poor performance of the contractors, particularly in the
initial phase of the project, the supervision team had difficulty in ensuring effective
control over the quality of the ongoing works. Having no experience in managing
contracts based on internationally accepted conditionalities, the construction supervision
had to rely on newly trained staff to gradually gain adequate experience in order to apply
supervision procedures appropriately. The task of construction supervision was made
increasingly difficult by the excessive number of subcontractors, who were inadequately
guided by the principal contractor. However, with continued on-the-job training of
supervision staff, the repeated efforts to strengthen and regroup the supervision units and
enforce supervision procedures, the effectiveness of' the supervision organization
gradually improved.
15.   Nevertheless, the extent of remedial works, which became necessary during the
first three years of the operation of the highway, is a sobering indication of the high risk
involved in combining inexperienced contractors (engaged in the construction of high-
class highways) with partially qualified supervision personnel (handiicapped by lack of
experience in similar types of assignments). Furthermore, the token presence of foreign
supervisors, in this case basically one foreign supervisor for more than 100 km of



-6 -
highway, was able to contribute only marginally to on-site quality control. Under the
circumstances, even a relatively effective supervision team would have had difficulties in
preempting the quality defects. The extent of corrective and remedial works, following
the opening of the highway to traffic, has been substantial. The works included extensive
resurfacing of the pavement, repairing and expanding roadside drainage facilities, and
shoulder and slope protection provisions. Despite the quality deficiencies and the
obvious traces of poor workmanship, the condition of the highway could be stabilized if:
(a) critical remedial works are continued as deemed necessary; (b) routine and periodic
maintenance works are carried out with the required frequency; and (c) emergency repair
works, which will most likely emerge because of the climatic and geological conditions
in the highway corridor, are undertaken as soon as deterioration is noted.
16.   The decision of the Provincial Government to commence the widening of the NJH
from a two-lane to a four-lane divided highway in 1994 was influenced by the alarmingly
high number of accidents on the two-lane NJH. During the first 30 months of the
highway's operation (January 1993-July 1995) there were 1,080 accidents, resulting in
156 fatalities and 522 personal injuries. The total number of accidents reached 1,325 by
the end of 1995. There was a relatively high number of head-on collisions, which raises
the risk of constructing high-speed, two-lane highways in China. The reason for the high
number of accidents could primarily be the drivers' inexperience in driving at relatively
high speeds on two-lane highways. However, the generally poor condition of the vehicle
fleet could have been a contributing factor to a fair proportion of the accidents.
17.   Environmental Protection. During the design and construction of the highway,
attention was paid to environmental protection, including measures for roadside drainage
and slope protection. However, due to the characteristics of the terrain and the soil along
the highway, the roadside drainage systems are still deficient on several sections of the
highway, and the risk of erosion and water pollution is still substantial. Wherever
possible, the slopes of embankments and excavated areas have been protected by grass
coverage and other vegetation. However, additional and, in some areas, repeated planting
will be required before the slopes can be better stabilized and protected against erosion.
Unfortunately, the property of some soils along the highway are such that the risk of
erosion and slope failures cannot be entirely eliminated. The Jiangxi Provincial High-
Class Highway Administration Bureau (JPHCHAB), which is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the highway, is fully aware of the deficiencies and the
environmental risks involved, and a program has been prepared for carrying out the
necessary improvements and maintenance works. The regular reporting of environmental
protection and maintenance activities will be made according to the formats and
frequencies stipulated in the administration, management and operation manual under
preparation (para. 81).
18.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement.  Land acquisition, resettlement and
compensation procedures agreed at negotiations have been substantially followed.
However, the scale of the requirements have changed because of design changes and
more accurate delineation of the right-of-way boundaries, which resulted in an increase in



-7 -
the area of land required by about 29 percent. There was also a significant increase in the
number and area of affected houses and attached structures.  Requirements for
infrastructure relocation (power and telephone lines, roads, canals and wells) also
increased over and above earlier estimates. The number of individuals affected by the
highway construction more than doubled from about 2,792 to 5,938. The additional
requirements, combined with the higher cost of compensation than originally envisaged,
increased the overall cost of land acquisition and resettlement compensation from Y 21.2
million to Y 34.8 million.
19.   The land acquisition and resettlement compensation for the Connecting Road
amounted to Y 9.0 million. Although there are no estirnates on record for comparison,
this relatively high cost is understandable since the road traverses partially residential and
industrial development areas.  Furthermore, the location of two interchanges and
provisions for grade separations at the points the Connecting Road intersects local roads
required the acquisition of substantial areas of partially developed land.
20.   The Bank's Resettlement Review Mission visited Jiangxi in November/December
1994, and confirmed that, in general, the compensation process was executed
satisfactorily, although some township and village administrations were withholding a
portion of the compensation payments for the financing of public works. Moreover, there
were indications that some of the people affected may not have been able to restore their
standard of living immediately following the dislocation. However, such occurrences
have not been frequent, and Bank Group staff were assured that the individual grievances
had been followed up by the entities responsible for compensation matters. Also, because
of evidence of accelerated economic activity in the NqJH corridor, according to the
information provided by the executing agency, job opportunities and income levels have
been increasing.
21.   Construction Cost. The civil works cost of the two-lane NJH at the time of
project appraisal was estimated at Y 169.83 million, including physical and price
contingencies. Although the contract award amount was only Y 144.7 million, the final
cost of the construction came to Y 432.62 million, representing a cost increase of about
155 percent over the appraisal estimate and about a 200 percent increase over the initial
contract amount, at current prices. The cost increase is a combined result of the increases
in physical quantities and the cost of additional works undertaken due to work variation
orders and price escalation, in a proportion of about 64 percent and 36 percent,
respectively.
22.   The cost of the 6 km, two-lane Connecting Road at the time of project appraisal
was estimated at Y 20.49 million, including physical and price contingencies. The
aggregate value of the two local civil works contracts amrounted to Y 50.92 million. The
Bank Group also approved the undertaking of civil works by force account, based on
priced Bills of Quantities totaling Y 13.78 million, related to paving works of the 6 km
IDA-financed highway section, bringing the total contract amount for works to Y 64.7
million. The final cost of civil works for the 12 km Cormecting Road became Y 228.45



-8 -
million, comprising Y 90.47 million for the IDA-approved contracts (about a 40 percent
increase over the contracted amount), and Y 137.98 million for the works undertaken by
JPHAB. This includes Y 27.85 million for the construction of buildings for toll
operation, administration and maintenance facilities. The relatively high cost of Y 19
million per kilometer can be explained by the requirement for building two interchanges
(one at Changling and one at Shalljia) and several other structures necessary to provide
grade separation for local and through traffic, particularly near the new residential and
industrial area, Changbei Development (Map 2). The construction of the Connecting
Road was financed primarily by Jiangxi Province, although Nanchang Municipality also
contributed Y 10.0 million. The IDA contribution to the construction of the Connecting
Road was about $4.5 million equivalent, representing about 20 percent of the total cost of
civil works for the Connecting Road, at a disbursement percentage of 50 percent.
23.   The civil works cost of widening the two-lane NJH to a four-lane divided
highway was expected to be Y 508.9 million or about 80 percent higher than the
construction of the two-lane portion of the NJH, at current prices. In addition to the
widening of the NJH, Jiangxi Province also proceeded with the extension of the NJH
from Jiujiang to the Chang River Bridge at the Hubei provincial boundary. This involved
the construction of a 12.5 km four-lane divided highway between Jiujiang (Shilibu) at a
cost of Y 217.8 million, which was fully financed by the Province.
24.   Economic Evaluation.  An updated economic evaluation for the NJH is
presented in Annex 1. Because of the major changes in the originally envisaged scope of
the NJH, the economic reevaluation was carried out not only for the two-lane NJH, as a
comparison to the evaluation presented in the SAR (Case I), but also for the four-lane
divided-highway version, which has been in operation since January 1996 (Case II). An
economic evaluation was also made as if the widening of the two-lane NJH had been
justifiable only in the year 2003 (Case III). Furthermore, an economic evaluation was
made for the 12 km four-lane Connecting Road as well. No economic evaluation was
presented in the SAR for the originally planned 6 km road linking the NJH with the NBC.
25.   The ICR estimate of the ERR for the NJH (Case I) is 30.2 percent, compared to
the SAR estimate of 30.1 percent. Although the ERR estimates under the ICR evaluation
and those presented in the SAR are much the same, it should be noted that: (a) the
economic cost of investment for the highway, at constant December 1995 prices, has
almost doubled; (b) the cost increase, in terms of ERR comparison, has been
compensated by about 50 percent higher corridor traffic than forecast, except for the first
section of the highway, for which the SAR forecast was inexplicably high; (c) traffic
diversion from the existing arterial road to the new highway has, so far, corresponded
closely to SAR estimates, which resulted in an about 50 percent higher traffic volume on
the new highway than originally forecast; and (d) in estimating benefits, the ICR has
taken into account the effect of capacity constraints of the two-lane highway beyond
2005.



-9 -
26.   For the four-lane NJH (Case II), the ERR estimrate is 23.4 percent, based on the
additional Y 504.98 million investment made during 1994-96, at constant December 1995
prices. Based on ICR assumptions, a lower ERR for th[e four-lane NJH (Case II) versus
the two-lane NJH seems to indicate that, despite a higher-than-expected traffic growth,
the investment in the widening was premature. An ICR analysis indicated that close-to-
optimum timing for providing the second carriageway would be in 2003, by which time
the traffic volume would reach 6,000-7,000 vehicles per day (vpd), the threshold of
capacity constraint for a two-lane highway. The estimated ERR for such a scenario (Case
III) is 29.3 percent (Table 5C of Annex 1), which is very close to the ERR percentage for
the two-lane NJH (Case I) of 30.2 percent (Table 5A of Annex 1).
27.   The ICR's estimate of ERR for the Connecting Road, based on the economic cost
of investment of Y 253.55 million and the traffic census data since its opening to traffic,
is only 4.3 percent. The reasons for such a low rate are: (a) the cost of construction has
been high, primary because of the requirement to construct two interchanges and several
structures through a residential/industrial development area; and (b) only about half of the
traffic of the NJH has been diverting to the Connecting Road, while the other half has
been using the existing arterial road and street networks and the two old bridges in
Nanchang City.
28.   Since the Connecting Road is an integral part of the corridor improvement
scheme, the economic costs and benefits of the Connecting Road hLave been combined
with that of the NJH. This has resulted in an ERR of 25.0 percent, only slightly less than
the ERR estimate for the NJH Case I. Notwithstanding this, the question arises whether,
in light of the about-even split of traffic at the southern end of the NJH and an almost 53
percent less traffic usage of the NBC as forecast (para. 22 of Annex 1), the Connecting
Road could have been initially built only as a two-lane highway. However, such a
consideration ignores the potential for accelerated buildup of traffic generated by the
residential/industrial development area along the corridor of the Connecting Road, which
has not been taken into account in the analysis.
29.   Regarding the question of the appropriate timing for duplication of the highway, it
can be concluded that the rate of traffic growth between 1986 and 1995, and the number
of vehicles that diverted to the new highway were higher than estimated at project
appraisal. The higher-than-expected rate of growth can be attributed ito the designation of
the Nanchang-Jiujiang corridor in 1992 as a Special Economic Zone. It appears that this
decision contributed to the accelerated economic development in the corridor and,
consequently, to a higher-than-expected traffic growth. The ICR estimate of an annual
average traffic growth rate in the range of 8.3 to 8.6 percent for the 1993-2015 period
(including actual traffic for 1993-95) could be a somewhat conservative assumption if the
economy of the corridor grows at an even faster rate in the future than during recent
years.
30.  In the SAR, the highway investment cost used to arrive at the ERR was based
exclusively on an estimated cost of civil works. To maintain comparability of the



- 10-
economic evaluations between the SAR and ICR, the ICR economic evaluation of Case I
is based on the actual cost of civil works, amounting to Y 500.81 million (in constant
December 1995 prices). A more common evaluation methodology is to include in the
highway investment cost well-identified cost items, such as the cost of land acquisition
and resettlement, construction supervision and the cost of design. When such additional
costs, which represent about 15 percent of the civil works cost, are also taken into
consideration in the economic evaluation, the ICR's ERR of 30.2 percent for Case I
would drop to about 29.7 percent, which was not considered to be a significant variation.
Therefore, sensitivity analysis was not extended to Case II and Case III scenarios because
of additional investment costs over and above the cost of civil works.
Nanchang Bridge Complex
31.   The construction of a new bridge over the Gan River had been under
consideration since the mid-1970s in anticipation of eventual traffic congestion on the
two substandard Bayi and Ganjiang bridges. They served urban as well as interprovincial
traffic to the neighboring provinces of Zhejiang, Fujian, Guangdong, Hunan, Hubei and
Anhui. The NBC, located on the southeastern side of the City is about 9 km long and
comprises the main 2,000 m bridge, including approach structures, a 130 m long bridge
over the Fuhi River, and approach roads and other associated structures (Map 3).
32.   Engineering Design. The feasibility study and preliminary engineering for the
bridge complex were undertaken by the Nanchang Municipal Planning and Design
Institute, while the detailed engineering for the bridge was prepared by the Shanghai
Municipal Design Institute. Foreign experts were involved in the review of the design
and the preparation of the tender documents. The concept for the design of the main
bridge was innovative but complex. Designed as a continuous, prestressed, concrete-
girder structure with a double-deck, it provides for six traffic lanes on the upper deck and
pedestrian and bicycle passages on the two lower decks, cantilevered under the main deck
on each side of the bridge.
33.  Implementation and Supervision. Two contracts for the major works were
awarded following ICB procedures at Y 132.7 million, and three contracts for minor road
works were awarded following local bidding procedures at Y 42.4 million. A further
contract for the construction of the Simamiao Interchange, located at South Yuanjiang
Road, the contracting of which was not contemplated at project appraisal, was awarded at
Y 33.0 million following domestic contracting arrangements. Although the design
change was endorsed by MOC and the Bank Group in recognition of its merits, the
contract for the construction of the interchange was financed entirely from the Nanchang
Municipality's own resources.
34.   The construction of the main bridge was expected to commence in October 1989
and be completed in 36 months. Although the bridge was opened for traffic in October
1994, the bridge works were completed fully only in January 1995, with a delay of 21
months. This does not include a roughly six-month delay in the commencement of works



after the contract was awarded due to some disputes betveen NURCEB and the contractor
regarding the delay in handing over the site and mobilization payment. The slow
progress was due mainly to the complexity of the task, which required some design
changes during implementation to accommodate a revised methodology for the
construction of the upper structure of the main bridge. Also, major flooding of the Gan
River in 1993 compounded the delay. Other contracts also suffered from delays largely
due to design changes, adverse subsoil and weather conclitions and the poor performance
of some of the contractors.
35.   Although the contractor for the main bridge had extensive bridge construction
experience, the overall organization and programming of works was deficient. Also, as
reflected in the quarterly progress reports and the Bank Group supervision mission
reports, the quality of construction was a recurrent concern.  There were frequent
references made to the lack of the main bridge contractor's own internal quality control
system, which took quite some time to formulate, but its effectiveness in assuring quality
did not live up to expectations. The quality problems contributed to the slower-than-
expected progress of works.
36.   For supervision of the NBC works, a supervision unit was established under the
direction of NURCB, with a total of about 70 technical and administration personnel.
The unit was assisted by an experienced foreign structural engineer who was engaged for
the project in an advisory capacity. Despite the commendable efforlt of the supervision
unit, the limits of the effectiveness of supervision were noticeable. T he main reason for
this was that most of the supervision personnel lacked experience in working with
contract conditionalities required under ICB procedures.
37.   Prior to the final takeover of the works from the contractors, the quality of works
were assessed. For the main bridge, the poorest-rated work items included the deck
system (concrete deck, curbs, railings, paving of the pedestrian/bicycle passage at the
lower deck of the bridge), although no risk was detected concerning the structural safety
of the bridge. The quality of bitumen pavements of the western approach roads was also
rated as deficient. Although extensive remedial works were carried out by the contractors
on all contracts during the defect liability periods, the appearance of some elements of the
NBC  still have traces of less-than-desirable workmanship.  Notwithstanding the
difficulties encountered and the quality deficiencies identified during implementation, the
completion of the NBC is a commendable achievement and speaks highly of the ability
and technical competence of the personnel involved from all participating units: the
contractors, supervision unit and the executing agency. The supervision unit made
conscious efforts to identify and reject works that did not meet technical specifications,
and it is to their credit that no critical deficiencies have been detected since the NBC
opened to traffic.
38.   Environmental Protection.   Whatever disturbances were made to the
environment in the Nanchang Bridge corridor during construction, NIJRCB took steps to
mitigate the detrimental impacts of such disturbances. Moreover, during the latter phase



- 12 -
of execution, extensive landscaping and green belts were provided along the river banks
in the vicinity of the main bridge, and the adjacent areas were given a facelift with
environmental and aesthetic considerations. At the eastern bridge head, 11 hectares of
land area were reserved for public use, which has been programmed for stage-by-stage
development. Similar landscaping schemes are being established on the two sides of the
Fuhe Bridge, in the Simamiao Interchange area and at the western bridgehead. Noise
levels on the Nanchang City street network have been lowered as a result of traffic
diversion to the new Nanchang Bridge.
39.   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. The land acquisition, resettlement and
compensation procedures agreed at negotiations were substantially followed. However,
design changes necessitated the expansion of the scope of land acquisition and
resettlement, which resulted in a higher-than-budgeted cost. The initial estimate of Y 6.1
million for land acquisition and resettlement compensation increased about sevenfold to
Y 42.1 million. The area of land required increased fourfold; from about 268 mu to
1,190 mu, and the number of individuals affected by the construction of the NBC
increased from 3,560 to 6,141. The observations made on the resettlement issues
regarding the NJH in para. 20 are equally pertinent to the NBC component.
40.   Construction Cost.  The SAR estimate for the NBC was Y 166.5 million,
including physical and price contingencies, compared to aggregate contract amounts of
Y 208.1 million. The actual cost of construction amounted to Y 302.09 million,
representing a cost increase of about 81 percent over SAR estimates and about 67 percent
over the contract amounts. The cost increase is a combined result of the increases in
physical quantities and the cost of additional works undertaken through variation orders,
and price adjustments due to price escalation, in a proportion of about 60 percent and
40 percent, respectively. The above amount includes the construction of the Simamiao
Interchange at Y 46.8 million. However, the Nanchang Municipality also financed work
items not taken into consideration at project appraisal, at an aggregated amount of
Y 22.45 million.  These items were necessary for improving the operation and
sustainability of the NBC. They included lighting, traffic and navigational signaling, toll
facilities, essential river training, landscaping, and pedestrian and bicycle accesses ramps
to the main bridge. Thus, the total cost of works for the NBC in the ICR was taken as
Y 324.53 million in current prices, corresponding to Y 379.03 million in economic cost at
constant December 1995 prices.
41.   Economic Evaluation. As detailed in Annex 1, the ICR estimate of the ERR for
the NBC is 16.6 percent compared to the SAR's estimate of 38 percent. The main
reasons for the about 56 percent lower ERR are as follows: (a) the actual traffic on the
new bridge in 1995 was only 53 percent of the SAR forecast because: (i) the corridor
traffic, i.e., the sum of the traffic crossing the Gan River using all three bridges, was only
about 62 percent of the forecast traffic, and (ii) the share of traffic of the new bridge was
only about 58 percent of the corridor traffic compared to the SAR's estimate of 68
percent; (b) the economic cost of investment exceeded the SAR estimate by about 95
percent in constant 1995 prices; and (c) the ICR estimate of the traffic growth rate from



- 13 -
1996 onward has been lower compared to SAR estimates because of the traffic
distribution pattern that evolved following the opening of the bridge.
42.   The significantly lower-than-expected traffic on the NBC could be attributed to
the following: (a) since the bridge is located in the southeastern corner of Nanchang City,
it appears that most of the local traffic, despite congested traffic conditions, prefers using
the two old bridges, which evidently provide shorter origin-to-destination routes to the
greater part of the city; (b) the buildup of through traffic, which supposedly would have
bypassed Nanchang City, has been considerably slower than it was expected at appraisal;
and (c) the tolling of the new bridge is likely to present a greater-than-expected deterrent
to road users. In the absence of a comprehensive traffic origin and destination survey, it
can be assumed that the actual growth rates of recent years and the distribution of traffic
will not change substantially in the foreseeable future. This is so mainly because
Nanchang Municipality has recently commenced the construction of a new Bayi Bridge
in the city center to increase overall corridor capacity across the Gan River to ease the
bottleneck effect of the present Bayi Bridge. Consequently, the ICR's traffic growth
forecast for the new Nanchang Bridge has been lowered to 4.5 percent per year compared
to the SAR's estimate of 8.7 percent from 1995 onward.
43.   Overall E1RR for Civil Works. The ICR's estimate for the overall ERR on the
investment made in the two-lane NJH (Case I), the Comnecting Road and the NBC was
22.6 percent. This compares to the SAR estimate of 30.1 percent for the highway and
38.0 for the NBC, according to the original scheme. The SAR did not provide an ERR
estimate for the Connecting Road and a combined ERR estimate for the NJH and the
NBC.
Equipment Procurement
44.   Provisions were made under the project for the purchase of the following groups
of equipment at an estimated overall cost of $2.23 million, including physical and price
contingencies:
For JPTD: (a) road maintenance equipment, comprising graders, bulldozers,
asphalt and cement concrete mixers, pavers, traffic counters, trucks, etc., $1.32
million; (b) road condition measuring equipment and instruments for RDB and
PMS programs, $0.53 million;
For NURCB: (c) inspection and maintenance equipment for the Nanchang
Bridge, $0.16 million (local financing only); and (d) traffic management
information system, $0.22 million.
45.   The final cost of equipment amounted to $7.83 million. It was distributed as
$6.60 million, $0.57 million, $0.38 million and $0.28 million with respect to (a), (b), (c),
and (d) above. IDA financing covered about $2.9 mi:llion (about 37 percent) of the
acquisition cost.



- 14 -
46.   Seventeen units of maintenance equipment were procured through international
and local shopping as stipulated in the Development Credit Agreement, for an aggregate
amount of $4.90 million. Seven of these units were IDA-financed for $2.32 million,
while the remaining four units, at $2.57 million, were financed from the Province's own
resources. The cost of locally procured road maintenance equipment (11 units) and
trucks (35 units), which were not budgeted at the time of appraisal, was financed by
Jiangxi Province at Y 9.85 million ($1.70 million equivalent).
47.   Under item (b) of para. 44, three units of road condition survey equipment were
procured only in the fourth quarter of 1995 with considerable delay, and these units have
not yet been put to full use. Computer hardware and software for the PMS program were
obtained using JPTD's own resources.
48.   Four units of equipment were procured for the maintenance of the Nanchang
Bridge, at a total cost of $380,000 equivalent under NURCB's own financing. The cost
of the equipment for the Nanchang Bridge traffic monitoring system ($280,000) (para.
78) was 66 percent IDA-financed.
49.   The equipment procured is regarded as appropriate in type, quality and number to
meet the anticipated routine and periodic maintenance needs of the NJH and the NBC.
The units of the road condition survey equipment procured are important requirements for
the application of the PMS.
Staff Training Program
50.   The objectives of the staff training program were to: (a) improve the proficiency of
engineers and other staff by sending selected personnel abroad to attend academic and
practical training courses, as well as relevant international conferences; (b) strengthen the
capacity of highway institutes and technical schools of JPTD by providing equipment,
training aids and books; and (c) invite foreign experts to help upgrade the schools'
curricula. JPTD's project budget for staff training was about $800,000 for 85 person-
months of training abroad, and for local training by two foreign experts over a two-month
period for an unspecified number of trainees. NURCB's staff training budget was about
$135,000 for 24 person-months of training abroad and for 45 person-months for local
training.
51.   Soon after the startup of the project, it was recognized that organizing training
courses on various topics for a relatively small group of trainees from just one provincial
transport department was neither practical nor economic. At IDA's initiative, and after
consultation with MOC and transport departments of other provinces, an understanding was
reached in late 1989 that most of the staff training programs under ongoing Bank Group-
financed highway projects would be coordinated by MOC. Accordingly, MOC has
prepared and administered training programs, the cost of which was shared by the provinces
receiving Bank Group assistance for highway projects being implemented more or less
concurrently with the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project. However, it was also agreed that



- 15 -
some training programs could also be arranged independently by any of the provincial
transport departments for their own staff.
52.   Training for JPTD personnel included 15 courses and study tours abroad. This
involved 58 trainees, for a total of 68.6 person-months, at $508,000. All courses were
coordinated by MOC. The courses covered: (a) RDB and PMS fundamentals and
operations as practiced abroad; (b) project preparation and economic evaluation
methodologies; (c) advanced highway geometric and pavement design techniques,
including computer applications; (d) road and bridge maintenance equipment types and
their operational characteristics; (e) traffic engineering fundamentals; (f) project
management, including financial aspects; (g) contract administration and construction
supervision; and (h) organization and management aspects of high-class highways. These
areas of training were well chosen, and provided JPTD staff with both irmmediate and long-
term benefits. The above-listed program does not include about 60 person-months of
training abroad in construction supervision and contract management of local personnel
assigned to the construction supervision units. Such training was carried out by the foreign
consulting finn contracted to provide supervision services. The cost was covered under the
consultant services contract.
53.   The training for NURCB staff included three training courses abroad in financial
management, project management and traffic engineering. They involved four staff
members for 3 person-months at a cost of about $40,000. This corresponded to only about
one third of the originally envisaged training program for NURCB staff under the project.
Largely due to the slowing down of the MOC coordinated program during 1994 and 1995,
NURCB missed the opportunity to fully utilize the buclget assigned for staff training.
However, NURCB has benefited from staff training provided abroad under bilateral aid in
1989 (19 trainees, 18.6 person-months). Local training was also provided to about 40
personnel of the contractors, totaling 24 person-months, under bilateral aid in the same year.
Moreover, 64 technical personnel of JPTD, with a total of 64 person-months, participated in
a variety of locally financed training courses, seminars, technical conferences and study
tours during 1989-94.
54.   The MOC-coordinated approach to staff training was expected to be more
economical than organizing training separately for each province. Although the actual cost
of about $7,434 per person-month is lower than the estimated cost of training abroad (for
about $9,400 per trainee for JPTD staff), it is still considered to be too high for involving
only 58 trainees. While it was accepted at the time of project preparation that training
abroad will be the dominant element of the program at a relatively high cost, it is now
questionable whether this approach has indeed been appropriate to meet technology transfer
needs for a transport department with a large technical staff in need of training in a variety
of disciplines, and with an urgent need for improving road transport infrastructure for all
classes of roads in a province where the condition of the road network was regarded to be
below national average. A less ambitious and costly tra:ining progranm abroad, balanced
with courses/seminars organized through local institutions with selective involvement of
foreign experts in areas where local expertise may have been in short supply, could have



- 16-
been a better alternative to providing an opportunity for training more staff. Such an
approach could have resulted in greater benefits to the institution. While the high cost of
training is a concern, warranting the exploration of alternative ways to conduct training
courses financed under similar future highway projects, the program provided exposure to
advanced technologies being applied in the countries visited and has been a beneficial and
suitable avenue for technology transfer.
Programs for Road Planning, Pavement Strengthening and Maintenance
55.   When the project was prepared, it was assumed that the initial programs for data
collection in the Province (to improve methods of road planning and practices of
strengthening and maintaining pavements) would be part of a study, the objectives of
which included: (a) establishing a road data base compatible with national guidelines that
would include an inventory of permanent features and current conditions of existing
paved roads; (b) beginning regular monitoring of the current conditions of paved roads;
(c) identifying pavement overlay and strengthening needs and resource requirements for
about 4,500 km of paved roads; and (d) conducting a pilot program for planning and
managing maintenance operations. The study was expected to take 15 months and
involve about 80 person-months of local and foreign personnel input (see the terms of
reference in SAR Annex 2).
56.   However, the study was not carried out as planned because it was superseded by
Government policies that instituted a nationwide approach to road planning, pavement
strengthening and maintenance. A group was set up under MOC, headed by its Director
of Highway Administration, to guide and coordinate the programs. MOC had already
begun to plan a nationwide RDB program in 1985 in each province and autonomous region
of the country. The idea was to use the data to improve highway planning and project
formulation, as well as for statistical purposes. The RDB framework was developed in
MOC's Highway Planning and Design Institute (HPDI) in the late 1980s and the
development of the Chinese PMS began in MOC's Highway Scientific Research Institute
(HSRI) in the late 1980s as well.
57.   By the early 1990s, reasonably good progress had been made with both the RDB
and the PMS programs. Therefore, MOC and the Bank Group agreed that it would be
more efficient and consistent to develop local capability for both of these systems, rather
than approach them separately in each of the provinces with external assistance. To
introduce the PMS, 15 provinces/municipalities were selected, which included Jiangxi
Province and the following nine provinces that had Bank Group-financed highway
projects scheduled for implementation during the Eighth Five-Year-Plan (8FYP) and
9FYP periods: Hebei, Shandong, Jiangsu, Guangdong, Shaanxi, Zhejiang, Sichuan,
Xinjiang and Henan. The Bank Group supported MOC's endeavor, and the highway
projects helped finance the acquisition of equipment, including computer hardware and
software, instruments for land-based land surveys and geographic information systems.



-17-
Road Data Bank Development and Application
58.   The development of the RDB and PMS programs in Jiangxi Province started in
1991 with the establishment of a Leading Group with seven senior personnel and a
Working Group with a staff of seven, including personnel from JPHAB, the Nanchang-
Jiujiang Highway Project Office and the Research Office of JPTD. In addition, 11
implementation teams were created at district levels. The activities to date have been
limited to basic data collection on national and provincial highways including historical
information on construction, location and general informattion on culverts and bridges,
pavement structures, roadside facilities, design speed and classified traffic counts.
However, the RDB software developed by HPDI of MOC has not as yet been introduced to
the Province. The setting up of the RDB program has not started because the Province is
still awaiting firner directives from MOC regarding the transfer of the appropriate software
package to be used. It is expected that with the successfully completed pilot RDB
development program in Shaanxi Province, there will be more incentives to pursue the
establishment of the RDB in Jiangxi as well as in other provinces. However, MOC's
leadership and guidance are essential for this to happen.
Pavement Management System Development and Application
59.   The Chinese PMS system, which was formulated by HSRI, was introduced first to
two prefectures in 1992. The system was extended to five additional municipalities/
prefectures in 1993, and to the remaining municipalities/prefectures in 1994, covering an
overall paved network of about 5,000 km. Road condition data, including pavement
deflection, roughness and surface distress parameters are collected by 95 maintenance
divisions in the 11 prefectures/municipalities. Each prefecture/municipality prepares yearly
road maintenance programs, based on the output data from the PMS. JPHAB compiles the
information, which is then used to assist in deciding the distribution of maintenance funds
according to identified priorities. Considering that the national/provincial network under
the jurisdiction of JPHAB include about 700 km of concrete paved roads and about
9,500 km of gravel surfaced roads, JPHAB has taken steps to expand the capability of the
PMS to handle the analysis of these types of road surfaces as well. It would be beneficial if
MOC, through HSRI, could provide technical input to such an effort, which could have
nationwide application.
60.   The contribution of the project to PMS development has been the acquisition of
advanced equipment for road condition data collection. This will replace the more
conventional, less accurate and more time-consuming methods used thus far. However, the
project's main impact has been, as far as the PMS is concerned, that it provided a stimulus
for adopting this new methodology to help the management of the national and provincial
road network. The satisfactory progress made so far benefited from the firm support of the
senior personnel of JPTD and JPHAB, and the dedication of the personnel involved in the
operation of the PMS program.



- 18-
61.   While the setting up of the PMS has been expeditious, and its expansion to cover
the paved national and provincial road network has been achieved, the progress on
development of the RDB has been minimal. The main reason for the slow progress made
on the development of the RDB in Jiangxi Province, and in some other provinces, has
been that MOC was reluctant to urge the provinces to proceed more expeditiously with
the setting up of the RDB systems until there was sufficient evidence that the system
formulated by HPDI was appropriate and functional. These aspects were tested through a
pilot program in Baoji Prefecture in Shaanxi Province, demonstrating that the system
could be made operational. However, it was also recognized that the setting up and
sustained upkeep of an RDB is costly, and some provinces felt that the investment may
not yield sufficient benefits to justify its expeditious development. It seems that it will
take considerably more effort and time than was originally envisaged for RDB to become
operational and usable as an overall planning tool not only in Jiangxi, but also in several
other provinces of China.
62.   On the other hand, the PMS has more transparent objectives and the outputs from
the system are more readily perceived as beneficial to reaching rational technical and
budgetary decisions. However, despite the good progress made in Jiangxi province, more
effort, budgetary support and overall acceptance of the PMS output for planning and
budgeting purposes will be needed to operate the PMS more effectively.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
63.   No extraneous major factors affected the implementation of the project. However,
because of inflation and design changes, the original cost estimate of the project increased
by about 132 percent in local currency terms and by about 59 percent in US dollar terms
(Part II-Tables 8A and 8B). The percentage difference reflects the effect of the
devaluation of the local currency during 1987-95. The implementation delays were
substantial for some of the project components but less so overall. The SAR indicated
the completion of the project by the end of 1994 and the closing date of the credit as
December 31, 1995. This implied the recognition of an above-average risk of an overall
delay in implementation. The project as a whole was substantially completed by the end
of 1994, as reflected by the level of disbursements at that time.  However, the
disbursement pattern highlights the slower-than-expected progress of works during
FY91-93 (Part Il-Table 4). The credit was fully disbursed on December 13, 1995.
64.   The major factor that adversely affected the implementation of the project was the
poor performance of the contractors, both in terns of implementation delays and the
quality of works. These problems were more dominant and transparent on the NJH than
on the NBC component. Documentation on file reveals that the poor progress and quality
of works on the NJH were a recurrent issue. Even the pressure exerted in a coordinated
manner on the contractor's units on-site and at its headquarters by Jiangxi Province, the
Central Government and the Bank Group brought about only limited improvement in the
contractor's performance. Having little prospects for satisfactory improvement in the
contractor's ability to complete the contracted works by the deadline set, the Province



- 19 -
was prompted in mid-1992 to mobilize JPHAB force account units to take over the
completion of paving works over a substantial length of the highway. This included the
asphalt works on the 33 km northern-end section of the N.H. Poor cooperation between
the local contractor and the foreign partners responsible for asphalt works also interfered
with the orderly execution of the works. This was one of the reasons for the decision to
involve provincial road construction units in the execution of the paving works.
Unfortunately, the lack of experience of JPHAB constiuction units in high-standard
pavement works, along with the pressure to get the paving works finished in a hurry, led
to premature deterioration of the pavement over several sections of the highway, which
resulted in substantial remedial works soon after the January 1993 opening of the
highway to traffic.
65.   Although the delay in completing the NBC was even longer than that for the NJH
(para. 34), there had been some mitigating circumstances for these delays, including the
complexity of design, adjusting the design to facilitate the erection of the superstructure,
and the flooding of the Gan River, which set back the progress of works beyond the
control of the contractors. There were also quality defects, but these had a good chance
to be detected by supervision and corrected during implementation. Also, during the
inspection prior to the takeover of works from the contractors, deficiencies were
identified and corrections were executed within the defects liability period. The extent of
remedial works during the operation phase of the NBC were not excessive.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITYV
66.   Despite the inadequacies of design and the risk of the quality deficiencies
emerging as a consequence of poor workmanship during construction, if routine and
periodic maintenance works are carried out in a systematic and timely manner, and
prompt remedial actions are taken in the case of emergencies, which are likely to occur in
the future due to the generally unfavorable weather and geological conditions in the NJH
corridor, the project's civil works components should be sustainable. H[owever, because
of the elements of risk mentioned above, it is likely that a higher-than-usual proportion of
the toll revenues will be necessary to cover the maintenance expenditures of the civil
works.
67.   The equipment fleet acquired under the project should provide adequate long-term
service since operators have been trained, sufficient stock of essential spares has been
purchased and maintenance facilities have been made available along the NJH, and in the
vicinity of the NBC, for the regular maintenance of the units.
68.   The Province has shown interest in the development of the PMS program, and
regards its operation as an important tool for road maintenance and road improvement
decisions. The program is expected to be maintained, input data regularly collected, and
output information used more extensively in the future to distribute road maintenance
funds according to well-documented priorities of roacd network maintenance and
improvement needs.



- 20 -
69.   The information from the staff training program, despite the involvement of a
relatively small proportion of staff, is expected to be disseminated throughout both
organizations to reach the majority of personnel and have a longer-term impact on
improving administration, management methods and highway-specific technology in
JPTD and NURCD.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
70.   The project was consistent with the sectoral investment priority of Jiangxi
Province and the Nanchang Municipality, the development objectives of the Central
Government and the country assistance strategy of the Bank Group. The identification of
the components, preparation, appraisal and supervision of the project were satisfactory.
However, partly through hindsight, the following weaknesses have been noted:
(a)   The Bank Group could have been more alert to the risk involved in the
preparation of the engineering design for the project highway (para. 8).
However, since Bank Group resources are normally limited to undertaking
the examination of design packages in depth, the design documentation for
the NJH, which was completed by local design institutes, were reviewed
by foreign experts under bilateral aid. This was in line with the practice
for the first five Bank Group-financed highway projects, including that in
Jiangxi Province. However, there had been a strong reluctance by the
executing agencies to introduce design changes once the documentation
had been completed. For highway projects prepared for Bank Group
financing in FY92 and thereafter, the Bank Group used Consultant Trust
Funds to involve consultants in the preparation phase of engineering
design to work jointly with local design institutes. Such an approach was
aimed at improving the quality of design documentation through
consultant participation in the design process, rather than getting an
already completed design package reviewed. Recently, the Bank Group
achieved the same objective through including in project preparation
mission teams a highway design specialist to scrutinize the engineering
design.
(b)   The poor performance of the contractors, particularly for NJH (para. 13),
raises the question of the Bank Group's responsibility regarding contract
awards, since full compliance with Bank Group procedures on the
selection of contractors should assure that the contractors recommended
for contract award have the necessary experience and resources to
undertake the contract.  However, Bank Group staff are normally
constrained in obtaining reliable information about the experience and
qualification of the contractors. One of these is the executing agencies'
firm assurances that such assessments had been made to the satisfaction of
the executing agencies. Since the first step to assess the capabilities of
contractors should be in the prequalification phase, as from FY92, the



-21 -
Bank Group, following consultation with MOC, made the prequalification
process more stringent by insisting that the criteria for prequalification be
based on past performance records of a particular unit of the major
construction enterprises, rather than the past practice of prequalifying
major "umbrella" enterprises with a number of construction units with
unknown experience and resources. Some improvements were noted in
the outcome of the prequalification process for projects initiated after
FY92. However, there is a further need to tighten the prequalification
requirements and introduce measures to establish the credentials of the
contractors more conclusively at prequalification, and also prior to
contract award.
(c)   The possibility of terminating the contract for the NJH, in light of the
unsatisfactory performance of the contractor, was raised by Bank Group
staff repeatedly but it was not pursued since it could not be established
conclusively that terminating the contract and rebidding would have been
necessarily an advantageous alternative.  It would have introduced
additional delay due to the time needed for rebidding. Furthermore, the
lack of experienced contractors in China tc undertake the construction of
high-class highways offered no assurances that another contractor's
performance in terms of progress and quality would have been a better
alternative than making continued efforts to get the contract finished with
the contractor already on site.
(d)   It was recognized at an early stage of implementation that the Borrower
and the Bank Group had to deal with a problem project, and the Bank
Group staff involvement was intensified accordingly. During the critical
period of implementation between May 1989 and October 1992, there
were five Bank supervision missions in the field and there was frequent
written communication between the executing agencies and the Bank
Group on implementation issues. The Bank Group supervision missions
were comprehensive and staff provided constructive advice and guidance
for dealing with the problems identified. During the visi-ts to construction
sites, the quality deficiencies noted were brought to thc attention of the
contractors, supervision and executing agencies with firm requests for
taking well-defined and appropriate remedial actions. These suggestions
were generally well received and helped sharpen the focus on some of the
deficiencies noted by the missions. But the measures taken by the
executing agencies were not necessarily ef-Fective enough to bring about
adequate improvements.
(e)   The implementation of the project was rated unsatisfactory over a period
of about 24 months, because of poor management and unsatisfactory
performance of the contractors in terms of progress and quality. This was
primarily due to the problems associated with the implementation of the



- 22 -
NJH, and, to a lesser extent, concerning the execution of the NBC. The
Bank Group's concerns about the project were raised at high levels in the
Provincial and Central Governments. Also, at the initiative of the Bank
Group, high-level meetings were held in Beijing involving the officials at
headquarters of the NJH contractor, to address the critical problems facing
the implementation of the NJH component of the project. Such efforts
helped in mitigating the situation, but were far from resolving the
problems. The circumstances described in the preceding highlight the
dilemma faced by Bank Group staff in dealing with projects under which
the insufficient experience of contractors and supervision and the
executing agencies' administrative constraints limited the ability of staff to
control project implementation  effectively.   The extent of the
responsibility of the Bank Group for project implementation in such
circumstances, particularly in the context of "project ownership," becomes
a complex issue.
(f)   The Bank Group showed flexibility in dealing with the design changes,
which seemed to be rational and justifiable so as to avoid interrupting and
delaying the execution of works. Some of the changes added to the cost of
the project, such as widening and extending the Connecting Road and
building the Changling Interchange, which involved a limited amount of
IDA financing. However, there were investment decisions made by the
Province, without prior consultation with the Bank Group. These had a
bearing on the overall concept of the project's scope, such as the
duplication of the NJH, notwithstanding the fact that the relevant works
were entirely financed by the Province.
(g)   Actual traffic volumes compared with the forecast at the time of project
preparation, so far, have shown substantial divergences, which led to
conceptual changes in the scope of the project, and also impacted ERR
estimates. At project appraisal, the Bank Group's assessment indicated
that the new two-lane NJH and the existing arterial road should provide
adequate capacity in the Nanchang-Jiujiang corridor until 2010. However,
the actual traffic on the new two-lane NJH in 1995 was about 50 percent
higher than the assumption presented in the SAR, creating a scenario that
indicated an earlier-than-expected need for the duplication of the highway
from two lanes to four lanes. The Province decided to move on this matter
quickly and began the widening of the highway in early 1994. The second
carriageway of the NJH was opened to traffic in early 1996, about 14 years
earlier than would have been needed according to an assessment made at
project appraisal. According to ICR assumptions, the opening of the
second carriageway of the NJH could have waited until 2003. The only
mitigating factor in favor of bringing forward the duplication was the
excessively high number of accidents on the two-lane highway (para. 16).
While it appears that the Bank Group's assessment that a second



- 23 -
carriageway for the NJH would only be reqluired in 2010 was based on an
underestimation of traffic growth, it should be noted that forecasting
traffic in the Chinese environment is difficult because the rate and location
of development is irregular. There is normally only limited information
available on future land use and associated traffic-generating parameters
that could be taken into account at the time of traffic forecasting.
Furthermore, in 1992 the Central Govennment declared the Nanchang-
Jiujiang corridor to be a Special Economic Zone, which raised the prospect
of higher economic growth and higher-than-expected traffic growth in the
NJH corridor. Such developments could not be foreseen in 1987 when the
scope of the project was formulated.
(h)   The significantly lower ERR estimate in the ICR (16.6 percent versus 38
percent in the SAR) for the NBC could be viewed more critically in the
context of the SAR's assumption for future traffic using the new
Nanchang Bridge. Even with the benefit of hindsight, a close to 54
percent overestimate of traffic for 1995 across the new bridge lacked
sufficient understanding of a plausible traffic distribution in the larger
Nanchang City area in relation to the expanse of the Nanchang City and
the location of the two older bridges and the new Nanchang Bridge.
Although the revised ERR of 16.6 percent, which reflects not only the
lower-than-expected traffic levels but also the substantial cost increases
involved, still represents a viable investment, the large margin of
discrepancy in the estimated ERRs can be regarded as a conceptual
oversight in forecasting traffic distribution in the Nanchang City area.
This discrepancy could even worsen in future years because the Nanchang
Municipality's decision to replace the Bayi Bridge lowers the prospect for
an increase in traffic diversion. Thus, it is unlikely that the share of
corridor traffic of the Nanchang Bridge will increase in the foreseeable
future.
(i)    The limited progress made on the introduction of the RDB program to the
Province could have been more firmly handled by the Bank Group.
However, the leading role of MOC in this matter was c]learly understood.
The Bank Group routinely raised this issue with MOC in the context of
broader policy and strategy discussions. MOC confirmed to the Bank
Group its intent to pursue the development ,f RDB nationwide. However,
it appears that some of the provinces are more receptive and more
prepared to proceed with the program than others, cLepending on the
resources available, and the level of perception of the program's overall
benefits.



- 24 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
71.  JPTD of Jiangxi Province and NURCB of Nanchang Municipality were first-time
executing agencies for Bank Group-financed projects. This fact was a notable element in
the way the project was administered, particularly in the early phases of implementation.
The two agencies were not well prepared for the administrative requirements associated
with Bank-Group borrowing and for the management of major contracts based on ICB
conditionalities. It seemed that JPTD was short of personnel at high- and mid-levels,
which placed a heavy burden on the capable but relatively few officials who had to cope
with a heavy workload. A broader distribution of responsibility may have been
constrained by the scarcity of sufficiently qualified and experienced staff to administer
the project. This constraint turned out to be more critical than initially perceived because
of the poor performance of the contractors and the involvement of numerous work units
of JPHAB as subcontractors in the implementation of the NJH. These units were poorly
guided in their tasks by the principal contractor. As the implementation proceeded, there
were some improvements in administering the project, although much the same personnel
had responsibility for the management of the additional civil works contracts
implemented under the Province's own financing along with the original project
components, such as the northern 6 km section of the Connecting Road, the widening of
the NJH from two lanes to four lanes and the further extension of the NJH from Jiujiang
to Chang River Bridge at the Anhui provincial boundary.
72.   JPTD's major mistake was the acceptance of the local/foreign joint venture to
undertake the construction of the NJH without first establishing the local contractor's
experience, ability and resource availability to carry out the works. The reason for this
relates to the deficiency in the prequalification process at that time. The practice had
been to prequalify major "umbrella" enterprises without identifying the capability of the
particular construction unit that eventually was assigned to execute the contract. By the
time JPTD recognized that the unit assigned was unqualified to execute the contract
satisfactorily, it was difficult and too late to take the drastic action of terminating the
contract. Although JPTD made great efforts to bring the contractor up-to-strength, the
headquarters of the "umbrella" enterprise made a less-than-prudent contribution to back
up its work unit in the field.
73.   Despite shortfalls in overall coordination and management, the exposure offered
by the IDA-financed project was beneficial to JPTD in gaining experience in the
organization, management and execution of a high-class highway project. The project
provided the opportunity to gain managerial skill and technical know-how for the
execution of similar projects in the Province. Because of the relatively confined work
area, the administrative task was less demanding, and the administrative constraints were
not as transparent in NURCB's organization as in JPTD. Also, in relative terms, there
was a larger group of technical personnel involved in the management and execution of
the NBC than of the NJH.



- 25 -
74.   A reference was made in para. 15 to the relatively premature deterioration of some
elements of civil works of the NJH soon after the highway was opened to traffic. One of
the reasons for the quality deficiencies relates to the lack of balanced judgment of the
provincial governments about the advantages and disadvantages of accepting some delay
in implementation in situations in which insistence on rneeting implementation target
dates would, in all probability, lead to serious quality deficiencies. It is not uncommon
that the provincial governments insist on the completion of the works by a given
deadline, contractual or otherwise determined, when such deadlines are not being based
on realistic work programs, ignore the capability an(d resources available to the
contractors and extraneous circumstances, such as seasonal climatic conditions. In such
situations, the risk become too high to expect that the works could be completed
satisfactorily and in compliance with the technical specifications. Particularly during the
last critical phases of implementation, it is common to see 'inferior quality of works done,
often involving pavement works, which are likely to lead eventually to excessive
rehabilitation and maintenance expenditures, burdening provincial budgets or toll
revenues. The acceleration of works in the interest of meeting unrealistic deadlines also
reduces the effectiveness of the construction supervision units.   Under such
circumstances, the vigilance of the supervision is impaired because the issue of quality
becomes secondary to meeting deadlines. The above observation is nolt confined to this
project but has also been noted in several other completed and still ongoing Bank Group-
financed highway projects.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
75.   Despite the serious difficulties encountered during the implementation of civil
works, the implementation of the project can be regarded as satisfactory, primarily
because the developmental objectives of the project have been achieved and are expected
to be sustainable. The stream of benefits is expected to be maintained, although at a
somewhat lower level than originally forecast, particularly for the NBC component.
Some of the components suffered implementation delays that exceeded SAR expectations
but were within the broader timeframe envisaged at project appraisal (para. 63). The NJH
component was completed in mid-1993, with about a year delay, while the NBC was
delayed substantially, from mid-1992 to mid-1994; about the same delay as that of the
completion of the Connecting Road.
76.   The local contractor's performance on the NJH was unsatisfactory. To assess the
performance of the foreign partner is difficult because the progress for asphalt works was
heavily dependent on the preparatory work for which the local contractor was responsible
according to the joint-venture agreement. The poor performance of the local contractor
for the NJH resulted primarily from limited experience with high-class highway
construction and unfamiliarity with international contract conditionalities.   The
contractor's limited resources, lack of managerial experience and its headquarters'
unwillingness or inability to provide greater support also hLd a detrimental effect on the
contractor's overall performance. While the contractor for the main Nanchang Bridge
incurred even longer implementation delays, the complexily of the bridge structure and



- 26 -
its demanding technology for the erection of the superstructure allow for taking a less
critical stance regarding delays and quality problems. Overall, both the NJH and NBC
works will provide satisfactory service but not without some emerging problems that will
require early detection and prompt remedial actions.
77.   The less-than-desirable performance of the contractors increased the burden and
responsibility of the construction supervision teams, which were coping with their tasks
with difficulty. At best, the performances of the teams were only marginally effective,
particularly in the initial phases of the implementation.   There were gradual
improvements thereafter, and the teams learned to cope with their tasks better and with
greater confidence.  However, during the final phases of the implementation, the
completion of the works became the primary objective and that had an adverse impact on
quality, and its effective control by the supervision units. The presence of a foreign
supervisor/advisor had been useful but, like on several other Bank Group-financed
projects, the number of foreign supervisors was insufficient in relation to the magnitude
and complexity of the works. Thus, foreign consultants have been confining their
involvement mainly to formulation of procedures, endorsement of major variation orders,
advising solutions in key technical matters and training-oriented activities.  These
functions are important but the limited number of experienced foreign supervising
engineers in a joint local/foreign supervision team unavoidably constrains the foreign
consultants' involvement and responsibility for on-site quality control, which require
daily presence. This important function rests predominantly with the local supervision
staff whose experience and effectiveness are limited.
78.   The outcome on sectoral development under the project, in the context of the
RDB and PMS programs, was mixed. While the development and application of PMS
outputs for achieving an improved mechanism for the distribution of road funds for the
maintenance and improvement of the road network was satisfactory, the RDB
development did not take off as expected, and its development is likely to remain slow.
The establishment of a traffic surveillance and monitoring system for the Nanchang
Bridge was regarded as useful, particularly in light of the plan to integrate such a system
with the overall traffic monitoring system designed for the major arterial street system of
Nanchang City.
79.   The level of technology transfer through training was not easy to measure due to a
lack of well-defined baseline parameters. The training program, although for a price,
provided a satisfactory level of exposure to new concepts and incentives for adopting new
approaches. However, the program involved fewer trainees than it could have had with a
better mix of training abroad and locally organized courses/seminars, involving local
institutions and a well-balanced participation of local and foreign experts.  The
technology transfer through modern equipment for the operation and maintenance of the
highway should achieve its objectives and ensure that the new facilities will be efficiently
operated and adequately maintained.



- 27 -
80.   Overall, the project was implemented within the terms of the Development Credit
Agreement and in substantial compliance with Bank Group procedures. IDA financing
was not extended to any component of the project without obtaining prior clearance from
the Bank Group.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
81.   The Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration Bureau (JPHCHAB)
is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the NJH. A manual for the
administration, management and operations of the NJH is under preparation. JPHCHAB
intends to carry out an economic and a financial evaluation every three years, using the
following monitoring parameters: traffic volumes, traffic accident records, toll rates, toll
revenues, maintenance and repair expenditures, reestimated ERRs, net benefits, net
present values and the status of credit repayment. Regarding the PMS, JPHAB intends to
make an even better use of the system by attempting to optimize the benefits through a
more critical allocation of maintenance funds based on PMS output data. The Province
will make further efforts to build up its RDB, for which MOC's more active support will
be needed. The Province's primary objective will be to collect and maiintain information
on the recently built and improved highways.
82.   A  Traffic Monitoring System  has already been established for obtaining
continuous records of traffic movements on the Nanchang Bridge. It will be fully
integrated into the Nanchang City's traffic surveillance system. NURCB intends to
prepare a manual for administration management and operations for the Nanchang Bridge
Complex similar to that of the manual being prepared by JPHCHAB.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
83.   The key lessons learned, which also take into consideration the Bank Group's
experience on still ongoing but substantially completed prcjects, are presented as follows.
They highlight critical issues that will require urgent attention and actions in the interest
of improving the implementation of ongoing and future hig,hway projects in China.
(a)   The quality of highway civil works cornstruction in China has been
uneven, and the implementation of the civil works under this project is
indicative of the high risk of encountering quality deficiencies on highway
construction works. The shortage of experienced contractors and, in
general, the contractors' lack of adequate resources seemn to be the major
reasons for eventual quality defects. Although there has been some
tightening of the prequalification criteria under Bank, Group-financed
highway projects approved in FY92 and thereafter, there is an urgent need
for a stricter insistence on establishing thal prequalification requirements
are met in order to prevent the prequalification of ill-prepared construction
enterprise for high-class highway contracts.  To achieve sufficient
improvement in this area in the future, the provincial transport
departments involved should be required to document to the Bank Group



- 28 -
conclusively that the prequalified contractors have the technical and
managerial experience, manpower, equipment and financial resources to
carry out the construction of the project highway to the required technical
standards. Such documentation should be endorsed by MOC.
(b)   As indicated above, the quality problem is closely related to the shortage
of experienced contractors in China to carry out civil works in compliance
with technical specifications for high-class highways under stringent
contracting requirements. There should be, therefore, an urgent follow-up
on the recommendations of the recently completed Japanese Grant-funded
Highway Construction Industry Study and Survey, which identified some
of the key impediments to the efficient operation of the highway
construction industry in China. The Central Government and the Bank
Group will need to work together intensively, and fornulate a strategy and
an action plan for addressing the multifaceted issues constraining the
development of a more capable highway construction industry.
(c)   There is a tendency to stipulate contract periods that are not commensurate
with the size and complexity of the contracts, and the capacity and
resources of the contractors. Furthermore, the target dates commonly set
for the opening of the newly built highways to traffic disregard the
technical realities of the status of works in relation to the contractors'
ability and resources to meet such targets. Such a practice is detrimental
to the quality of works, and increases the risks of premature deterioration
of the condition of the highway, higher-than-normal maintenance
expenditures and higher cost to the road user because of poor pavement
conditions and reduced road safety.  The Central and Provincial
Governments should recognize that arbitrarily set targets for completion of
highway construction works are counterproductive. The Bank Group
should also be more alert and circumspect in clearing contract documents
with unreasonably short construction periods.
(d)   The Bank Group should be more alert to ensure that Bank Group financing
does not cover seriously defective phases of works. To mitigate such
risks, further efforts should be made to strengthen highway construction
supervision capability and efficiency nationwide. There should be a
strategy for the establishment of local consultant entities for construction
supervision services as a matter of high priority, aiming for the creation of
a competent and independent construction supervision consultant industry
in China. Such an industry could initially provide supervision services in
joint ventures with foreign consulting firms, and eventually on its own.
An initiative along these lines has already been made under the Second
Henan Provincial Highway Project, which should be monitored, and if
found satisfactory, be followed up expeditiously by the Central
Government and the Bank Group. In addition, the Bank Group should



- 29 -
mount frequent and intensive technical supervision missions for projects
with implementation and quality problems. These could take the form of
well-timed thematic technical audits involving foreign and local experts
and senior Central Government personnel.
(e)   The major discrepancy between forecast and de-facto traffic levels on the
Nanchang Bridge and the Connecting Road could be related to the
inadequate analysis of land use and probable traffic patterns in the larger
Nanchang City area during the preparation of the feasibility study for the
project's civil works. Similar deficiencies have been noted in connection
with the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project (ICR Report No. 15700,
May 15, 1996) and on several ongoing 'Bank Group-financed highway
projects that include highways with alignments encroaching on urban or
suburban areas. The lack of more stringent analysis of key parameters in
the feasibility study phase could lead to poorly formulated investment
decisions or costly design changes to accommodate urban growth. The
issue of inadequate information on land use planLning, uncritically
formulated traffic forecasting and lack of coordination between provincial
and municipal authorities during project preparation warrant nationwide
attention, as well as the Bank Group's greater attention to these matters
during the preparation of highway projects.
(f)   The excessively high rate of accidents on the new NJH highlights the
importance of formulating a comprehensive road safety policy and
strategy for China. The Bank Group should continue its initiatives and
intensify its efforts to engage the Central Governnment in China in
dialogues leading to the formulation of a comprehensive Road Safety
Strategy for China.
(g)   Considering the relatively high person-months cost and the small number
of staff participation noted under the project's staff training program, the
planning, preparation and execution of future training programs under
Bank financed highway projects will need to be prepared and executed
more carefully to ensure that the programs become more effective and a
larger portion of the staff will have the opportunity to participate in the
programs. It is, therefore, highly desirable that the Ministry of Finance,
MOC and the Bank address this issue, pe:rhaps by appointing a technical
training institute in China to coordinale highway subsector training
programs nationwide.



- 30 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Achievement of Objectives
Substantial    Partial   Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                              x
Sector policies                            x
Financial objectives                                                x
Institutional development                   x
Physical objectives             x
Poverty reduction                                                   x
Gender issues                                                       x
Other social objectives                                             x
Environmental objectives                    x
Public sector management                                            x
Private sector development                                          x
Project Sustainability
Likely                    Unlikely                                Uncertain
x
Bank Performance
Highly Satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                                        x
Preparation assistance                                x
Appraisal                                             x
Supervision                                           x
Borrower Performance
Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                                           x
Implementation                                                        x
Covenant compliance                                   x
Operation (if applicable)                             x
Assessment of Outcome
Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory    Highly Unsatisfactory
x



-31 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan Title                                 Purpose              Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
Highway                         Provincial road network expansion/    FY85    Completed
Ln 2539-/Cr 1954-CHA            improvement
Following Operations
Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway  See footnote /1                FY87    Completed
Ln 281 1/Cr 1792-CHA
Sichuan Provincial Highway      See footnote /I                   FY88    Ongoing
Ln2951/Cr 1917-CHA
Shaanxi Provincial Highway      See footnote /1                    FY88   Completed
Ln 2952-CHA
Shandong Provincial Highway     See footnote /1                    FY89   Ongoing
Ln 3073/Cr 2025-CHA
Jiangsu Provincial Transport    See footnote /1                    FY91   Completed
Ln 3316/Cr 2226-CHA
Zhejiang Provincial Highway     See footnote /                     FY92   Ongoing
Ln 347 1-CHA
Henan Provincial Highway        See footnote /L                    FY93   Ongoing
Ln 353 1-CHA
Guangdong Provincial Highway    See footnote /1                    FY93   Ongoing
Ln 3530-CHA
Fujian Provincial Highway       See footnote /1                    FY94   Ongoing
Ln 3681-CHA
Hebei/Henan National Highway    See footnote /1                    FY94   Ongoing
Ln 3748-CHA
Xinjiang Highway I              See footnote /1                    FY95   Ongoing
Ln 3787-CHA
Shanghai-Zhejiang Highway       See footnote /1                    FY96   Ongoing
Ln 3929-CHA
Second Shaanxi Provincial       See footnote /1                    FY96   Ongoing
Highway
Ln 3986-CHA
Second Henan Provincial Highway   See footnote /1                  FY96   Ongoing
Ln 4027-CHA
/1 These highway projects, typically, have had the following components: (a) construction of a major
highway; (b) improvement of provincial roads; (c) procurement of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) institutional development components, such as RDB and PMS programs, staff training and selected
subsector-oriented studies.



-32 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                Date planned        Date actual
Identification                            N/A                03/87
Initial Executive Project Summary         N/A                11/87
Preparation                              07/87               07/87
Preappraisal                              N/A                10/87
Appraisal                                10/87               01/88
Negotiations                             02/88               12/88
Board Presentation                       04/88             02/07/89
Signing                                  02/89             03/16/89
Effectiveness                            05/89             05/31/89
Project Completion                      12/31/94     12/31/94 (substantially)
Credit Closing                          12/31/95           12/31/95



- 33 -
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
($ million)
FY89 FY90 FY91  ]FY92 FY93  FY94 FY95 FY96
Appraisal estimate              0.00   5.00 27.00 43.00 49.00  55.00 61.00  61.00
Actual                          0.00   8.18  17.00 25.94 42.19  56.82 61.37  62.11
Adjusted appraisal estimate/a    0.00   5.09 27.49 43.78  49.89  56.00 62.11  62.11
Actual as % of adjusted          0.0  160.7  61.8  59.3  84.6  101.5  98.8  100.0
estimate
Date of final disbursement                                         December 13, 1995
La Appraisal estimate adjusted for SDRI$ exchange rate variation.
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated              Actual
Start  Complete       Start  Complete
1. Construction of Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway  Jun-89   May-92        Jul-89   Jun-93
2. Construction of Nanchang Bridge and Approaches   Oct-89   Jun-92  May-90   Jan-95
3. Construction of Connecting Road             Jun-90   Jun-92       Oct-92   Dec-94
4. Consulting Services for Supervision
(a) for items I & 3                         Jan-89   May-92       May-89   Dec-92
(b) for item 2                              Jan-89   Jun-92       May-89   Dec-93
5. Equipment for PMS and RDB                   Jul-91   May-92       Jul-95   Dec-95
6. Traffic Monitoring System for Nanchang Bridge  Feb-89   Sep-90    Jul-95   Dec-95
7. Staff Training                              Feb-89  continuous    Jun-91   May-95



- 34 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Length (km)        Traffic (1995 ADT)
Estimated   Actual     Estimated  Actual
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
Jiaoqiao-Aicheng Section           39.20     38.98        5,811    4,522
Aicheng-De'an Section              27.00      24.54       2,160    3,294
De'an-Tongyuan Section             22.00     27.09        2,137    3,271
Tongyuan-Jiujiang Section          24.60     22.21        2,575    3,220
Total                           112.80     112.82
Nanchang Bridge
Section I - East Approach           1.32       1.32      23,371    12,421
Section II - East Approach          2.10      2.10       23,371    12,421
Section III - Main Bridge Complex   2.78      2.78       23,371    12,421
Section IV- West Approach           1.09       1.09      23,371    12,421
Section V- West Approach            1.69       1.69      23,371    12,421
Total                             8.98       8.98
Connecting Road
Southern (Bank-Financed)            6.00      6.00         N/A    5,392
Northern (Province's own resources)    0.00    6.00        N/A    5,392
Total                             6.00      12.00
Grand Total                     127.78     133.80
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
A Jiangxi Highway Data Bank Preparation, Pavement Evaluation and Strengthening
Program and Maintenance Management Study was included in the Project (Terms of
Reference, Annex 2 of the SAR).
However, as elaborated in paras. 55-57 of Part I of the ICR, the study has not been
executed as envisaged, although the objectives of the study have been partially achieved
through the development and application of the PMS, and to a much lesser extent the RDB
program, by JPTD with the assistance of MOC. The programs were supported by the Bank
through the acquisition of equipment for road condition survey.



- 35 -
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COS1TS
(Y million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest
Item                                Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign   Total
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway (NJH)
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway            67.91   83.00   150.91    194.68 237.94   432.62
Connecting Road 6 km                 10.00   10.00    20.00     45.24  45.23    90.47
Consultant services for supervision          2.46     2.46       6.14   2.46      8.60
Equipment for road maintenance        0.00   4.40     4.40       9.85  28.15    38.00
Equipment and expertise for RDB&PMS   0.00    2.60    2.60       0.00   4.72     4.72
Staff Training                        0.00    1.80    1.80       0.00   2.08     2.08
Base Cost                         77.91  104.26   182.17     255.91 320.58   576.49
Physical contingencies (10%)          7.80   10.42    18.22      0.00   0.00      0.00
Price contingencies                  10.02   13.48    23.50      0.00   0.00      0.00
Subtotal                          17.82  23.90    41.72      255.91 320.58   576.49
Land acquisition cost                21.17    0.00    21.17     34.78   0.00    34.78
Total NJH Cost                   116.90  128.16   245.06     277.08 320.58   611.27
Nanchang Bridge Complex (NBC)
Nanchang Bridge and approaches       51.70  88.01   139.71     120.08 204.45   324.53
Consultant services for supervision   7.02   2.00     2.00       7.02   3.17    10.19
Equipmentformaintenance               0.51    0.00    0.51       0.15   1.93     2.08
Equipment for traffic management      0.00    0.74    0.74       0.80   1.60     2.40
Staff Training                        0.00    0.48    0.48       0.00   0.20     0.20
Base Cost                         59.23  91.23   143.44      128.05 211.35   339.40
Physical contingencies (10%)          5.23    9.12    14.35      0.00   0.00     0.00
Price contingencies                   6.73   11.78    18.51      0.00   0.00     0.00
Subtotal                          71.19  112.13   176.30     128.05 211.35   339.40
Land acquisition cost                 6.10    0.00    6.10       0.00  40.45    40.45
Total NBC Cost                    70.27  112.13   182.40     128.05; 251.80   379.85
TOTAL PROJECT COST               187.14  240.29   427.46     128.05 292.25   991.12



- 36 -
TABLE 8B: PROJECT COST
($ million)
Appraisal estimate            Actual/latest
Item                                Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway (NJH)
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway            18.36  22.43    40.79      32.92  40.23    73.15
Connecting Road 6 km                  2.71    2.71    5.42       7.39   7.39    14.78
Consultant services for supervision   0.00   0.66     0.66       1.12   0.50      1.62
Equipment for road maintenance        0.00    1.20    1.20       1.70   4.90     6.60
Equipment and expertise for RDB&PMS   0.00   0.48     0.48       0.00   0.57     0.57
Staff Training                        0.00    0.72    0.72       0.00   0.51     0.51
Base Cost                         21.07  28.20    49.27      43.13  54.10    97.23
Physical contingencies (10%)          2.11    2.82    4.93       0.00   0.00     0.00
Price contingencies                   1.16   1.49     2.65       0.00   0.00     0.00
Subtotal                           3.27   4.31     7.58      43.13  54.10    97.23
Land acquisition cost                 5.72   0.00     5.72       7.40   0.00     7.40
Total NJH Cost                    30.06  32.51    62.57      50.53  54.10   104.63
Nanchang Bridge Complex (NBC)
Nanchang Bridge and approaches       13.97  23.80    37.77      21.32  36.29    57.61
Consultant services for supervision   0.00    0.54    0.54       1.30   0.85     2.15
Equipment for maintenance             0.14    0.00    0.14       0.03   0.35     0.38
Equipment for traffic management      0.00   0.20     0.20       0.09   0.19     0.28
Staff Training                        0.00   0.12     0.12       0.00   0.04     0.04
Base Cost                         14.11  24.66    38.77      22.74  37.72    60.46
Physical contingencies (10%)          1.40   2.47     3.87       0.00   0.00     0.00
Price contingencies                   0.78    1.36    2.14       0.00   0.00     0.00
Subtotal                          16.29  28.49    44.78      22.74  37.72    60.46
Land acquisition cost                 1.65   0.00     1.65       8.60   0.00     8.60
Total NBC Cost                    17.94  28.49    46.43      31.34  37.72    69.06
TOTAL PROJECT COST                48.00  61.00   109.00      81.86  91.83   173.69



-37 -
TABLE 8C: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Source                                Appraisal estimate      Actual/latest estimate
IDA                                           61.0                      62.11
Central Government                            24.2                      36.50
Jiangxi Province                                7.4                      4.94
Nanchang Municipal Government                   9.9                     36.60
Jiangxi Provincial Transport                   6.5                      33.54
Department
109.0                    173.69
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND 13ENEFITS
Costs /a  Elenefits /b   NPV /c   ERR (%)
SAR
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway                242.46     55.66        n.a.      30.1
Nanchang Bridge Complex                  194.45     72.95        n.a.      38.0
Total                                 436.91    128.61        n.a.       n.a.
ICR
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway (Case I) /d    500.81     97.21      927.10      30.2
Nanchang Bridge Complex                  379.03     58.15      106.10      16.6
Connecting Road 12 km                    253.55      9.95     -139.40       4.3
Total                                1,133.39    165.31     934.0       22.6
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway (Case II) /e    1,005.79    178.38   926.40      23.4
Nanchang -Jiujiang Highway (Case III) If  1,005.79    432.64    1,105.60   29.8
/a December 1995 prices
Lb First year benefits (December 1995 prices)
Lc Discount rate = 12%
/d Two-lane NJH, opening in 1993.
/e Four-lane NJH, opening in 1996.
Lf Four-lane NJH, assumed opening in 2003.



- 38 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-              Original     Revised
Agree-                 nant             fulfillment   fulfillment
ment      Section     type    Status       date         date            Description of covenant            Comments
Credit    2.02(b)        I        C         N/A           N/A       Opens Special Account and operates
it according to Schedule 4 of the
Development Credit Agreement
3.01(a)        5        C        N/A           N/A       Commitment to project objectives
and meeting obligations by
Beneficiary under the Project
Agreement
3.01(b)        3        C        N/A           N/A        Satisfactory onlending arrangement
to Beneficiary
3.02           5        C        N/A           N/A       Compliance with Schedule 3 of the
Development Credit Agreement
3.03           5        C        N/A           N/A       Meeting requirements of General
Conditions, Sections 9.03-9.08
4.01           1        C        N/A           N/A       Maintaining adequate financial
recording and auditing reporting
requirement
Project   2.01           5        C         N/A          N/A        Commitment to project objectives
and meeting obligations by
Beneficiary under the Project
Agreement
2.02           5        C        N/A           N/A       Compliance with Schedule 3 of
Development Credit Agreement
2.03           5        C        N/A           N/A        Meeting requirements of General
Conditions, Sections 9.03-9.08
2.04(a)        9        C        N/A           N/A       Exchange of views with the Bank
2.04(b)       9         C        N/A           N/A       Information on interference with
project implementation
2.05          12        C        N/A           N/A       Carry out staff training plans as
agreed
2.06           7        C        N/A           N/A       Carry out resettlement actions as
agreed
Covenant Class:                                                                        Status:
I = Accounts/audits                   8 = Indigenous people                         C    = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue     9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting         CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of project        covered by categories 1-9
funds                           11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                    budgetary or other resources
5 =Management aspects of the               allocation
project or executing agency     12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement         13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
Statement (OD or OP/BP)



-39 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS (staff weeks)
FY               1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997   Total
Preappraisal       7.8    19.0      -       -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -      26.8
Appraisal          -       6.7    11.7      -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -      18.4
Negotiations       -       -       7.6      -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       7.6
Supervision        -       -       2.8      8.0     7.2     6.8      9.9     3.8     5.3      5.2     -      43.8
Completion         -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -        -       7.7     6.0    13.6
Total /a        7.8    25.7    22.1      8.0     7.2     6.8      9.9     3.8     5.3    12.9      6.0   110.3
/a As of July 31, 1996.
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specializedl    Imple-       Devel-
Stage of project cycle         Month/    No. of    Days        staff skills   mentation     opment       Type of
year     persons   in field   represented ta    status /b  objectives    problems
Identification                  03/87        3         6       EN,EC,TE
Preparation                     07/87        3         6       EC,TS,RA
Preappraisal                    10/87        3         4       EN,EN,TE
Appraisal                       01/88        2         5         EN,TE
Negotiation                      12/88       4         -      EN,TE,LC,DO
Board approval                  02/89        -
Signing                         03/89
Effective                       05/89        -         -
Supervision 1                   05/89        2         3         EN,EN            I            I
Supervision 2                   11/90        1         6          EN              3            1
Supervision 3                   06/91        2         6         EN,TP            3            1
Supervision 4                   06/92        3         7     EN,EN(cons),         3            1            Lc
Op.0
Supervision 5                   10/92        3         5      EN,CIS,Op.O         2            1
Supervision 6                   04/94        1         5           EN             2            1
Supervision 7 and Completion 1    07/95      1         4           EN             S            S
Completion 2                    04/96        1         5           RA
La EN: Engineer, EC: Economist; TE: Transport Economist; TS: Transport Specialist; LC: Legal Counsel; DO: Disbursement
Officer; RA: Research Analyst; CIS: Construction Industry Specialist; Op.O: Operation Officer (RMC).
Lb 1: Highly satisfactory; 2: Satisfactory; 3: Unsatisfactory; S: Satisfactory.
/c Typical problems included: poor performance of contractors, the executing agencies' lack of effective management, excessive
quality defects.



I



-41-                       ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Preface
1.   In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project
(Report No. 7430-CHA), the economic evaluation was presented for the construction of:
(a) a two-lane highway between Nanchang and Jiujiang; and (b) a new major bridge and
approach roads in the southeastern part of Nanchang City.
2.    The economic analysis presented in the ICR is based on updated data on traffic,
vehicle operating cost (VOC), economic cost and r oad user benefits and revised
assumptions regarding future traffic growth rates. The methodology used in the economic
analysis for this ICR is similar to that used in the SAR and is summarized as follows:
(a)   capital investment and maintenance costs have been revised to reflect
constant December 1995 prices and are included in the cost stream;
(b)   the benefit stream, also reflect December 1995 prices, and consists of
savings in VOC, reduced traffic congestion on the existing road, and cost
savings on account of accident reduction;
(c)   a project life of 20 years has been assumed and the capital investment period
for all roads is from 1989 to 1994 or 1996 depending on the alternatives
considered; and
(d)   full benefits started to accrue on the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway in 1993
and on the Nanchang Bridge in 1994.
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY (NJH)-Two LANE (CASE I)
3.    As in the SAR, the NJH was divided into four sections for economic evaluation.
(a)   Section 1: from Jiaoqiao (north of Nanchang City) to Aicheng (38.98
km);
(b)   Section 2: from Aicheng to De'an (24.54 km);
(c)   Section 3: from De'an to Tongyuan (27.09 km); and
(d)   Section 4: fromn Tongyuan to Jiujiang (22.21 km).
Cost and benefit analysis were carried out separately for each section as well as the
highway as a whole.



- 42 -                          ANNEX 1
Corridor Traffic
4.     The 1995 corridor traffic and its distribution between the arterial road and NJH is
presented in the following table, indicating SAR forecast and actual traffic census data.
NUMBER OF MOTORIZED VEHICLES PER DAY (ADT) FOR 1995
The Arterial Road   The New Highway  Total Corridor  Diversion Factor (DF)
(1)               (2)          (3)=(1)+(2)         (4(2)/(3)
SAR
Section 1            6,922             5,811             12,733            45.6%
Section 2              925             2,160              3,085            70.0%
Section 3             534              2,137              2,671            80.0%
Section 4             644              2,575              3,220            80.0%
Actual
Section 1            1,721             4,522              6,243            72.4%
Section 2            1,215             3,294              4,509            73.1%
Section 3             993              3,271             4,264             76.7%
Section 4            1,451             3,656              5,107            71.6%
(Actual/SAR) Ratios
Section 1              24.9%              77.8%             49.0%            -
Section 2              131.4%            152.5%            146.2%            -
Section 3              186.0%            153.1%            159.6%            -
Section 4             225.3%             142.0%            158.7%            -
Sources: Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway Administration Bureau and Bank staff.
5.     As shown above, the 1995 corridor traffic (i.e., the sum of traffic on the parallel
sections of the existing arterial road and the new highway), except for Section 1, was
much higher than the SAR estimates. The distribution of the corridor traffic between the
existing arterial road and NJH, on Sections 2, 3, and 4 were not substantially different
from that expected at project appraisal in percentage terms. However, on Section 1 the
percentage of traffic diverted was about 27 percent higher than the SAR estimate, based
on the SAR forecast and actual volumes of traffic. The Diversion Factor (DF) indicates
that in 1995, about 75 percent of the corridor traffic preferred to use the NJH. Although,
DF, on the average, differed only slightly from SAR prediction, with the significantly
higher corridor traffic growth than forecast, the volume of traffic in 1995 was more than
50 percent higher on the NJH than forecast, except on Section 1 for which the SAR
forecast was inexplicable high.
Traffic Projection
6.     Normally, the buildup of traffic on a new highway, particularly when it operates
as a toll facility, is gradual. Compared with toll highways opened for traffic recently in



-43 -                     ANNEX 1
China, the traffic diversion factor in the early years of opening has been higher on the
NJH than on the others. This is likely to be a consequence of the difference of 58.5 km in
the length between NJH and the arterial road (171.3 km versus 112.8 km). Because of
the high rate of traffic growth in the recent years on most sections of the highway, the
ICR estimate for the long-term traffic growth rate (1993-2015) for the NJH is in the range
of 8.2 percent and 8.6 percent.
7.    The traffic projections by sections are summarized as follows:
TRAFFIC FORECAST COMPARISON (ADT)
Section 1   Section 2    Section 3    Section 4
Jiaoqiao-   Aicheng-      De'an-      Tongyuan-
Aicheng      De'an       Tongyuan      Jiujiang
SAR
1993                      4,693        1,748        1,725        2,088
1994                      5,221        1,943        1,919        2,318
1995                      5,811        2,160        2,137        2,575
2000                      9,983        3,692        3,679        4,390
2010                     22,867        8,525        8,602        9,963
2015                     34,841       13,042       13,234       15,140
Average growth p.a.
1993-2015               9.6%         9.6%         9.6%         9.6%
ICR
1993                      3,239        2,190        2,267        2,432
1994                      4,016        2,879        2,903        3,114
1995                      4,522        3,294        3,271        3,656
2000                      7,118        5,186        5,149        5,756
2010                     14,329       10,442       10,367       11,585
2015                     18,288       13,327       13,232       14,786
Average growth p.a.
1993-2015               8.2%         8.6%         8.3%         8.6%
Note: All figures are rounded.
8.    The projected traffic for the four sections of the NJH for year 1993-2015, by
vehicle type, is detailed in Table IA of this Annex. For years 1993-1995, actual traffic
data have been used. For subsequent years, the following growth rates have been
assumed: (a) normal traffic is estimated to increase by 9.5 percent between 1995 and
2000, thereafter, the growth rate has been reduced by 1.5 percent for each five-year



-44 -                      ANNEX 1
period to 5 percent in 2015, and (b) the generated traffic in the ICR was assumed to be 10
percent of normal traffic.
9.    By comparison, in the SAR the normal traffic growth rate for the NJH was 11.4
percent between 1995 and 2000; 8.6 percent between 2000 and 2005; 8.7 percent between
2005 and 2010; and 8.8 percent between 2010 and 2015. The generated traffic growth
rate was assumed to be 10 to 20 percent of the normal traffic. In the SAR, it was
assumed that railway passengers would be inclined to divert to the new highway.
However, the railway passenger diversion assumption has been eliminated since there has
been no sufficient reason to assume that bus fares would be attractive enough to bring
about the diversion of rail passengers.
Economic Costs
10.   The economic cost reflects the financial cost of civil works (Table 2), adjusted for
shadow prices (Table 3). The overall effect of the differences in shadow prices and in
financial costs between the SAR and ICR estimates of the economic costs of the NJH,
the economic cost in the ICR ( in constant December 1995 prices) is 106.6 percent higher
than the SAR estimate.
ECONOMIC COST COMPARISON (CASE I)
(Y million)
SAR          SAR           ICR         ICR/SAR
(Jan 1988)   (Dec 1995)   (Dec 1995)       (in%)
Jiaoqiao-Aicheng           66.20        84.22        202.19       +140.1%
Aicheng-De'an              45.60        58.01         90.37        +55.8%
De'an-Tongyuan             37.20        47.33        110.01       +132.4%
Tongyuan-Jiujiang          41.58        52.90         98.24        +85.7%
Total                  190.58        242.46       500.81       +106.6%
Economic Benefits
11.   The economic analysis includes the benefits derived from: (a) VOC savings on
the new highway for normal and generated traffic, (b) relieved congestion on the existing
road, and (c) saving in accident costs. The updated VOC per km for the various types of
vehicles is presented in Table 4.
12.   Based on the actual redistribution of corridor traffic after the opening of the NJH
for traffic, it is estimated that about 75 percent of the vehicles would travel on the new
highway. Consequently, congestion on the existing arterial road is expected to be



-45 -                             ANNEX I
resulting in 15 percent saving of the VOC between 1993 and 1995. Thereafter, because
of the gradual buildup of traffic on the existing arterial road, the savings would be
reduced by 1 percent for each of remaining five-year periods to 11 percent by 2015.
13.    In 1990, there were, on the average, 1.47 accidents per km per year on the existing
arterial road. After the opening of the new highway for traffic, in 1993, the average
number of accidents on the arterial road was reduced lto 1.10 per km per year. For
estimating road accident cost savings, it was assumed thai: the reduction in the number of
accidents, resulting from the construction of the new highway, would be 0.4 accident per
km per year at a cost of Y 10,000 for each accident.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis (Case I)
14.    Cost and benefit streams, economic rate of return (ERR) and net present value
(NPV) for the highway are presented in Table 5A and for the four individual sections of
NJH in Table 5a-5d. The overall ERR on the highway investment is estimated to be 30.2
percent versus the SAR estimate of 30.1 percent. Sensitivity Analysis information for
SAR and ICR is presented the following table.
Section I   Section 2    Section 3    Section 4
Jiaoqiao-    Aicheng-    De'an-    Tongyuan-    Total
Aicheng    De'an     Tongyuan   Jiujiang    Highway
SAR
Bestestimate of rate of return               33.6%      31.4%      30.0%      21.9%      30.1%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
20% increase in costs and best estimate of benefits  30.6%  28.4%  27.2%      19.9%      27.5%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
20% decrease in benefits and best estimate of costs  29.9%  27.4%  26.6%      19.4%      26.7%
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
20% increase in costs and 20% decrease in benefits  27.2%  25.6%   24.9%      17.6%      24.2%
(%)
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                     n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
ICR
Best estimate of rate of return              39.3       34.8       18.8       14.4       30.2
NPV(12%,millionYuan)                      620.0      222.6       64.9       19.6      927.1
20% decrease in benefits and best estimate of costs  33.9  29.9    15.7       11.7       25.8
NPV (12%, million Yuan)                   459.9      161.9       32.3       (1.9)     652.2
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY (NJH)-FoUR-LANE (CASE II)
15.    The implementation of the two-lane NJH  was still proceeding when Jiangxi
Province decided to widen the NJH from two lanes to a four-lane divided highway,
financed from the Province's own resources. The construction of the widening started in
1994 and is expected to be fully completed by the end of 1996. However, the second
carriageway was already opened for traffic in early 1996. The estimated economic cost
of the investment is about Y 505.00 million (in constant December 1995 prices) (Table
2). The four-lane NJH is expected to further reduce VOC in terms of less fuel
consumption, increased travel speed and reduced congestion. The ERR for the four-lane



-46 -                     ANNEX I
highway is estimated to be 23.4 percent. (Table SB). Moreover, there is a potential for a
higher rate of generated traffic than assumed because NJH has been operating as a four-
lane divided highway from early 1996, and therefore, traffic and ERR estimates for the
ICR could turn out to be somewhat conservative.
16.   Nevertheless, a lower ERR for the four-lane alternative (Case II) versus the two-
lane version of the NJH indicated that despite a higher-than-expected traffic growth, the
investment in the widening of the NJH may have been premature. An additional analysis
has indicated that a close to optimum timing for providing the second carriageway would
have been in year 2003, by which time, according to ICR assumptions, the traffic volume
would be in the range of 6,000-7,000 vpd, a threshold of capacity constraint for a two-
lane highway.  The estimated ERR for such scenario (Case III) is 29.8 percent
(Table 5C), which is very close to the ERR percentage for the two-lane NJH (Case I) of
30.2 percent (Table 5A).
CONNECTING ROAD
17.   Originally, the southern point of the NJH was supposed to be joined to the
existing arterial road at Jiaoqiao, and from a point south on the arterial road, a 6-km
connecting road was planned to link up with the Nanchang Bridge Complex (NBC). The
economic cost of the connecting road was estimated at Y 24.22 million (or Y 30.81
million in December 1995 prices) but an economic evaluation for this 6-km link was not
presented in the SAR.  This earlier concept for the Connecting Road had been
reconsidered by the Province and JPTD submitted to the Bank a feasibility study for a
revised scheme in 1992, according to which the southern end of the NJH was to be
connected to the NBC with a 12-km four-lane Class 1 highway on a more direct
alignment. The feasibility study's proposal was reviewed by the Bank in December 1992
and was found to be viable with an ERR of 14.7 percent at an economic cost of Y 204.5
million, which included the cost of the construction of the Changling Interchange.
Because the need for an additional interchange at Shalljia and several other structures to
provide grade separation for local and through traffic, the economic cost of the
Connecting Road increased by about 24 percent to Y 253.55 million (Table 2).
18.   The feasibility study's traffic forecast of an average 8,500 vpd for 1995 have not
materialized. As indicated in Table lb, the 1995 traffic reached the level of only about
5,400 vph on the average, about 37 percent below the expected level, which represents
only about 50 percent of the traffic of the NJH at its southern end. This indicates that
about half of the NJH traffic is diverting to the existing arterial road as its main access
route to the Nanchang City area.
19.   The actual and forecast traffic for the Connecting Road is shown in Table IB,
indicating an estimated average annual growth rate of about 7.1 percent (1995-2015).
Because of the substantially lower traffic level and the higher financial cost than forecast,
the ERR estimate for the Connecting Road is only 4.3 percent (Table 6). Since the
Connecting Road is the extension of the NJH and its main purpose is to provide a direct



-47 -                           ANNEX 1
link to the NBC, it could be treated as an integral part of the overall corridor
improvement. The combined ERR or the two-lane NJEI (Case I) and the Connecting
Road is estimated at 25.0 percent.
NANCHANG BRIDGE COMPLEX (NBC)
Background
20.    Until the completion of the NBC, the Nanchang City and the national and
provincial road networks traversing the City had been served by two bridges across the
Gan River: (a) the Ganjiang Bridge, built in 1963 primarily as a railway bridge, is
located on the north side of the city. It also accommodates road traffic but only cars and
small-size trucks. Its pavement has been in poor condition and its capacity is severely
limited, and the average speed of traffic across the bridge is only about 10 km per hour;
and (b) the Bayi Bridge, built in 1937 to a low standard, is located on the northwestern
side of the city. Despite its geometric and structural limitations, the bridge still carries a
high proportion of the east-west traffic across the Gan River. Without the new Nanchang
Bridge, which is located in southeast Nanchang City, land transport across the Gan River
would have been severely constrained.
Traffic Demand
21.    After the opening of the NBC the distribution of the traffic among the three
bridges has been as shown in the following table compared to SAR estirnates.
TRAFFIC DISTRIBUTION ACROSS THE GAN RIVER (ADT) IN 1995
Bayi   Ganjiang    Nanchang Bridge (New)              Diversion Factor (DF)
Bridge   Bridge    From   From             Grand    Bayi   Ganjiang  Overall
(Old)    (Old)    Bayi   Ganjiang   Total    Total    Bridge   Bridge   Average
(1)     (2)     (3)      (4)     (5)=    (6)=    (7)=    (8)=       (9)
3+4    1+2+5   3/(1+3)  41(2+4)
ICR (actual)   6,686    2,114    9,437    2,984   12,421   21,221    58.5%    58.5%    58.5%
SAR(estimate)    9,176    1,584   17.038    6,333   23,371   34,131   65.0%    80.0%    68.4%
ICR/SAR        72.9%   133.4%    55.4%    47.1%    53.1%    62.2%     -        -        -
Sources: City Construction Bureau of Nanchang and the Bank staff.
Traffic on the New Nanchang Bridge
22.    Compared with the SAR, the traffic demand across the Gan River in 1995 was
only 62.2 percent of the SAR forecast. Traffic diversion to the new bridge has also been
lower than expected; 58.5 versus 68.4 percent. Combined effect of these factors is that
the traffic on the new Nanchang Bridge is only 53.1 percent of the SAR forecast (12,421
versus 23,371 AADT). The lower-than-expected traffic on the Nanchang Bridge could be
attributable to the following: (a) despite the poor conditions of the two older bridges, still



- 48 -                    ANNEX I
more than 40 percent of the corridor traffic uses these bridges, which most likely provide
shorter origin and destination routes for the central part of Nanchang City; (b) the buildup
of through traffic that would bypass the City or traffic which would have more
convenient entry to the southeast part of the City from the new bridge, still has not taken
place; (c) the tolling of the new bridge likely presented a greater-than-expected deterrent
to road users.
23.  In the absence of a comprehensive traffic origin and destination survey, it could
be assumed that the actual growth rates of the recent years and the distribution of traffic
will not change substantially in the foreseeable future, particularly, since Nanchang
Municipality has recently commenced construction of a new Bayi Bridge in the city
center to increase overall corridor capacity across the Gan River, which will eliminate the
bottleneck effect of the present Bayi Bridge.
Traffic Projection
24.   Consequently, a conservative approach was taken for the ICR's traffic projection
for the NBC because overall traffic demand across the Gan River has been much lower
than expected, and it is unlikely that present DF would increase more than marginally in
the foreseeable future. Therefore, the long-term traffic growth rate (1995-2015) for the
new NBC was assumed to be in the range of 4.5 percent versus 8.8 percent assumed in
the SAR. Traffic volumes and traffic growth rates for each of the three bridges are shown
in Table I B, and summarized below:
TRAFFIC FORECAST FOR THE THREE BRIDGES (ADT)
Bayi      Ganjiang    Nanchang       Total
Bridge      Bridge       Bridge      Traffic
SAR
1995                       9,176        1,584      23,371      34,131
2000                      14,887        2,589      37,994       55,470
2010                      32,328        5,755      83,040      121,123
2015                      47,931        8,599     123,390      179,920
Average growth p.a.
1995-2015                8.6%         8.8%        8.7%         8.7%
ICR
1995                       6,686       2,114       12,421      21,221
2000                       9,272        2,360      15,819       27,451
2010                      16,302        3,662      24,568       44,532
2015                      20,690        4,455      29,890       55,035
Average growth p.a.
1995-2015                5.8%         3.8%        4.5%         4.9%
Note: All figures are rounded.



-49 -                      ANNEX 1
Economic Costs
25.   All costs necessary for the completion of the civil works have been taken into
account in the economic evaluation. All inputs and outputs have been evaluated in
constant December 1995 economic prices (Table 2). Financial costs have been converted
to economic costs by shadow pricing using a factor of 0.98, which is the overall
conversion factor used for civil works.
26.   In the ICR, the overall effect of shadowed economic costs for the NBC (in
constant December 1995 prices) was 16.8 percent higher than the current costs (Table 2)
and 94.9 percent higher than the SAR estimate.
PROJECT ECONOMIC COST COMPALRISON
(Y million)
SAR          SAR           ICR        ICR/SAR
(Jan 1988)   (Dec 1995)   (Dec 1995)      (in %)
Nanchang Bridge            156.00       194.45       379.03       +94.9%
Complex
Economic Benefits
27.   Based on the actual traffic volumes, it was estimated that about 58.5 percent of
traffic from the two existing bridges would divert to the new bridge. Less traffic on the
two existing and the inner city street network would reduce the congestion and VOC of
the vehicles. It was assumed that 15 percent of the VOC would be saved between 1993
and 1995. Thereafter, because of the gradual buildup of traffic on the two existing
bridges and the street network, the savings would be reduced by 1 percent for each of the
remaining five-year periods to 11 percent by 2015.
28.   In 1993, before the completion of the new bridge, the total number of accidents
for the two old bridges were more than 10 accidents per year. In 1995, after the opening
of the new bridge for traffic, the total number of accidents for the two old bridges was
reduced to two accidents per year. For estimating road accident cost savings, it was
assumed that the reduction in the number of accidents, resulting from the construction of
the new bridge, would be nine accidents per year at a cost of Y 10,000 for each accident.
Economic Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
29.   Table 5D presents the ERR, NPV, first-year return and sensitivity calculations for
the NBC. The ERR of the new bridge is estimated 16.6 percent versus the SAR estimate



- 50 -                     ANNEX 1
of 38 percent. Compared with the SAR, the sensitivity of the ERR and NPV of the
project to variations in costs and benefits are summarized as follows:
SAR          ICR
Best estimate of rate of return                       38.0%         16.6%
NPV (12%, Y million)                                 n.a.        106.1
20% decrease in benefits and best estimate of costs   33.6%         13.8%
NPV (12%, Y million)                                 n.a.         28.5
THE OVERALL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
30.   The overall ERR for investment in the civil works components of the project,
including the two-lane NJH (Case I), the Connecting Road and the NBC is 22.6 percent
and NPV (at 12 percent) is Y 934 million. In the SAR, an overall ERR and NPV for the
same components were not presented.
Bridge   Highway    Total
Best estimate of rate of return (%)
ICR                                             16.6       25.0/a    22.6
SAR                                             38.0       30.1        n.a.
NPV (12%, Y million, December 1995 prices)
ICR                                            106.1      827.9      934.0
SAR                                              n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
/a Including the Connecting Road.



Table I A: Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway Traffic Summary
(ADT)
Width (DD) /_LI                     N. ot o lane                             Geodkrlert (1k. I.%) 12                      Road clss                               Road 6  ud4loe                      Ag. peed k..oer)                                           >
I        Ii        III      IV         I          II        Ill       IV         I        II        Ill       IV         I                  It IIl   IV          I         11        III      IV          I        It        III      IV
Old rood:
Oroad7.00         7.50      6.00      6.00     3          2                   2          F         F         It        U         It        it        11       It        rd        n Fair For Far       ok        as1   5        33    5        31                                 0
b     7.75      7.75      6.75      6.75                                            13.0%      8.0%      8.0%      8.0%     (Paved)  (Paved)  (Po.ed)  (Paved)
New road:
o      9.0       9.0       9,0       9.0     2          2         2         2         F         F          If        hl        I         I         I         I       Good      ood       Good      Cood       70        70        70        70
b     10.5      10.5      10.5      10.5                                             2.0%      3.5%      3.1%      4.0%     (Paved)  (Po .d)  (Paved)  (Paved)                                                                                                                  Z
-S ..II Car   -   ----- Medloa. B.-                          --L.oge ou--                  ---S..l Trudk--   --Medlom Truck-  --LArge Trock--  -Trclor-Traer---                                                                To--  
Rood        Wilbot-                      Wilboul                         Wlihoot                       WUhlol                         Wll.ott                      Without                       Without                       Wiltout
kegtb (hok)     pr,ject      Wdbl Proje)t      project      Will Prj,ect    project       Will Project      prolect     Wllb Projelt    project       Wilh ProJect      project     Wlth Project    project        Wll Project    project        Wltb ProJect
Old      New        Old      New       Old        Old       New        Old       Old      New        Old       Old       New       Old       Old      New        Old       Old      Now        Old       OW        New       Old       Old       New        Old            >
rood      rood      road      rood     rood       rood       rood      rd        rood      road      road      road      rood      rood      rood      rood      rod       road      rood      road      rood      rood      rood      rood      road      road            >
SectIon 1: .Ilooqloo Akl.oerg 
1993     75.00     35.98       993      710       283         757       561       196       254       182       112       742       426       316     1.261       970       291       4119      256       233        170       134       36      4.706     3,239     1,467          t
1994                         1.423       994       429        969       713       256       310       203       107       871       597       274      1,385    1,103       2U2       497       269       225        157       137       20      5.612     4,016     1.596          C_
1995                         1,717     171,42     573       1.,I115     93        315       3214      223       151       917       655       232     1,454     I.212       272       525       303       222        135       154        4      6.2,43    4.522     1,721   1~    >
20G0                         2.6          04     1.76                 12643      442      493       31        142      1.403      5785  3225        2.209     1.958       381       700       477       312       2458      242         6      9,531     7,115     2 413            '
2005                         3.827      i642     1,185       I56      1.857       649       724       516       208      2.562     1.584      478     3.363     2,803       560      1,158      701       457        364       356         8    14.004    10,459     3.545 Z
2010                         5.243     3,620     1,623      3.433     2544        889       992       707       253      2.825     2,170      655     4,608    3.840        768      1,587      960       627       499       488         11    19.187    14,329     4,858 
2015                         6,692     4.620     2072       4.382     3,247      1.135    1.266       902       364      3,606     2,770      836     .5081     4,901       980      2,525     1,225      806        637       623        14   24,489    18,255      6,201    0        
Accoo 26005         5.355                                                                                                                             ~'                                                                                                                                        .
Setlcdo 11: W Akh.- Dea-
1553     42.00     2454        834       530       304        549       386       163       162       113        49       583       318       265       915       611       304       251       152        99        118        80       38      3.412     2190      1.222          =
1994                         1,113      769       344         654       516       178       ISO       134        46       760       461       299       947       731       216       234       177        57        101       91         10     4,029     2879      1,150
1995                         1.196       847       349        784       556       198       235       161        74       805       500       297      1.088      867       221       254       216        68        117       109         8     4,509     3,294     1,215
2W0                          18622     1335       489       1.201       923       278       3157      253       104      1,217      505       417      1,670    1.365       515       435       340        9S        183       172        11     6.890     S.186     1.704          >
2005                         Z6,7      1.959       719      1.764     1,356       408       524       372       152      1,787     1,175      612     2,461     2,056       455       640       500        140      269        223        16    10.123     7.621     2,52
2010                         3.569     2,054      905       2.417     1,358       559       719       315       209      2,445     1.610      039     3.372     2,748       624       877       651       192       370       247         23    13,873    10.442     5,431
2055                         4,664     3.026     19258      3,805     2371        714       918       651       267      3,125     2055      1,070    4.303     3,507       72       1.119      874       245       472        543       29    17,700    13.327      4,379          0
Al..oaRood          0.35o
Sec..G  111 DII aTo-T-gy"a
1993     3070      2709        719       549       170        509       400       109       172       117        55       491       329       162       852       633       219       357       157       200       149        82        67      3.249     2267        982          _
1994                         1,055      761       294        665        519       146       167       138        29       S42       A57        85       96  7 ?52           215       243       i83        60       1UY        93         16     3,748     2903        845
995                        ::77       030       367         7SU       579       171       182       162        20       628       498       130     1.116       865       251       276       225        51        115      112         3      4?264     3,271       993
15503                         1822     3007        SIS      l,ISt       911       240       283       255        ?3       966       724       182     1,7U4     1,362       3S2       426       354        72       1I0        176        4      6.542     5,149     1,393
25s                          2,676     1,920      756       1,691     1.339       352       416       375        41      1,420     1,152      268     2,318     2,001       517       625       520       105       265       259         6      9,611     7,366     2,045           0
2010                         3667      2,631     1.036      2318       1,935      483       570       514        56      1.945     1,378      367     3.451     2742        709       856       712       144       363       355          8    13,170    10,367     2803            U
2015                         4.681     3,358     1.323      2958      2342        616       728       656        72      2,482     Z,14       468     4.404     3,500       904      1,093      909       14        464       453         11    16,810    13.232     3,578
A".. Road           a 00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
S-coUo IV: Tgy0a -Jlujimng 3
1993     23.60     22.21       857      587       270        605       433        172       209       125        84       656       352       304     1,118       695       423       227       157        70       124        83        41      3,796     2,432     1,364
I994                           979      799        180       706        561       145       253       152       101       852       479       373     1.402       844       558       287       184       103       124        95        29      4,603     3.114     1,409
1995                         1.275      914       361       804         653       231      297        183       114       793       548       245     1,439     1,007       432       287       233        54       132       118        14      5.107     3,656     1,451 
205w                         1,945     1,439       506      1,352     1,028       324       448       286       160      1.207      063       344     2,191     1,S59       606       443       367        76       206       116        20      7.792     5,756     2,036
25063                           8N5    2,114      744       i.986    1I310        476       658       423       235      1.773     1,268      305     3,219     2,329      8590       650       539       III       302       273        29    11,446      8,456     2,990
2010                         3,915     2,896     1.019      2.721     2,69        652       902       580       322      2,429     1.737      692     4,411     3.191     1,220       090       738       152       414       374        40    153682    11.585      4.097
2015                         4,997     3,690     1,301      3,473     2641        032     1,131       740       411     3,100      2,217      883     5,630     4,073     1,557      1.137      942       195       527       477        50    20,015    14,786      5,229
Ac.e. Rood          0.00
Tolo 1L3    N.Dcbaoogy.Jlblg HlIIrway
A:    171.30    112.02
1:    171.30    113.87                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,
II: a Road poemeoo             b: Wih oodbed.
/_2: F: FIK          H: Hidy. M: Muow.Ooi o.r.
1 3:   WA 0d01 the accea. rod; B:   d:th   occh   roa. .
/4: All 1h. bgora ace a.ood.d.



Table I B: Nanchang Bridge Complex and Connecting Road Traffic Summary
(ADI)                                                                                                                                                    m
Southern AcceSS Rond:                  Grtktlt                                 Awverge
No. of of Ion.I                                        Aver-g, oped (kbo ,>)                                              Vidth    No. of   (m,nL    Rood        Rood                 perd
Bridge Wdth to) Li             (o,lepkt$. Yor)           C-dtlon/(Paveet)               T.tl blddgtengthb()                                               (0,)'_3    tn.     b%)         doss  condtiton            Qsdbour)
Con-        a,                Gon.    NMn-                  C..-   NMo- o.8n-    Nun-                                                   Old Iood
Doyi    pW.g      ch"^g      Ba3yl     pany g    otrg    Hoyt         oig    oboe5       Boyt    (tng    rhung                                           a     9.00     2        81Yt       II       Fdor               45.0
- -  -  -  ---  -                                                                                                 b    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.50  5%
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Noev rood@
A.   7.0       9.0      21.0       2          2        12        Pole     Peor    CGod    I5-0          10        40                                                7 2.50   4        Ylo         I      Good                80.0                                      >
b.   10.0     18.7      10.4    (5933)    (1l63)    (19"4)  (Pa0d)  (Pawd)  (PAved) 1,26.50  1,226.13 2,790.00                                                b     2.50              2%
Trn-.port    --S.o C --    -Medlum Bu.---    - Lre Hu-    --1 Truck-   -Medium Trueb-  -----l.rg Truck-  -.Troctr(Trker-                                                                                                        T-Utl;
0tt.0- 1k.u)  WVtbout        vWh Proleot  vWthout           With Projeot   sAth.ot       Witb Projet   Without         Wit Proect   Withuot         With Project   Wtihout       Wmth Project   Withorut       Wih Projeot   Witiout         With Project
by ul.g /2       project    -              -   projeCt                      proeJct                ---   projet                         pr,*ftt   ____-_             proj.ot                      project   -                   prqeclt
Shift4 t1.   StoYlO           Shiftttu   styti   -          Ibtttto   ittt 1.            Shifito   sty   -. - -. Ot L.   sheyho                     ShOtto   stoy h   -    -     Shitttft t.   5y0      - - Shift tt    Stoy t
Old      N         O0d   the new   tb eld        Old   the oe    theoid        Od    the oe    thhe old     Old   the ne,   the old       Old   the uce   the old      Old   the new   theold       Otd   the w res   tht old     Old   the .,w   tbrold
brldg    bldgp    bridge    bridge         brdgp  bridge        bridge    briddg bridge    brldde            br dg.   bridge   bridge    bIdge    brbt    bVidge    brldp    bhldd         bridge    brdge    b bridge    0dg4    bridge    bridge    bridge
/Rood    IRe d    ARood   /IRoed    /Rood    Mond    /Rmod    /Rod    /Rood    (Rood    (Rood    (Rood    (Rosd   /Rood    /Rnod    Mood    (Rood    (Rood    fRood    (Rood    /Rood    (Rood    (Road    /Rood    (Rood    oRnod
Royl Bridge:    17.00     13500
1995                         4.070     2855     2,023      4,360     2.552     1,.00      152        89        63     3.658     2.141     1.517     1,630      954       676      919       538  38     1       526       308       218    161.23     9.437     6,6K0         >
2000                         80700     3,815     4,965      3,90    3.410     2.498      982        59       063     3.523     2,861      662      1,559     1,275      294       719      719         0       411       411         0    21S82    1Z610       9272   .,      > .
2005                        10.03)     4,951    6,807      6.750     4.425     3.464     1.122      154      1,156    4,025     3713       918      1,781     1,654      394       821      932         0       470       534         0    25.000    16.363    12,S57
2010                        t0,031     6,070     8,729     6.750     5.425     4.392     1,l22      189      1,518    4,025     4.552     1,164     1.751    2.020       499       sit     1,143        0       470       654         0    25,000    20,061    16,302          <    >
2013                        10.031     7,441    11,07j     6.750     6,651      57:    :,122        232      1.926    4,025     3.780     1,477     1.781    2,487       634      t21      1,40!        A       470       802         0    25.000    24,594    20,690
tloftuu  Bridge:
20.00     13.00 
20.0e                4030 affi  401     284        579       339       240       277       162      1IS       514       301       213       164       96       6a      ,652       567      0s       1,227      71S       509     5.098     2.984     X114
2000                         10064      431       633        635       364      271       175       175         0     1,342      323      1.019      540       103       437     1,040     1,040        0       773       77          0     5.569     3.209     2,3600
2005                         1322       315       007        781      435       346       205       209         0     1,060       256     1.300      600       123       357     1,241     1,241        0       522       522         0     6,841     t831      3,010
2010                         1587       005       902        533       312      421       240       246         0     27035      454      1.581      823       tOS       670     1,400     1,460        0     1,0S5     1.085         0     8.169     4.507     3.662
2015                         1,96       711      1,1953    1,112      601       511       205       209         0     2,458      534      1.924      95        170       323     1.716     1,716        0     1.275     1.275         0     9,751     3206      4,453
Neenehoog Bridge:         13.00 
1990                                  7.256                          2,091                          251                         2.442                        1.050                         1,505                        1.026                        12.421
2000                                  4.246                          3,774                          294                          1084                         1.378 1,759                                               1.1I4 15,819
2003                                   5.466                         4,060                          363                         4,099                         1.777                        2,173                        1.456                        20.194
2010                                   6.675                         5,937                          435                         5,096                         2,173                        2,603                        1,739                        24.536
2015                                   8,152                         7,252                          521                         6.114                        2,657                         3.117                        2.077                        29.S0                           o
Connetdng Rood                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             >
9.00    12.500t
1994                        3,1376      .23     1,S98      1,515      833       982       458       215       253     1,451      743       708      2.456     1.182    1.274      310       274        36       173       141        32     9,809     ,626     5,183
1995                        3504       1,499    2,085      Z031       957      1.061      490       239       251     1,560      055       669      2462     1.295     1.164      342       522        20       177       163        12    10.654     5.392    3.262
2550                         323       2206      2,924     2.900     1.492     1.480      720       360       552     2.321     1.305      530      3.616     1,903     1.633      523      495        28       271       254        17    15,661     8.281     7.380
2005                         7.694     5,388    4,256      4.376     2t192     2.186     1.55       441       5127    3.410     2032      1,378     5,313    2914      2399        760      727        41       398       373        25    23.009    12.167    15.842 
2010                        10478     4,642      50836     59.9      3.003     2995      1,449      741       708     4.672     2,784     1,080     7,279    3,552     3,287     1.052      996        56       595       311        84    31.523    16,669    14.854
2015                        132436     5924      7512      7.65      3,833     3,822     1,850      946       044     5.563     3.553     Z410      9.290    5.095     4,195     1.312     1,271       71      605        652        43    40,231    22,274    18.957                _
1_1:       d roudtmdb    b: WAindthtofthe bridge.
LI2  The loW oWupon dieto.ose, b    n Qiuyounpu (or Ji3prshw) od Chnngloio (m Chrgbeo). we:
*   QiOrrpu-oky-.0*isnridp-Cthwibe;:  20.400 k.
b.  QvOryuopu-yBuiBrIWdV-ChoS&but             17.08 khm.
c.  Qinomupo-ctky.Nnhro WSidge-Ctha           13.00 Som.
d.  Chagbei-ChegglAo&                          S.00 ten.
_3:     Rooo povp urnd. b: Rln   od.



-53 -                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 2: PROJECT COST SUMPVARY
(Y million)
1989    1990    1991    1992        1993      1994    1995      1996       Total
A. Financial Cost (current price)
Nanchang-Jiujlang Highway- Two-Lane (NJH-Case 1)
Jiaoqiao-Alcheng                 17.56    9.19   24.05   40.36       24.03     59.39                        174.58
Alcheng-De an                     7.91    4.14   10.83    18.17      10.81     26.30                         78.16
Dean-Tonyuan                      9.61    5.02   13.17   22.09        13.16    31.98                         95.03
Tongyuan-JiuJiang                 8.57    4.49   11.75   19.70       11.32     28.52                         84.85
Subtotal               43.65   22.84   59.80  100.32       59.82    146.19                        432.62
Connecting Road                                           41.54     :141.22    45.69                        228.45
NJH-Case 1                       43.65   22.84   59.80   141.86     201.04    191.88                        661.07
NanchangBridgeComplex(NBC)             12.02   23.94   50.70   55.98      150.16     31.73                       324.53
Total                            55.67   46.78   110.50   197.84     151.20    223.61                       985.60
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway- Four-Lane (Case II)
Jiaoqiao-Aicheng                                                               62.26   83.66     48.64      194.56
Aicheng-De'an                                                                  32.34   43.46     25.27      101.07
De'an-Tongyuan                                                                 38.71   52.02     30.24      120.97
Tongyuan-Jiujlang                                                              29.54   39.70     23.08       92.32
NJH-Case II                                                                   162.85  218.84    127.23      508.92
Grand Total                      55.67   46.78  110.50   197.84     351.20    386.46  218.84    127.23    1494.52
B. Economic Cost (December 1995 constant prices)
NanchangJiujiang Highway- Two-Lane (NJH-Case 1)
JiaoqiaG-Alcheng                 24.27   11.47   30.87   47.91        26.S2    60.85                        202.19
Alcheng-De an                    10.90    5.16   13.87   21.52        12.04    26.88                         90.37
De'an-Tongyuan                   13.26    6.25   16.89   26.19        14.67    32.75                        110.01
Tongyuan-Jlujiang                11.84    5.59   15.07   23.36       [3.19     29.19                         98.24
Subtotal               60.27   28.47   76.70  118.98      !66.72    149.67                        500.81
Connecting Road                                           49.27     157.50     46.7S                        2S3.55
NJH-Case I                       60.27   28.47    76.70  168.25     2.2    196.45                           754.36
Nanchang Bridge Compler (NBC)          16.06   32.42   64.39   65.69      168.08     32.39                       379.03
Total                            76.33   60.89  141.09  233.94      392.30    228.84                       1133.39
NanchangJujiuang Highway- Four-Lane (Case II)
Jlaoqlao-Alcheng                                                               63.6S   83.66     45.72      193.06
Aicheng-De'an                                                                  33.08   43.46     23.75      100.29
De an-Tongyuan                                                                 39.59   52.02     28.42      120.03
Tongyuan-Jiujiang                                                              30.21   :39.70    21.69       91.60
NJH-Case II                                                                   166.56  218.84    119.58      504.98
Grand Total                      76.33   60.89   141.09  233.94     39230    395.40  218.84    119.58    1638.37
1_1: Al the figures are rounded.
Aug-96



Table 3: Shadow Price Calculation
(Y million)
Jlaoilao-AUcbeng                   Alcheng-Deaa                          De'an-Tongyua                      TonguasJlAjlaag
Conver  ......                                                                                                                                           Total
*loen-  --- Financal-.-------  Economic  -----Finacal-------- Ecomc                          ---------  Economic  --Flnncial-------          Ecoaomk   project
factor    Local  Foreign   Total    Total    Local Foreign  Ttotl    Total      Local  Foreign   Total     Total     Local  Foreign   Total   Total
Land                         1.00    13.49    0.00    13.49      13.49    6.07    0.00    6.07      6.07     7.38    0.00     7.38       7.38    6.60     0.00    6.60      6.60
Labor:
Unskilled                   1.00     1.94    0.67     2.61       2.61    1.46    0.50    1.96      1.96     1.07    0.36     1.43       1.43    1.90     0.00    1.90       1.90
Seml skilled/Tecaiciam      0.67     5.83    2.02     7.85       5.93    2.62    0.89    3.51      2.65     3.20    1.09     4.29       3.23    3.17     0.00    3.17       2.12
Supervleor                  2.00     2.37    1.01     3.38       5.75    1.07    0.45    1.52      2.59     1.30    0.54     1.84       3.14    1.16     0.18    1.34       2.50
Materls:
Steel                       1.00     8.53    3.47    12,00     12.00    2.96    1.23    4.19      4.19      4.66    1.86     6.52      6.52    2.91     1.80    4.71       4.71
Tlmber                      1.00     1.29    0.45     1.74      1.74    0.58    0.19    0.77       0.77     0.71    0.24     0.95      0.95    0.63     0.47    1.10       1.10
Cement                      1.00    10.37    3.60    13.97     13.97    3.79    1.29    5.08       5.08     5.67    1.92     7.59      7.59    3.80     0.92    4.72       4.72
Sand                       0.80      2.63    0.91     3.54      3.01    1.48    0.51    1.99       1.69     1.44    0.49     1.93      1.64    1.60      0.00    1.60      1.28
Stone                       0.80    10.60    3.68    14.28     12.16    5.06    1.72    6.78       5.77     5.80    1.97     7.77      6.61    5.50     0.00    5.50       4.40                 C 
Bitumen                     1.00     3.59    1.70     5.29      5.29    2.20    0.94    3.14       3.14     1.96    0.90     2.86      2.86    2.39      0.00    2.39      2.39
Others                     0.80    13.20    4.59    17.79      15.15    5.95    2.02    7.97       6.78     7.23    2.46     9.69      8.24    6.45     0.66    7.11       5.82
Fuel:O   ^ 
Diesl                       1.00     8.78    3.05    11.83     11.83    3.95    1.34    5.29       5.29     4.81    1.63     6.44      6.44    4.29     0.00    4.29       4.29
GasolIne                    1.00     1.29    0.45     1.74      1.74    0.58    0.19    0.77       0.77     0.71    0.24     0.95      0.95    0.63     0.00    0.63       0.63
BeasyoIl                    1.00     0.13    0.05     0.18      0.18    0.06    0.02    0.08       0.08     0.07    0.02     0.09      0.09    0.07     0.00    0.07       0.07r
Others                      1.00     0.38    0.13     0.51      0.51    0.17    0.06    0.23       0.23     0.20    0.07     0.27      0.27    0.18     0.00    0.18       0.18
Water                        0.80     0.23    0.08     0.31       0.26    0.11    00.0    0.14      0.2      0.13    0.04     0.17       0.14    0.10     0.00    0.10       0.08
Electricity                  1.50     3.11    1.08     4.19       5.75    1.40    0.48    1.88      2.58     1.70    0.57     2.27       3.12    1.52     0.00    1.52       2.28                _
Construction                 1.00     9.72    3.37    13.09      13.09    4.37    1.49    5.86      5.86     5.32    1.81     7.13       7.13    4.75     0.00    4.75       4.75
Mechanicalequlpmnest         1.00    23.90   13.91    37.81      37.81   10.78    6.13   16.91     16.91    13.12    7.44    20.56      20.56   11.72    13.20   24.92      24.92 
Others                       0.80     8.20    0.78     8.98       7.34    3.67    0.35    4.02      3.29     4.46    0.44     4.90       4.01    3.98     4.27    8.25       7.45
Total                      129.58   45.00   174.58     169.61   58.33   19.83   78.16     75.82    70.94   24.09    95.03     92.30   63.35    21.50   84.85      S4.85
Overall conversion factor                                         0.97                              0.97                                 0.97                                1.00     0.98
/1: All the figuree are rounded.
/2: Shadow encbange rate . 1.0.
Aug-96



-55 -                                 ANNEX I
TABLE 4: ECONOMIC VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
(Y per km, December 1995 prices)
-     PFa'ir           -        Poo      r
Flat Roil  Hill  Mount. Flat Roll  Hill  Mount.  ilat Rol  Hill  Mount
A. Highway (2 lanes)
SmaU car                 0.472   0.493   0.509    0.557   0.579   0.595    0.721  0.743   0.759
Small bus                0.880   1.044   1.178    1.212   1.408   1.568    1.551  1.729   1.S89
Medium bus                1.387   1.611   1.805    1.961   2.246   2.478    2.585  2.835   3.067
Large bus                 1.541   1.879   2.180    2.267   2.730   3.111    2.747  3.194   3.575
Small truck              0.664   0.830   0.955    0.745   0.911   1.035    0.911  1.056   1.201
Medium truck             0.698   0.860   1.022    0.769   0.945   1.105    0.929  1.105   1.281
Large truck              0.920   1.127   1.334    1.050   1.276   1.475    1.249  1.475   1.688
Tractor/trailer           1.736   2.290   2.769    1.999   2.602   3.110    2.380  2.951   3.475
B. Highway (4 lanes)
Small car                0.440   0.460   0.475    0.518   0.538   0.553    0.671  0.691   0.706
Small bus                0.813   0.965   1.089    1.052   1.222   1.361    1.346  1.500   1.639
Medium bus                1.281   1.488   1.667    1.702   1.949   2.150    2.244  2.461   2.662
Large bus                 1.436   1.751   2.031    1.975   2.378   2.710    2.393  2.782   3.114
SmaD truck               0.625   0.781   0.899    0.702   0.858   0.975    0.858  0.995   1.132
Medium truck             0.664   0.818   0.972    0.730   0.897   1.049    0.882  1.049   1.216
Large truck              0.880   1.078   1.276    1.006   1.223   1.414    1.197  1.414   1.618
Tractor/trailer           1.646   2.171   2.625    1.898   2.471   2.953    2.260  2.802   3.300
C Bridge
Smallcar                 0.511   0.534   0.551    0.636   0.661   0.679    0.824  0.849   0.867
Small bus                 1.107   1.314   1.483    1.676   1.947   2.168    2.144  2.389   2.610
Medium bus                1.744   2.026   2.270    2.712   3.106   3.426    3.576  3.922   4.242
Large bus                 1.982   2.417   2.803    3.162   3.807   4.339    3.831  4.454   4.986
Smalltruck               0.681   0.851   0.980    0.788   0.963   1.094    0.963  1.117   1.271
Medium truck             0.714   0.880   1.046    0.810   0.995   1.164    0.979  1.164   1.349
Large truck              0.933   1.143   1.353    1.095   1.331   1.539    1.303  1.539   1.761
Tractor/trailer           1.796   2.369   2.864    2.102   2.737   3.271    2.503  3.103   3.654
Note:   Without the project, both the road condition and flow will deteriorate quicklly with high traffic growth
and shift towards heavier vehicles. Considered 2% p.a. cost increase.
Sources: Jiangxi Provincial Transport Departmernt and the Bank.
Aug-96



- 56 -                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 5A: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY-TWO-LANE (CASE I)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Cost                        -         Benefi -
VOC             Reduced
Net /2               Net   Gemr-  Cong.On  Reduced                  Net  Total
Consit   Road                 Sav-     ated     Exisd    Accid-              Cash Benefits
Year         -ction    MainL     Total    mtga   Traffic     Road       ens    Total    Flow  (-20%)
Total Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
1989          60.27             60.27                                                   (60.27)  (60.27)
1990          28.47             28.47                                                   (28.47)  (28.47)
1991          76.70             76.70                                                    (76.7)  (76.70)
1992         118.98             118.98                                                  (119.0) (118.98)
1993          66.72    25.04    91.76    86.13      4.32      6.30     0.46    97.21      5.45   (13.99)
1994         149.67    25.04   174.71   113.38      5.66      6.42     0.46   125.92   (48.79)  (73.98)
1995           0.00    25.04    25.04   135.79      6.80      7.08     0.46   150.13   125.09    95.07
1996           0.00    25.04    25.04   156.11      7.12      7.24     0.46   171.63   146.59   112.26
1997                   25.04    25.04   179.55      S.99      7.41     0.46   196.41   171.37   132.10
1998                   25.04    25.04   206.57    10.34       7.59     0.46   224.96   199.92   154.93
1999                   25.04    25.04   237.77    11.90       7.77     0.46   257.90   232.86   181.28
2000                   25.04    25.04   273.79    13.70       7.94     0.46   295.89   270.85   211.67
2001                   25.04    25.04   308.79    15.44       8.09     0.46   332.78   307.74   241.18
2002                   25.04    25.04   348.32    17.41       8.25     0.46   374.4    349.40   274.52
2003 /-1               37.56    37.56   392.97    19.63       8.41     0.46   421.47   383.91   299.62
2004 /_1               37.56    37.56   443.41    22.14       8.57     0.46   474.5S   437.02   342.10
2005                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2006                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2007                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2008                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2009                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2010                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2011                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2012                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2013                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2014                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
2015                   25.04    25.04   500.43    25.03       8.74     0.46   534.66   509.62   402.69
Total   500.81                   EIRR -                                            30.2%    25.S%
NPV (12ff) =                                      927.1    652.2
First Year Retun-                                13.7%
/_1: Major resurfacing.
/_2: All figures are rounded



-57 -                                      ANNEX 1
TABLE 5a: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS (SECTION 1)
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY-TWO-LANE (CASE I)
(Y million, December 1995 prlices)
Base Caew
Coals                                 Benest
VOC             Reduced
Constru   Net /_2             Not   Gener-  CongOn  :Reduced                 Net  Total
-ction  Road                Sav-      ated    FEis    Accid,               Csh Benefits
Year           1/3   Maint       Total     inp   Traffic     Road       enb     Total    Flow  (-20%)
Secton 1:   Jisoqiao-Aicheng
1989          24.27             24.27                                                   (24.27)  (24.27)
1990          11.47             11.47                                                  (11.47)  (11.47)
1991          30.S7             30.87                                                   (30.87)  (30.87)
1992          47.91             47.91                                                   (47.91)  (47.91)
1993          26.82    10.11    36.93    55.70      2.78      2.49     0.16    61.13    24.20    11.97
1994          60.85    10.11    70.96    71.09      3.54      2.79     0.16    77.53      6.62    (8.90)
1995           0.00    10.11    10.11    83.46      4.18      3.10     0.16    90.90    80.79    62.61
1996           0.00    10.11    10.11    95.17      4.77      3.17     0.16   103.27    93.16    72.51
1997                   10.11    10.11   108.53      5.44      3.24     0.16   117.37   107.26    83.79
1998                   10.11    10.11   123.76      6.20      3.32     0.16   133.44   123.33    96.64
1999                   10.11    10.11   141.13      7.07      3.40     0.16   151.76   141.65   111.30
2000                   10.11    10.11   160.95      8.06      3.48     0.16   172.65   162.54   12S.01
2001                    10.11    10.11   180.43     9.03      3.55     0.16   193.17   183.06   144.43
2002                   10.11    10.11   202.27    10.12       3.62     0.16   216.17   206.06   162.83
2003 /_1               15.17    15.17   226.75    11.34       3.69     0.16   241.94   226.78   178.39
2004 /_1               15.17    15.17   254.20    12.71       3.76     0.16   270.83   255.67   201.50
2005                    10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26      3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2006                    10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26      3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2007                   10.11    10.11   2S4.98    14.26       3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2008                   10.11    10.11   214.98    14.26       3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2009                   10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26       3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2010                    10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26      3.22     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2011                   10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26       3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2012                    10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26      3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2013                   10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26       3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2014                    10.11    10.11   284.98    14.26      3.82     0.16   303.22   293.11   232.47
2015                   10.11    10.11   234.98    14.26       3.82     0.16   303.22  :293.11   232.47
Total        202.19                   EIRR -                                            39.3%    33.9%
-                         NPV (12%) -                                       620.0    459.9
First Year Return -                              21.4%
/L1: Majore-nacin&
/_2: Nct of the nuintnce saijg on the proposed expresway and the exsn road
/_3: Inchuling the capital iwestment on Southn accs road
/4: Al figures are rounded.



- 58 -                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE 5b: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS (SECTION 2)
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY-TWO-LANE (CASE I)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs                                   Benefits
VOC              Reduced
Net /_2               Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                  Net  Total
Constru   Road                 Sav-      ated     Exist    Accid-              Cash Benefits
Year           -cdon    Maint     Total     ings   Traffic      Road      ents    Total    Flow  (-20%h)
Section 2:   Alcheng-De'an
19S9           10.90              10.90                                                    (10.90)  (10.90)
1990            5.16               5.16                                                     (5.16)   (5.16)
1991           13.87              13.87                                                    (13.87)  (13.87)
1992           21.52              21.52                                                    (21.52)  (21.52)
1993           12.04     4.52    16.56    18.S2       0.96      1.59      0.10    21.47      4.91     0.62
1994           26.88     4.52    31.40    25.62       1.27      1.51      0.10    28.50    (2.90)   (8.60)
1995            0.00     4.52      4.52    30.97      1.55      1.65      0.10    34.27    29.75    22.90
1996            0.00     4.52      4.52    35.42      1.77      1.69      0.10    38.98    34.46    26.66
1997                     4.52      4.52    40.51      2.02      1.73      0.10    44.36    39.84    30.97
1998                     4.52      4.52    46.33      2.31      1.77      0.10    50.51    45.99    35.89
1999                     4.52      4.52    52.99      2.64      1.81      0.10    57.54    53.02    41.51
2000                     4.52      4.52    60.62      3.03       1.85     0.10    65.60    61.08    47.96
2001                     4.52      4.52    68.11      3.40       1.88     0.10    73.49    68.97    54.27
2002                     4.52      4.52    76.53      3.S2       1.92     0.10    82.37    77.85      61.38
2003 /_1                 6.78      6.78    85.99      4.29       1.96     0.10    92.34    85.56    67.09
2004 /_1                 6.78      6.78    96.61      4.82       2.00     0.10   103.53    96.75      76.04
2005                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58    88.36
2006                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43       2.03     0.10   116.10   111.58    88.36
2007                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58      88.36
2008                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58      88.36
2009                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58      88.36
2010                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58      88.36
2011                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58    88.36
2012                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58    88.36
2013                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58    88.36
2014                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58     88.36
2015                     4.52      4.52   108.54      5.43      2.03      0.10   116.10   111.58    88.36
Total         90.37                     EIRR -                                             34.8%    29.9%
NPV (12%) -                                        222.6    161.9
First Year Return-                                 16.8%
/1: Mapor refacin&
/_2: Net of the maintane savins on the proposed expnrway and the existing road.
/3: All figures are rounded.



-59 -                                      ANNEX 1
TABLE 5c: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS (SECTION 3)
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY-TWO- LANE (CASE 1)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs                                 Bencfits-
VOC             Reduced
Netl 2               Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                 Net  Total
Constru   Road                SNy-     ated     Exit    Accid               Cash Benefits
Year          -ctoni MainL       Total    ings   Traffic     Road       ents    Total    Flow  (-20%)
Section 3:   Desan-Tongyuan
1989          13.26              13.26                                                  (13.26)  (13.26)
1990           6.25               6.25                                                   (6.25)   (6.25)
1991          16.S9              16.S9                                                  (16.S9)  (16.S9)
1992          26.19              26.19                                                  (26.19)  (26.19)
1993          14.67      5.50    20.17     8.40     0.42      0.96     0.11     9.89   (10.28)  (12.26)
1994          32.75      5.50    38.25    11.54     0.58      0.82     0.11    13.05   (25.20)  (27.81)
1995           0.00     5.50      5.50    14.26     0.70      0.94     0.11    16.01    10.51      7.31
1996           0.00     5.50      5.50    16.78     0.83      0.96     0.11    18.68    13.18      9.44
1997                     5.50     5.50    19.75     0.98      0.98     0.11    21.82    16.32    11.96
1998                     5.50     5.50    23.24     1.16      1.00     0.11    25.51    20.01    14.91
1999                    5.50      5.50    27.35     1.37      1.02     0.11    29.85    24.35    18.38
2000                     5.50     5.50    32.17     1.61      1.04     0.11    34.93    29.43    22.44
2001                     5.50     5.50    36.78     1.84      1.06     0.11    39.79    34.29    26.33
2002                     5.50     5.50    42.05     2.10      1.03     0.11    45.34    39.84    30.77
2003 /_1                 8.25     8.25    48.08     2.40      1.10     0.11    51.69    43.44    33.10
2004 /_1                 8.25     8.25    54.97     2.74      1.12     0.11    58.94    50.69    38.90
2005                     5.50     5.50    62.87     3.15      1.15      0.11    67.28    61.78    48.32
2006                     5.50     5.50    62.37     3.15      1.15      0.11    67.23    61.78    48.32
2007                     5.50     5.50    62.87     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.28    61.78    48.32
2008                     5.50     5.50    62.87     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.28    61.78    48.32
2009                     5.50     5.50    62.87     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.28    61.78    48.32
2010                     5.50     5.50    62.37     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.2S    61.78    48.32
2011                     5.50     5.50    62.17     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.28    61.78    48.32
2012                     5.50     5.50    62.37     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.23    61.78    48.32
2013                     5.50     5.50    62.S7     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.28    61.78    48.32
2014                     5.50     5.50    62.87     3.15      1.15      0.11    67.23    61.78    48.32
2015                     5.50     5.50    62.87     3.15      1.15     0.11    67.28    61.78    48.32
62.87     3.15      1.15     0.11
Total        110.01                    EERR-                                            18.8%    15.7%
_ NPV (12%)                                                                  64.9     32.3
First Year Retum                                  6.4%
/1: Major resurfacing.
/_2: Net of the maintance savings on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/3: All figures are rounded.



- 60 -                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 5d: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS (SECTION 4)
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY-TWO-LANE (CASE I)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Cost-                                 Benefits
VOC             Reduced
Net 1_2              Net   Gener-  CongOn  Reduced                  Nct  Total
Consiu  Road                  San-     ated     Exist   Accid-              Cash Benefits
Year          -tion   Maint      Total    ings   Traffic     Road      ents    Total    Flow  (-20%)
Section 4:   Tongyuan-Jiujiang
1989          11.84             11.B4                                                   (11.84)  (11.84)
1990           5.59               5.59                                                   (5.59)   (5.59)
1991          15.07              15.07                                                  (15.07)  (15.07)
1992          23.36              23.36                                                  (23.36)  (23.36)
1993          13.19     4.91    18.10      3.21     0.16      1.26     0.09     4.72   (13.38)  (14.32)
1994          29.19     4.91    34.10      5.13     0.27      1.30     0.09     6.79   (27.31)  (28.67)
1995           0.00     4.91     4.91      7.10     0.37      1.39     0.09      8.95     4.04     2.25
1996           0.00     4.91     4.91      8.74     0.45      1.42     0.09    10.70      5.79     3.65
1997                    4.91     4.91    10.76      0.55      1.46     0.09    12.86      7.95     5.38
1998                    4.91     4.91    13.24      0.67      1.50     0.09    15.50    10.59      7.49
1999                    4.91     4.91    16.30      0.82      1.54     0.09    18.75    13.84    10.09
2000                    4.91      4.91    20.05     1.00      1.57     0.09    22.71    17.80    13.26
2001                    4.91      4.91    23.47     1.17      1.60     0.09    26.33    21.42    16.15
2002                    4.91      4.91    27.47     1.37      1.63     0.09    30.56    25.65    19.54
2003 /_1                7.37      7.37    32.15     1.60      1.66     0.09    35.50    28.14    21.04
2004 I_1                7.37      7.37    37.63     1.87      1.69     0.09    41.28    33.92    25.66
2005                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2006                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2007                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2008                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2009                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2010                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2011                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2012                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2013                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2014                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
2015                    4.91      4.91    44.04     2.19      1.74     0.09    48.06    43.15    33.54
Total         98.24                   EIRR -                                            14.4%    11.7%
-                         NPV (12%)                                          19.6     (1.9)
First Yrar Retur -                                5.3%
/: Maor resurfachqg
/_2: Net of the maintance savings on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/_3: All figur are rounded.



-61-                                       ANNEX 1
TABLE 5B: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY-FOUR*-LANE (CASE II)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Caw
Costs                                 Benefit-
VOC             Reduccd
Net /_2              Net   Gnae    Cotq.On  Reduced                 Net  Total
Constru   Road                Say-     ated    EDSL   Accid-                 Cash Benefits
Year          -ction   Maint     Total    ings   Trafflic    Road       ents    Total    Flow  (-20%)
Total Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
19S9          60.27             60.27                                                   (60.27)  (60.27)
1990          28.47              28.47                                                  (28.47)  (28.47)
1991          76.70              76.70                                                   (76.7)  (76.70)
1992         118.98             118.98                                                  (119.0) (118.98)
1993          66.72    50.28   117.00    86.13      4.32      6.30     2.27    99.02   (17.98)  (37.77)
1994         316.23    50.28   366.51   113.38      5.66      6.42     2.27   127.73  (238.78) (264.33)
1995         218.84    50.28   269.12   135.79      6.80      7.08     2.27   151.94  (117.18) (147.57)
1996         119.58    50.28   169.86   157.63      7.89      8.32     4.54   178.38      8.52   (27.16)
1997                   50.28    50.28   183.11      9.17      9 78     4.54   206.60   156.32   115.00
1998                   50.28    50.28   212.84    10.66      11.49     4.54   239.53   189.25   141.34
1999                   50.28    50.28   247.59    12.40      13.50     4.54   278.03   227.75   172.14
2000                   50.28    50.28   288.23    14.43      15.88     4.54   323.08   272.80   208.18
2001                    50.28    50.28   324.48    16.24      16.19    4.54   361.45   311.17   238.89
2002                   50.28    50.28   365.31    18.29      16.50     4.54   404.64   354.36   273.43
2003 I 1                75.42    75.42   411.33    20.58     16.82     4.54   453.27   377.85   287.19
2004 /1                75.42    75.42   463.20    23.18      17.14     4.54   508.06   432.64   331.03
2005                   50.28    50.28   521.67    26.11      17.48     4.54   5690.0   519.52   405.56
2006                    50.28    50.28   576.91    28.87     17.17     4.54   627.49   577.21   451.72
2007                   50.28    50.28   638.05    31.92      16.87     4.54   691.38   641.10   502.83
2008                    50.28    50.28   705.69    35.30     16.57     4.54   762.10   711.82   559.41
2009                   50.28    50.28   780.55    39.04      16.27     4.54   840.40   790.12   622.04
2010                    50.28    50.28   863.43    43.18     15.98     4.54   927.13   876.85   691.43
2011                    50.28    50.28   938.66    46.94     14.60     4.54  1,004.74   954.46   753.51
2012                    50.28    50.28  1,020.48    51.02    13.33     4.54  1,089.37 1,039.09   821.21
2013                   50.28    50.28  1,109.46    55.47     12.17     4.54  1,181.64  1,131.36   895.03
2014                   50.28    50.28  1,206.24    60.30     11.11     4.54  1,282.19  1,231.91   975.47
2015                    50.28    50.28  1,311.48    65.57    10.16     4.54  1,391.75  1,341.47  1,063.13
Total  1005.79                   EIRR =                                            23.4%    19.6%
NPV (12%) -                                       926.4    579.6
First Year Retumn-                               11.7%
I1: Major resurfacing.
/2: All figures are roundeA



-62 -                                      ANNEX I
TABLE 5C: ECONoMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY-FOUR-LANE (CASE III)
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs                                 Bene fi-
VOC             Reduced
Net /_2              Net   Gener-  Con&On  Reduced                  Net  Total
Constru   Road                Sav-     ated     Exist   Accid-              Cash Benefits
Year          -ction   Maint    Total    ingp   Traffic      Road       ents    Total    Flow  (-200/%)
Total Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
19S9          60.27              60.27                                                  (60.27)  (60.27)
1990          28.47             28.47                                                   (28.47)  (28.47)
1991          76.70              76.70                                                   (76.7)  (76.70)
1992         118.98             118.98                                                  (119.0) (118.98)
1993          66.72    25.04    91.76    86.13      4.32      6.30     0.46    97.21      5.45   (13.99)
1994         149.67    25.04   174.71   113.38      5.66      6.42     0.46   125.92   (48.79)  (73.97)
1995           0.00    25.04    25.04   135.79      6.80      7.08     0.46   150.13   125.09    95.06
1996           0.00    25.04    25.04   156.11      7.82      7.24     0.46   171.63   146.59   112.26
1997           0.00    25.04    25.04   179.55      8.99      7.41     0.46   196.41   171.37   132.09
1998           0.00    25.04    25.04   206.57    10.34       7.59     0.46   224.96   199.92   154.93
1999           0.00    25.04    25.04   237.77    11.90       7.77     0.46   257.90   232.86   181.28
2000           0.00    25.04    25.04   273.79    13.70       7.94     0.46   295.89   270.85   211.67
2001         166.56    25.04   191.60   308.79    15.44       8.09      0.46   332.78   141.18    74.62
2002         218.84    25.04   243.88   348.32    17.41       8.25      0.46   374.44   130.56    55.67
2003 /_1      119.58    37.56   157.14   392.97    19.63      8.41      0.46   421.47   264.33   180.04
2004 /_1                75.42    75.42   463.20    23.18     17.14      4.54   508.06   432.64   331.03
2005                    50.28    50.28   521.67    26.11     17.4S     4.54   569.80   519.52   405.56
2006                    50.28    50.2S   576.91    28.87     17.17     4.54   627.49   577.21   451.71
2007                    50.28    50.28   638.05    31.92     16.87     4.54   691.38   641.10   502.82
2008                    50.23    50.23   705.69    35.30     16.57     4.54   762.10   711.82   559.40
2009                    50.28    50.28   780.55    39.04     16.27     4.54   840.40   790.12   622.04
2010                    50.28    50.28   863.43    43.18     15.98     4.54   927.13   876.85   691.42
2011                   50.28    50.28   938.66    46.94      14.60     4.54  1,004.74   954.46   753.51
2012                    50.28    50.28  1020.48    51.02     13.33     4.54  1,089.37  1,039.09   821.22
2013                   50.28    50.28  1109.46    55.47      12.17     4.54  1,181.64  1,131.36   895.03
2014                    50.28    50.28  1206.24    60.30     11.11     4.54  1,282.19  1,231.91   975.47
2015                    50.28    50.28  1311.48    65.57     10.16     4.54  1,391.75  1,341.47  1,063.12
Total  1005.79                   ERR =                                            29.8%    25.4%
NPV (12%) =                                      1105.6    767.9
I_1: Major resurfacing.
/2: AU figures are rounded.



-63 -                                      ANNEX 1
TABLE 5D: ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS
NANCHANG BRIDGE COMPLEX
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
CosJts                                 Benefit
VOC             Reduced
Net I_2              Net   Gener-  Cong.On  Reduced                 Net Total
Conatu   Road                 Sav-     aed      ExiL    Accid-               Cash Benefits
Ycar          -clion   Maint    Total    inp   Traffic       Road       ents    Total    Flow (-20%)
Nanchang Bridge:
19S9          16.06              16.06                                                  (16.06)  (16.06)
1990          32.42              32.42                                                  (32.42)  (32.42)
1991          64.39              64.39                                                  (64.39)  (64.39)
1992          65.69              65.69                                                  (65.69)  (65.69)
1993         163.03             16S.03                                                 (163.03) (163.03)
1994          32.39     9.43    41.37    40.40      2.03     15.63     0.09    5S.15    16.23      4.65
1995           0.00     9.4U     9.43    45.23      2.27     15.93     0.09    63.62    54.14    41.42
1996           0.00     9.43      9.43    50.75     2.54     16.34     0.09    69.73    60.25    46.30
1997                    9.43     9.43    56.39      2.35     16.71     0.09    76.54    67.06    51.75
1993                    9.43      9.43    63.76     3.19     17.09     0.09    S4.14    74.66    57.83
1999                    9.43     9.43    71.47      3.5g     17.47     0.09    92.61    S3.13    64.61
2000                    9.4S      9.43    30.11     4.01     17.37     0.09   102.08    92.60    72.13
2001                    9.48      9.48    32.96     4.15     17.97     0.09   105.17    95.69    74.66
2002                    9.49      9.41    35.90     4.30     13.03     0.09   103.37    93.S9    77.22
2003                    9.43      9.43    83.96     4.45     13.19     0.09   111.68   102.20    79.S7
2004 /I_1               14.22    14.22    92.12     4.61     13.29     0.09   115.11.  100.19    77.97
2005 /-1                14.22    14.22    95.39     4.77     13.40     0.09   113.65   104.43    30.70
2006                     9.43     9.43    94.67     4.73     17.77     0.09   117.27   107.79    34.33
2007                     9.43     9.43    93.95     4.70     17.17     0.09   115.91.  106.43    33.25
200S                     9.43     9.43    93.24     4.66     16.53     0.09   114.53   105.10    32.13
2009                    9.4S      9.43    92.54     4.63     16.02     0.09   113.27   103.79    31.14
2010                    9.43      9.43    91.34     4.59     15.47     0.09   111.99   102.51    80.11
2011                    9.4S      9.43    90.57     4.53     14.12     0.09   109.30    99.32    77.96
2012                    9.41      9.48    19.32     4.46     12.33     0.09   106.76    97.23    75.93
2013                    9.43      9.43    33.09     4.40     11.76     0.09   104.33;   94.95    73.99
2014                    9.41      9.41    36.37     4.34     10.73     0.09   102.03    92.55    72.14
2015                    9.48      9.43    35.67     4.23      9.79     0.09    99.13    90.35    70.33
Total   379.03                   EIRR -                                            16.6%    13.3%
_                         NPV (1296)-                                        106.1     23.5
First Year Return -                              10.Sff
/_1: Major resurfacing.
/_2: All fgures are rounded.



64 -                                     ANNEX 1
TABLE 6: ECONoMIc EVALUATION AND SENSITIVE ANALYSIS
CONNECTING ROAD
(Y million, December 1995 prices)
Base Case
Costs                                Benefi
VOC             Reduced
Constru   Net /2             Net   Gener-  Cong.On Reduced                 Net  Total
-ction  Road               Say-     ated     Exit   Accid-              Cash Benefits
Year            / 3   Maint    Total    ings   Traffic     Road      ents    Total    Flow  (-20%)
Connecting Road
19S9                            0.00                                                   0.00     0.00
1990           0.00              0.00                                                  0.00     0.00
1991           0.00             0.00                                                   0.00     0.00
1992          49.27            49.27                                                 (49.27)  (49.27)
1993         157.50            157.50                                               (157.50) (157.50)
1994          46.78    12.68    59.46    0.69     0.04      9.19     0.03     9.95   (49.51)  (51.50)
1995           0.00    12.68    12.6S    1.51     0.08      9.50     0.03    11.12    (1.56)   (3.78)
1996           0.00    12.68    12.68    2.10     0.11      9.72     0.03    11.96    (0.72)   (3.11)
1997                   12.68    12.68    2.92     0.15      9.95     0.03    13.05     0.37    (2.24)
199S                   12.68    12.68    4.07     0.21     10.13     0.03    14.49     1.31    (1.09)
1999                   12.68    12.68    5.67     0.29     10.42     0.03    16.41     3.73     0.45
2000                   12.68    12.68    7.91     0.39     10.66     0.03    18.99     6.31     2.51
2001                   12.68    12.68    9.61     0.47     10.37     0.03    20.93     3.30     4.10
2002                   12.68    12.68    11.68    0.57     11.03     0.03    23.36    10.63     6.01
2003 / 1               19.02    19.02    14.19    0.69     11.30     0.03    26.21     7.19     1.95
2004 / 1               19.02    19.02    17.24    0.34     11.52     0.03    29.63    10.61     4.68
2005                   12.68    12.68    20.95    1.04     11.75     0.03    33.77    21.09    14.34
2006                   12.68    12.68    24.17    1.20     11.54     0.03    36.94    24.26    16.87
2007                   12.68    12.63    27.89    1.39     11.33     0.03    40.64    27.96    19.83
2008                   12.68    12.68    32.13    1.61     11.13     0.03    44.95    32.27    23.23
2009                   12.68    12.68    37.13    1.36     10.93     0.03    49.95    37.27    27.28
2010                   12.68    12.68    42.34    2.14     10.74     0.03    55.75    43.07    31.92
2011                   12.68    12.68    47.33    2.39      9.S1     0.03    60.06    47.38    35.37
2012                   12.68    12.68    53.40    2.67      3.96     0.03    65.06    52.33    39.37
2013                   12.68    12.68    59.62    2.98      3.13     0.03    70.31    53.13    43.97
2014                   12.68    12.63    66.57    3.33      7.47     0.03    77.40    64.72    49.24
2015                   12.63    12.68    74.33    3.72      6.83     0.03    84.91    72.23    55.25
Total        253.55                  EIRR -                                           4.3%     1.9%
NPV (12%) =                                    (139.4)  (168.2)
1L: Major rsurcfagn&
1_2: Net of the maintance savings on the proposed expressway and the existing road.
/ 3: Including the capital investment on Southern access road
/4: All figures are rounded.



-65 -                     ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY COMPONENT-JIANGXI PROVINCE
1.    The scope of the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Development Project is defined in
the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 1984-CHA) which was signed between
the People's Republic of China and the International Development Association (IDA) on
March 16, 1989, and became effective on May 31, 1989. All the subprojects defined in
the project evaluation document and the Development Credit Agreement and the Project
Agreement signed between IDA and Jiangxi Province, also on March 16, 1989, have been
completely implemented and are formally evaluated in this Report.
Project Introduction
2.    The project packages designed in the evaluation document and the Credit
Agreement that were implemented by Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department (JPTD)
are:  (a) construction of a 113-km  long Nanchang-Jiujiang (Nan-Jiu) Highway;
(b) construction of a 6-km long Highway that links Nan-Jiu Highway and Nanchang
Bridge; (c) staff training for JPTD on construction supervision and quality control;
(d) establishment of a computerized road data bank and pavement management system
for helping JPTD to improve road planning; (e) overseas training for selected personnel
from JPTD; and (d) procurement of road maintenance equipment.
3.    The completed projects are: (a) construction of a 112.82-km long Nanchang-
Jiujiang two-lane highway. The horizontal and vertical alignment of the Highway was
designed to Class I standards and the width of subgrade and pavement to Class II
standards, which are 12 m and 9 m, respectively; (b) construction of a 12-km long four-
lane highway that links Nan-Jiu Highway and Nanchang Bridge, of which the first 6-km
section composed of Contracts A&B was financed by IDA, the remaining 6-km section
was fully financed by the Government; (c) foreign consultant service of Nan-Jiu Highway
was undertaken by a Danish consulting firm and foreign experts did a remarkable job
when they were in Jiangxi. They did not only work as consultants, lbut also took part in
construction supervision.  They have done 36 man-months of training on project
management and construction supervision in accordance with the requirements of the
Contract; (d) using the CPMS to manage the bituminous pavement of trunk highways
(national and provincial roads) all over 11 cities and prefectures in Jiangxi Province;
(e)the computerized road data bank, which uses plentiful data and charts, has been
established to provide and store basic data for planning, designing, construction and
maintenance of highways; (f) completed 68.6 man-months of overseas training on project
planning, highway design, road data bank, pavemenl management system, operating
administration for expressway, and maintenance for roads and bridges; and



- 66 -                    ANNEX2
(g) procurement of 11 different types of maintenance equipment totaling 19 sets and 3
sets of road data measuring and collecting vehicle.
Project Identification
4.    Approved  by the  State Planning  Committee (SPC), the Ministry  of
Communications (MOC) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Nan-Jiu Highway
Project was selected, by the end of 1986, as the waiting one of the Sixth Group of World
Bank Group Projects. The Bank Group Mission visited Jiangxi Province for the first time
for project identification on March 4, 1987. After that, the Bank Group Mission
evaluated the Project three times, respectively, in July and October 1987 and in January
1988, and formally appraised the Project from January 20 to 26, 1988. The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) was presented in January 1989. The Credit Agreement was
signed on March 16, 1989 and became effective on May 31 of the same year.
5.    During the appraisal period, after many negotiations with JPTD, the Bank Group
officials fully understood that insufficient capacity of all transportation modes, especially
of highway transportation mode, is the main obstruction for economic development in
China. In order to improve and extend the road network in Jiangxi Province, meeting
rapidly increased demand for road transportation and decreasing jams of railway
transportation for passengers and freights, it is very necessary for JPTD to cooperate with
the Bank Group in highway construction and in transfer of advanced technique for
planning, designing, construction and maintenance of highway. Through financing for a
highway with high capacity and a bridge connecting Nanchang city and the Highway, the
Bank Group could help Jiangxi to meet road transportation demand in corridor from
south to north. The Highway, beginning at Jiaoqiao in the north suburb of Nanchang city
and ending at Shilipu in Lushan district of Jiujiang city, is 112.82 km long. In addition, a
12-km long highway was constructed to connect the Highway and Nanchang Bridge. The
subprojects are targeted on establishing a road data bank and pavement management
system, consultant service for construction supervision, staff training and procurement of
equipment.
Project Planning and Designing
6.    The following project targets were planed in the SAR: (a) introducing advanced
technique on design of road and traffic engineering and providing continuous assistance
in designing, construction, testing and preparation of Technical Specifications and
Conditions of Contract; (b) providing assistance on competitive bidding of highway
engineering and setting up of construction supervision system; (c) establishing a
computerized road data bank to help JPTD on improvement of road planning;
(d) establishing a pavement management system to prepare a program of pavement
strengthening and road maintenance; (e) providing assistance on improvement of road
safety; and (d) procurement of advanced equipment for maintenance and inspection.
7.    To realize the above-mentioned targets, the designing work of the Project
includes: (a) construction of a 112.82-km long two-lane auto-only highway from



-67 -                     ANNEX2
Nanchang to Jiujiang, (b) construction of a 12-km long four-lane Class I highway to
connect Nanchang Bridge and Nan-Jiu Highway, (c) with the help of consultant service
training of personnel of JPTD on road construction supervision and quality control,
(d) evaluating the existing road to prepare program of pavement strengthening,
reconstruction and maintenance of roads, (e) establishing computerized road data base to
help JPTD for improving the technique of highway planning, and (f) overseas staff
training.
Project Implementation
8.    According to the scope of procurement defined in the SAR, JPTD designated
China Machinery Import and Export Corporation (CMC) to execute International
Competitive Bidding for the civil works of Nan-Jiu Highway. Prequalification of
contractors was completed in August 1988, and the bidding for civil works was carried
out and approved by the Bank during the time September 1988 to March 1989. The
agreement of consultant service for construction superviision was signed with Kampsax
International A/S of Denmark, who undertook the construction supervision in association
with Jiangxi Provincial Communications Engineering Consultant Company (JPCECC).
The joint venture of China Metallurgical Construction Corporation (CMCC) and INGRA,
Yugoslavia commenced construction of the Highway on July 28, 1989, and the Highway
was completed and opened to traffic on January 18, 1993.
9.    Approved by the Bank, the construction of connecting road between Nan-Jiu
Highway and Nanchang Bridge was executed by Jiangxi Provincial Highway
Administration Bureau, Nanchang Engineering Corporation of Shanghai Railway Bureau
and the Fifth Bureau of China Construction Corporation which was selected through
procedures of Local Competitive Bidding. The construction supervision was undertaken
by JPCECC. The construction of the connecting road was commenced in early 1993, and
completed and opened to traffic on December 28 of the same year.
10.   Road data bank was developed according to requirements stated in Annex 2 of the
SAR and under integrated arrangement of MOC. Leading Group for development of road
data bank was established at JPTD level and the corresponding Working Group
established in Provincial Highway Administration Bureau (PHAB) and its branches in
cities or prefectures.  Since 1992 software preparation, data collecting and system
operator, and revision was been carried out. Data regarding road conditions and traffic
volumes on the National and Provincial Roads in the 11. cities and prefectures has been
collected and treated. The road data bank has being operated.
11.   The establishment of pavement management system was also commenced in
1992. The Leading Group at JPTD level and the Working Group in PHAB and its
branches were set up to undertake development of CPMS software, staff training, data
collection, and testing and operation of CPMS. By the end of 1995, the system model
parameters and pavement evaluation criteria were defined, modified in accordance with



- 68 -                    ANNEX2
the local conditions of Jiangxi province. Development of CPMS has been completed and
was accepted by MOC.
12.   Staff Training. Fifteen groups of overseas training totaling 68.6 man-months
were carried out during the period June 1991 to April 1995, of which 32.7 man-months
were on project management, highway planning and designing, inspection of
maintenance equipment, financial management executed in England, Australia, the
United States, Germany and France in 1991; 3.5 man-months on expressway
administration and CPMS in England, France, Italy and Canada in 1992; 25.4 man-
months on road data bank, CPMS, traffic engineering and maintenance for road and
bridge in the United States, France, Australia, Canada and Spain in 1993; and 7.0 man-
months on administration organization and operation management for expressway in Italy
and Germany in 1994 and 1995.
13.   Procurement of Equipment.  Procurement of maintenance equipment was
commenced in 1993 by following the World Bank's procedures. Nineteen sets of
maintenance equipment, e.g., multifunction maintenance vehicles, asphalt plant and
paver, etc. were imported from the United States, Germany, Italy and Canada, and
delivered to the site in 1994 and 1995. Approved by the Association, inspection
equipment was procured according to direct shopping procedures. Sets of inspection
equipment such as Road Geometry Detector and Multilasers Profiler, etc. were procured
from Australia and delivered in late 1995.
Operation Experience
14.   Nan-Jiu Highway has been operated for three years. According to the statistical
results, the annual average daily traffic volume (ADT) by sections in 1995 are: 4,522
vehicles per day on section Jiaoqiao-Aichen; 3,294 vehicles per day on section Aichen-
Dean; 3,271 vehicles per day on section Dean-Tongyuen; 3,656 vehicles per day on
section Tongyuen-Jiujiang. It shows that the actual ADT on Nan-Jiu Highway reaches
closely the forecast volume, except that the section Jiaoqiao-Aichen where traffic is much
lower than the forecast volume, mainly resulted by poor conditions of the feeder road,
which was under reconstruction, in Hubei Province connecting to the Highway. The
issue of traffic safety on Nan-Jiu Highway was serious in three years after open to traffic
with 1325 accidents encountered. In 1995, 516 accidents happened, averaging 4.14
accidents per kilometer. As the secondary carriageway is completed, it is expected that
accidents on the Highway will be decreased rapidly.
15.   The road data bank has been operated in 11 cities and prefectures in Jiangxi
Province. It efficiently satisfied the requirement of various types of information inquiry
and statistics and played an important role in saving inputs of labor and improving the
efficiency of road maintenance management. The road data bank can provide reliable
information for pavement evaluation and for scientific decision-making of road
maintenance, and is a effective tool for road management modernization.



-69 -                     ANNEX2
16.   According to the experience of CPMS operated in 11 cities and prefectures in
Jiangxi Province, the maintenance management on allocation of funds for both project
and network level can be prepared by using CPMS in long-, middle- and short- term
programs. CPMS is now used for making five-year programs of improvement on trunk
highways in Jiangxi Province and accordingly fo)r guiding preparation and
implementation of the annual maintenance plan. By operating CPMS, management of
trunk highways has been transferred from traditional practice to a scientific and advanced
one.
Work by the Contractors and the Consultants
17.   The procedures of International Competitive Bidding was followed for
procurement of civil works of Nan-Jiu Highway. There was two contract packages for
civil works in the whole project. The joint venture of MCC and INGRA was awarded
both contracts. Consulted with and approved by the Association, the construction of
pavement works from km 80 to km 112.82 was executed by Ganzhou Branch of Jiangxi
Provincial Highway Administration Bureau, and the construction of subgrade and
structures from km 31 to km 35 executed by Nanchang Engineering Corporation of
Shanghai Railway Bureau and The Fifth Bureau of China Construction Corporation.
Thirty months of construction period was defined in the Contract; because of delays in
the early stage after commencement of the work, the aclual construction period was 36
months. The quantities completed by the Contractors are: 7.46 million m3 of earth and
stone work, 33 bridges totaling 2,540 m in length, 825 culverts and underpasses, 6
interchanges, 19 grade-separated crossings and 1.15 millilon m2 of pavement work. The
quality of construction is good. MOC carried out the acceptance of the Highway in July
1994 according to state standards.
18.   The construction of the connecting road between Nan-Jiu Highway and Nanchang
Bridge was executed by Nanchang Engineering Corporation of Shanghai Railway
Bureau, The Fifth Company of China Construction Corporation and Jiangxi Provincial
Highway Administration Bureau. A total of 2.95 million m3 of earth and stone work, 8
bridges totaling 829 m in length, 127 culverts and underpasses, 3 interchanges 15 grade-
separated crossings and .34 million m2 of pavement work were completed and the quality
is good.
19.   Two foreign supervising engineers assigned by a Danish consultant firm acted as
deputy representatives during two different periods in the Engineer's Representative
Office of Nan-Jiu Highway Project and undertook the consultant service. Their cautious
working attitude and high sense of responsibility gave people a deep impression. The
consultants made lots of important recommendations for construction of key processes
and helped the contractors to solve technical problems encountered during construction.
Their work played a significant role in quality control on Nan-Jiu Highway. The
consultants had trained the local supervision engineers for JPTD. By training and giving
examples of their work, the supervision team in Jiangxi now is capable of independent
supervision for highway construction.



- 70 -                    ANNEX2
20.   The construction of Nan-Jiu Highway was supervised fully following FIDIC's
procedures and Conditions of Contract. The effective supervision organization, which
consisted of three levels of the Engineer's Representative Office, Senior Resident
Engineer and Resident Engineer, was established carefully and adjusted in timely manner
according to the progress and changes in nature of construction. At an early stage, two
Senior Resident Engineers were appointed and their offices with the same functions and
duties were set up under the Engineer's Representative Office for supervision of
construction of earthwork and structures. After activities of construction for pavement
became the center of the work at the final stage, one more Senior Resident Engineer was
appointed for supervision of construction of the pavement work.  The effective
supervision organization ensured the work was implemented smoothly and played a very
important role in control of quality, progress and cost of the Project.
21.   Experience. (a) It is the basic foundation for realization of project targets that the
Contractors, who were prequalified carefully to be technically and financially capable of
firms with good reputation, were selected by following procedures of International
Competitive Bidding; (b) implementation of independent supervision system is a efficient
method for ensuring of quality, control of progress and investment and improvement of
project management level; (c) the foreign experts did remarkable work in training of
Chinese supervision engineers and improvement of construction supervision and project
management; (d) the Executing Agency, as an organization center of project
implementation, played an important role in control of quality, progress and investment
by coordinating the relationships of units involved; and (e) consciously obeying the
instructions issued by and actively cooperating with the Bank Group ensured the Project
be implemented successfully.
Work by the Executing Agency
22.   Project Preparation. JPTD, as the Executing Agency, did large amounts of
preparation work for the Nan-Jiu Highway Project. The Feasibility Study Report was
prepared in 1984. A Plan for the Project was submitted to and approved by the Jiangxi
Provincial Planning Committee (JPPC) in 1985; the Project was applied for MOC to be
listed as one of key projects of Seventh Five-Year Plan in same year. Approved by SPC,
MOF and MOC in 1986, the Project was selected as the waiting one of the Sixth Group
of World Bank Group-financed Projects. Pre-evaluation for the Project was executed by
the Bank Group staff and assisted by JPTD in March 1987, and the appraisal was in
January 1988. The Credit Agreement became effective in May 1989. JPTD assigned the
Second Highway Survey and Design Institute and Jiangxi Provincial Communications
Design Institute to undertake the project design for Nan-Jiu Highway and the Connecting
Road between Nan-Jiu Highway and Nanchang Bridge respectively. During preparation
of the Project, JPTD was forcefully supported by the Association, SPC, MOC, MOF and
JPPC. In addition, JPTD did a big volume of work in establishment of a Leading Group
and the executing agency for project implementation, designation of project targets,
ascertaining of the necessary funds for the Project, selection of the Consultants for
construction supervision and staff training.



-71-                      ANNEX2
23.   Project Implementation. To implement the Nan-Jiu Highway Project, the
Jiangxi Provincial Government established a Leading Group, its leader was acted by the
Commissioner of JPPC, for construction of IDA-financed Highway and Bridge Project in
Jiangxi, and Nan-Jiu Highway Project Office was set up within JPTD. These two
agencies were responsible for management and coordination of the work, e.g., land
acquisition, demolition and resettlement, procurement and supplying of construction
materials, payment and financial management, call for construction molbilization meeting
in the dry season and coordinating the relationships between the Contractors and local
authorities, etc. In addition, the Land Acquisition and Demolition Office for Nan-Jiu
Highway was set up in cities or prefectures along the route, these Offices were
responsible for the assistance of land acquisition and demolition and coordination of the
relationships with local authorities. The efficient organization and management of JPTD
ensured the Project be implemented smoothly.
24.   Experience. (a) The establishment of an executing agency carefully organized
and staffed and with high efficiency is the sound foundation for implementing
successfully the Project; (b) strictly following the requirements of the Association,
implementing the independent supervision system and enforcing the function of
supervision enable the quality, progress, and cost be controlled efficiently; (c) the
establishment of the Office in cities or prefectures along the route, fully understanding of
and supporting for the Project by local residents could provide basic condition for land
acquisition and demolition, so that these played an important role in successful
implementation of the Project; (d) the amount of contract packaging should not be too
large to avoid the situation of delaying because the Contractors' input cannot meet the
requirements of the construction schedule; and (e) the investment scale was not
efficiently controlled because of many modifications of design resulting by low design
standards adopted in the designing stage and price escalation.
Work by the Bank
25.   Project Preparation. The Bank Group Missions visited Jiangxi four times from
March 1987 to January 1988 to investigate, inspect and pre-evaluate the Nan-Jiu
Highway Project, and formally appraised the Project in January 1988. The SAR, which
gave a detailed description, analysis and arrangement regarding justification, benefit and
schedule for the Nan-Jiu Highway and defined the project and subproject objectives
clearly, was presented in January 1989.
26.   Project Implementation. During project implementation, the Bank Group had a
close, efficient and good cooperation with the Executing Agency. The Bank Group
overviewed the progress of the Project through Progress Reports submitted by the
Engineer, visited the construction site of the Nan-Jiu Highway for three times, made
many practical recommendations and solved various types of problems encountered. All
the work done by the Bank Group ensured the Project be implemented smoothly.



- 72 -                    ANNEX2
27.   Cooperation with the Executing Agency. The Bank Group officials fully
understood that it is very necessary for Jiangxi Province to develop transportation
infrastructure to release the constraints of economic development. The Bank Group gave
large assistance and guidance for and kept a very good cooperation with the Executing
Agency during implementation. After fully realizing the situation of development in the
Chang-Jiu Industrial Corridor and Changbei Open Area, the Bank agreed that the
connecting road extend to the beginning point of the Nan-Jiu highway, so that the a fast
traffic route from Nanchang Bridge to Jiujiang Yangtze Bridge was formed. This matter
will give an active impact for economic development in Jiangxi. Jiangxi Provincial
Government and its JPTD are very appreciated for and hope to be supported by and to
have further and better cooperation with the Bank.
28.   Experience. (a) The Executing Agency should benefit from the experience
gained from the IDA-financed projects and actively pursue construction supervision
practices so as to improve project management level, strictly follow the procedures
ensure the quality and to decrease the cost of the Project. (b) By execution of subprojects
and personnel training, a batch of professional talent were trained for JPTD on project
management, construction supervision, road design, highway maintenance, financial
management, road data bank and pavement management system. These persons became
key technicians in the highway sector in Jiangxi. (c) As for the establishment of the Road
Data Bank and CPMS, by fully consulting with and supported by the Bank, the project
target was defined in accordance with the conditions in China and Jiangxi Province. The
establishment of these systems played an important role in overcoming the subjectivity
and blindness on highway maintenance and having the management of highway
maintenance be more scientific and modem. (d) The procurement of equipment for
maintenance and inspection was guided usefully and correctly by Bank Group staff, so as
to create a good condition for mechanical maintenance on the Nan-Jiu Highway.
Operation Plan
29.   Reference Comments on Future Operation Plan:
(a)   To establish a modem management system, a plan will be established for
future operation and a set of operational manuals will be prepared to direct
the future operation and management of the Nan-Jiu Highway. By
building the Class 1 highways from Nanchang to Zhangshu and from
Jiujiang to Jingdezhen, to extend the high-class highway network to attract
more traffic. To adjust the toll rates timely, develop transportation of
high-class highway, and speed up increasing of transportation of
passengers and freights and develop the land at both sides of the Highway,
so as to improve the overall benefit of the Nan-Jiu Highway.
(b)   To utilize CPMS for making financial decisions in cities and prefectures;
work out the priority of maintenance requirements for bituminous
pavement on trunk highways under the constraints of a limited budget.



-73 -                     ANNEX2
(c)   To improve continuously the Road Data Bank; upgrade timely the Road
Data Bank by the use of new data collected on highways recently
constructed and reconstructed.
30.   Monitoring Indicators. The economic evaluation and financial analysis will be
carried out every three years to monitor the implemenitation of Operation Plan. The
monitoring indicators will be: internal return rate (IRR), net benefit, benefit-cost ratio,
ratio of repayment for loans, traffic volumes, toll rates and toll revenue, expenditure of
maintenance and traffic accidents, etc.
NANCHANG BRIDGE COMPLEX-NANCHANG MUNICIPALITY
Project Establishment
31.   With the approval of the National Planning Committee (NPC) as stated in the
Document No. (1986) 2578 on December 16, 1986, the Nanchang Bridge Project (NBP)
was included in the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Development Project (JPHDP) for
financing by the World Bank (WB). On January 1988, WB sent a delegation to formally
appraise NSP. On January 12, 1989, the appraisal report No. 7430-CHA was finalized.
In March 1989, China signed Development Credit Agreement No. 1984-CHA with the
International Development Associations. The appraisal clocuments and Credit Agreement
had been implemented and assessed.
Project Briefing
32.   The work components included in the appraisal documernts and the Credit
Agreement cover: (a) Nanchang Bridge works starting fiom Tangzhikou to the westward,
across the Fuhe River and Gan River linking Changlin Town of Xinjian County, in total
length 8,982.63 m, divided in five work sections; (b) tlhe section No. 1 & 2 as the east
approach road is 3,230 m long and 31-60 m wide, comprising the cement concrete
pavement, one Fuhe Bridge No. 2 in 4 x 30 m and three minor bridges in length 10 m,
respectively; (c) the section No. 3 is the RC continuous main bridge components with 6
vehicle-lane and double decks, in total length 2,780 m consisting of the main bridge
992.59 m long, the east approach road 196.41 m and the east approach bridge 241.58 m
long, as well as the west approach bridge 748.28 m and the west approach road 601.14 m.
The major navigational channel covers 13 spans, with the maximum span of 80 m. The
west approach bridge, paved with the bituminous concrete the deck, consists of 16 spans,
48 m per span; (d) the sections No. 4 & 5 cover the west approach road 2,782.63 m long
and 24.5 m wide, paved with the bitumen concrete. There are also a newly-constructed
tollgate and a viaduct of 7 x 20m; (e) the local government raised funds to have
constructed a clover leaf type interchange with three decks, 190 m long in the east-west
and 772.5 m long in the north-south, in the Yenjiang Road South. The decks are paved
with the bituminous concrete.
33.   The 6-km Connecting Road linking Nan-Jiu H[ighway (NJH) whose costs are
borne by NSP and NJH in half, was executed by JPTD for the design and construction



- 74 -                    ANNEX2
and Nanchang Municipal Government (NCMG) for the land acquisition and demolishing
works.
34.   The miscellaneous works cover the underpass in Fusheng Road, the removal of
the east embankment of the Gan River, the green belts, lighting, traffic marks and
navigational works as well as the traffic data bank and monitoring system.
Performance of Employer
35.   To better the execution of works, NCMG set up the NBP Leading Group
composed of the key staff of NCMG, Nanchang Urban and Rural Construction Bureau
(NURCB) was appointed as the project's execution agency (Employer).
36.   The Employer compiled and submitted the construction program of NBP, for
approval of National Construction Commission in May 1982. In May 1982, the Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Designing Institute (SMEDI) was entrusted to design Nanchang
Bridge. By the end of 1984, the Jiangxi Provincial Transport Planning and Designing
Institute was entrusted to conduct the hydraulic model tests. In July 1985, the Nanchang
Urban Planning and Designing Institute (NUPDL) was entrusted to design the road
sections of NBP. In May 1987, Jiangxi Provincial Geological Minerals Bureau (JPGMB)
was entrusted to make drilling in the location of Nanchang Bridge.
37.  In February 1988, the International Tendering Company was entrusted to be
responsible for the international bid of NBP in accordance with the international practice.
Through the bidder evaluation, the successful contractor for the Contract No. 1 (main
bridge) was the Major Bridge Engineering Bureau (MBEB) under the Ministry of
Railways, the contractor for the Contract No. 2 (road sections) is the China Road and
Bridge Engineering Company, respectively. On August 12, 1989, the contracts were
signed.
38.   Staff Training. In order to carry out the project management and supervision,
120 persons in 19 groups accepted training courses, among which 24 persons in 6 groups
accepted courses abroad.  Through these courses to absorb the foreign undated
technology and management method, the works progressed smoothly, with satisfactory
results.
39.   Land Acquisition and Removal.  The Municipal Government set up the
specialized organization to carry out the land acquisition according to the guideline of
united leadership, planning and implementation. Totally 79.3 hectares (1,189 mu) of land
were acquired. 11,451.8 m of houses were demolished. The compensations for the land
acquisition and demolishing had been provided. The factories removed were restored to
normal operation elsewhere. The farmers, the removed families had been resettled and
employed.
40.   Investment of Project. In January 1988, World Bank Group staff appraised NBP
and added the items of the technical consultation, scientific experiments and the data



-75 -                      ANNEX2
bank, etc.  With approval of Jiangxi Provincial Planning Commission, the total
investment of NBP is Y 192,400,000, including IDA Credit of $29,830,000. In July
1993, the estimated budget, due to the design variations and price escalation of labor,
construction materials and machinery equipment, the estimated budget was adjusted to
Y 363,940,900.
41.   Implementation Experience: (a) The works of the project were executed under
the united leadership of organizations of the municipal government. On sites, the project
management system was adopted. The local funds were provided as planned. The land
acquired and power and water supply as well as accesses to work sites had been prepared
in advance to ensure the progress of works; (b) to be alone with the expansion of socialist
market economy, the nation issued the rules and regulation, so as to ensure the scientific
project management and the strict contract implementation.
Project Supervision
42.   The supervision system  was introduced in the performance of NBP.  In
accordance with the FIDIC conditions of contracts, the Engineer controls the works
quality, cost and the progress. The quality control as the key point of supervision should
be based on the procedure of "Supervision to be carried out at the beginning, in the
middle as well as at the end of the construction." No payment was made to low-quality
construction. In line with the national status quo, "strict supervision and warm-hearted
services" were put forward, under which the supervising engineers were asked to
strengthen supervision on the sites, so as to heighten the quality of services. The National
Ministry of Construction carried out special investigation to the supervision on the
construction of NBP and wrote articles of introduction to it.
43.   Foreign Consultation. A Danish senior engineer was appointed as the technical
advisor of NBP and had provided the technical consultation services for four years. He
had always taken his duties seriously, and did his best to conduct training courses for the
supervisors. He often supervised the works on the site under all the contracts, giving the
instructions to the contractors strictly.  Moreover, he was active: in site meetings.
Concerning the problems arising from the course of construction, he treated them
seriously all the time. Owing to his contributions to NBP, he received an award from the
Municipal Government.
44.   Implementation Experience.  (a) By adopting the supervision system, the
quality, progress and costs were controlled effectively. (b) The supervisors not only had
a good command of the technology capability to deal with the technical problems, but
grasped the procedure of supervision, rules and requirements. Therefore, the training
courses for the supervisors had been enhanced accordingly.
Project Evaluation
45.   The double decks of the main bridge to disperse the traffic volume is the first one
in China. The bridge type due to the nice appearance and safety was spoken in flowing



- 76 -                    ANNEX2
terms widely. Nanchang Bridge was engineering as an up-to-date and sophisticated, by
adopting the multiple points incremental launching method; a total weight of 35,000 tons,
60 tons for each of the box girder, and unbalanced traveling carriage concreting as well as
simultaneous construction in three enclosed segments. All these break the records in the
history of the bridge engineering, ranking among the first famous bridges of China.
46.   Three-deck Simamiao Interchange costs less by reducing the dried land
occupation, river channels and the work quantities on water, to gain the good results.
After completion, the beautiful interchange, decorated with flowers and lawns, became
one of the urban scenic spots.
47.  In road section No. 4, the embankment was elevated with fine sands. As shown in
the tests, the moisture content control and compulsory vibrating compaction was regarded
as the key to its successful completion. The settlement of embankment through two-year
traffic operation is minor, with good results, which accumulated valuable experiences in
the field of backfilling the embankment with fine sands in China.
48.   To modernize the management of Nanchang Bridge, a traffic data bank and
monitoring system was established, including vehicle detection TV monitoring and traffic
data bank management of the approach road and the main bridge. This system is
composed of the multimedia main computer and TV main monitoring system
management for the road and bridge, which has the function of monitoring, control and
the data management.
Cooperation between Employer and World Bank Group
49.   The National Planning Committee approved NBP to be included in the
development projects of highways of Jiangxi and to borrow funds from the World Bank
Group. Technical and economic delegations of the Bank Group repeatedly came to
Nanchang to investigate, analyze, pre-evaluate, evaluate and fully confirm the project
after careful appraisal on the designing of the construction. They hold it that the
designing of NBP is advantageous, with evident economic benefit and perfect
preparations.  Officials from the Bank Group fully understood the restrictions of
transportation on the economic development of our city, actively supported the
constructions of basic transportation facilities and expressed their hearty thanks to the
Municipal Government of Nanchang.
50.   WB had been making efforts to help the implementation of the project. Bank
Group missions visited Nanchang for examination each year and supplied opinions and
suggestions. By the year 1995, they had come totally for 12 times, with a meeting memo
at the end of each time. Delegation from World Bank Group and representatives of the
employer had been working according to the requirements in memo respectively. Both
parties had been cooperating conscientiously and carefully, which led the project to be
developed along a direction of procedure, standardization and activity. As a result,
satisfactory outcome has been achieved.



77 -                     ANNEX2
(a)   Under the guidance of World Bank Group, the project has been carried out
according to the regulations of FIDIC. In the management of construction,
internationalized  practice  is carried  out gradually.   Organized,
standardized working procedures have been adopted and quality of
management has been achieved.
(b)   Under the supervision of Bank Group staff, sincere attitude of confirming
long points and pointing out shortcomings was adopted, which improved
the construction quality of NBP.
(c)   With the help of the World Bank Group, data bank and supervising system
of NBP was established, which prom.1oted the rnodernization of
management of the project.
Generally speaking, the cooperation of the parties is friendly and successful.
Opinions on the Development Plan for Future Operation
51.   Nanchang Bridge has been operating well since it opened to traffic on January 10,
1994. It has reached the expected result and promoted the development of economy.
However, plans and arrangements remain to be worked out. Further capital needs to be
invested so as to complete the auxiliary constructions such as bridge-head park, etc.
52.   Traffic data bank and monitoring system  helps to realize the overall
intercommunication within the scope of Nanchang Bridge.  If it is expanded to
intercommunication with monitoring center of the city, investigation, research and data
collection for overall monitoring of Nanchang shall be realized.
53.   The full range modernized system of management of Nanchang Bridge remains to
be established and complete plan for future operation as well as operating guidelines for
management to be compiled, in order to guide the management of operation.



- 78 -                     ANNEX3
Part 1
ANNEX 3, PART 1: THE ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
Executing Agency: Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department (JPTD)
1.    This Aide Memoire records the major points of discussions and understandings
reached among representatives of the Jiangxi Provincial High-Class Highway
Administration Bureau (JPHHAB) (Mr. Xia Zeng Yu), Ministry of Communications
(MOC) (Mr. Zhang Dehua) and the World Bank (Messrs. 0. Raggambi and Huang Bang
Ben) regarding the implementation of the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project, during
July 20-23, 1995.
NANCHANG-JIUJIANG HIGHWAY
Civil Works
2.    The construction of the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway (113 km) and associated
structures was substantially completed at the end of 1992 and it was opened for traffic on
January 18, 1993. The acceptance certificate for the works was issued to the contractor
(MCC/China and INGRA/Yugoslavia joint venture) on December 31, 1994. The
contractors have been fully paid and respective disbursements have been made from the
Credit proceeds.
3.    As it was noted during the visit of the April 1994 Bank supervision mission, the
riding quality of the highway was reasonably good. However, on some sections the
pavement was showing signs of premature deformation, most likely due to poor
compaction in the lower layers of the pavement or compaction of earthworks. On some
other sections, there have been surface deteriorations requiring patching or asphalt
overlay. These deficiencies have been taken care by the JPHHAB at a cost of about
RMBY 2.15 million. Other emergency and corrective works, -which have been done on
the highway since its opening to traffic included slope protection works, involving the
construction of retaining walls, lining of side drain ditches and replacement of
construction joints on structures at a cost of about RMBY 6.60 million. The cost of
routine maintenance of the highway has averaged about RMBY 11,000/km/year.
Corrective works are expected to continue, and in addition to the type of works indicated
in the preceding, it is intended to seal the shoulders.
4.    JPHHAB was established at the end of 1992 to administer the operation of the
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway.  Its functions at present extend to toll collection,
construction, maintenance and general administration. The Bureau presently employs
about 500 persons, about half of them on toll collection. The construction of nine



-79 -                     ANNEX3
Part 1
administration buildings combined with living quarters for personnel, and buildings for
highway maintenance facilities have been completed.
5.    Traffic on the highway has increased from the average of 2,700 vpd in 1993 to an
average of 3900 vpd during 1994. The about 44 percent increase can be explained by the
January 1994 opening of the Nanchang Bridge for traffic. During the first half of 1995
the traffic reached 4,200 vpd, about 14 percent higher than during the same period in
1994. One of the major concern with the operation of he highway is the high frequency
of accidents. During the 30 months of operation of the highway, there have been 1080
accidents resulting in 156 fatalities and 522 personal injuries. Unfamiliarity with driving
on a high-speed, two lane highway is regarded as a major cause of accidents, which
included a relatively high number of head-on collisions.  Partly because of the accident
hazard, the Province had decided to add a second carriageway to the existing one, and
construction works on the duplication of the highway started in June 1994. Over a 3-km
length the second carriageway is now open for traffic. 'The full length of the second
carriageway is scheduled for completion by the end of 1996.
6.    A  12-km long Connecting Road between the Nanchang Bridge and the
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway was substantially completed and opened to traffic on
January 10, 1994. A six-km section of the connecting road is Bank-financed while the
other six km is financed from the Province's own resources. Civil works contracts A and
B, which have been awarded following LCB for the construction of the Bank-financed
section of the connecting road, did not include paving works which had been carried out
under force account operation, and were fully completed by the end of 1994.
Documentation for this phase of the works was provided to the mission.
Other Project Components
7.    Equipment Procurement. JPHHAB had proceeded with the procurement of
highway maintenance equipment, and thirteen units of seven types of equipment have
been procured at a total cost of $ 2.58million. All equipment has been-delivered.
8.    Road Data Bank/Pavement Management System. On the RDB only some
preparatory work has been done and some data collection hbas taken place. RDB software
has not been installed and tested. On the other hand, CPMIS is operational in all the 11
prefectures and municipalities of the Province. Condition survey covers all the paved
national and provincial network (about 5,000 km). Each prefecture/municipality prepares
a one year maintenance plan based on CPMS outputs, which are taken into account in the
allocation of the maintenance funds. There has been a considerable delay in the initiation
of procurement of road condition survey equipment. It was therefore agreed that
JPHHAB will initiate the procurement of a road roughness meter, a skid resistance
measuring device and a deflection measuring vehicle immediately, in accordance with
para 1, Part C, Schedule 3 of the Development Credit Agreement. Since the equipment is



- 80 -                     ANNEX3
Part 1
not available on the local market, it was agreed that international shopping procedures
will be followed. The estimated cost the above items is $350,000.
9.    Staff Training. The staff training program, involving 68.5 man-months and
covering 13 topics, have been completed.
Other Matters
10.   Utilization of Credit Proceeds. The still undisbursed balance of the credit is
SDR 1,322,723, which includes a deposit of SDR 827,947 in the Special Account.
JPHHAB share is SDR 428,824, which is expected to be utilized as follows: SDR
198,824 for Civil Works, Category (1-A) and (1-C) and SDR 230,000 for Goods
(pavement condition survey equipment), Category (2).
11.   Resettlement. The mission informed JPHHAB and Nanchang Urban and Rural
Construction Bureau (NURCB) about the Bank's November/December 199 Resettlement
Mission's (RM's)findings and conclusions concerning the execution of resettlement
actions. JPHHAB and NURCB agreed that the problems encountered in the course of the
resettlement process have been identified reasonably fairly by the RM. The major issues
raised by the RM have been examined, and information regarding these will be submitted
to the Bank separately by the respective executing agencies by the end of August 1995.
Preparation of an Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
12.   The Bank, in its letter dated May 26, 1995, informed JPHHAB about the scope of
and procedures for the preparation of an ICR for the Project. Regarding the economic
reevaluation for the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway, request for the submission of relevant
data was also attached to the Bank's letter. During the course of discussions the
following key points were covered:
13.   Economic Evaluation
(a)   JPHHAB will make direct contact with Mr. Han-Kang Yen, Research
Analyst, Transport Division for clarification of some aspects of the data,
such as vehicle classification, shadow pricing, costing etc.;
(b)   A traffic flow diagram along the full length of the highway indicating the
volume of through and turning traffic at interchanges will be provided;
(c)   All investments made using provincial resources which could have an
impact on the traffic distribution on the highway, such as the adding of a
second carriageway, will be provided on a year to year basis, including
past, ongoing and scheduled future investments;



-81-                      ANNEX3
Part 1
(d)   In addition to routine maintenance cost, costs associated with elimination
of defects, further protection or improvement cost will be provided in
sufficient detail on a year to year basis; and
(e)   All relevant information will be submitted to the Bank by August 31,
1995.
14.   JPHHAB's Report. It was agreed that JPHHAIB's implemerLtation report(s),
covering all project components (highway, equipment procurement, staff training,
RDB/PMS development) will be submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1995. It was
further agreed that the reports, in addition to providing factual information and data,
would also cover the qualitative aspects of the activities. Regarding civil works, all
major deviations from original plans and major variation orders will be reported and
discussed with sufficient explanation for the changes.
15.   Draft CIR Report by Bank Staff. Based on the report(s) and information
provided by JPHHAB, and records available in the Bank, Bank staff wi][l prepare a draft
CIR report, which is expected to be sent to JPHHAB for review by the end of January
1996, and JBHHAB's comments on the report are expected to be received in the Bank by
the end of February 1996.
16.   JBHHAB's Summary Evaluation Report (ER). A summary evaluation report,
not exceeding 10 pages will be prepared by JPHHAB by mid-February 1996 and
submitted to the Bank, through MOC/MOF by mid-March 1996.
17.   Future Operation Plans and Monitoring. It was agreed that as part of its plan
for the future operation of the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway, JPHHAB would undertake
the following actions:
(a)   Prepare and thereafter maintain an Administrative Operation Manual for
the overall management and the day to day operation of the Nanchang-
Jiujiang Highway. The manual will include (i) a schedule for taking
measures for improving the operational efficiency of the highway, such as
enforcing traffic regulations, taking measures for reducing accidents, etc.;
(ii) procedural instructions and formats for the regular monitoring of
traffic volume, prevailing toll rates, toll revenues, budgets and expenditure
statements, maintenance costs, cost of addiitional investments to improve
the efficiency of the highway system, accident records and any other items
which have a bearing on the operation of the system; (iii) monitoring land
use changes in the highway corridor, which could be attributed to the
highway; (iv) provision for the re-evaluation of the economic benefits,
from the end of 1995 in three year intervals.



-82 -                      ANNEX3
Part 1
(b)   The format for the storage and presentation of information will be
determined by JPHHAB within the framework of JPHHAB's
administration system.
Nanchang, July 23, 1995
Note: The original of the Aide Memoire, signed by representatives of JPHHAB and the
Bank Group, is in the Project File.



-83 -                      ANNEX3
Part 2
ANNEX 3, PART 2: THE ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
Executing Agency: Nanchang Urban and Rural Cons truction Bureau (NURCB)
1.    This Aide Memoire records the major points of discussions and understandings
reached among representatives of the Nanchang Urban and Rural Construction Bureau
(NURCB) (Messrs. Ma Bao Guang and Tao Wei Chang), Ministry of Communications
(MOC) (Mr. Zhang Dehua) and the World Bank (Messrs. 0. Raggambi, Huang Bang
Ben) regarding the implementation of the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Project, during
July 20-23, 1995.
Civil Works
2.    The Nanchang Bridge Component of the Project (9 km) was substantially
completed and opened for traffic on January 10, 1994. Works on all six civil works
contracts, except Contract No. 1, have been formally accepted. The acceptance of works
under Contract No. 1 is under preparation.
3.    NURCB has continued the carrying out of some rectification and further
improvement works related to the bridge and bridge approaches, such as traffic marking,
lighting, plantation of trees and other tidying up works. Iimprovements have been made
also to intersections, such as a round-about and underpasses for non-motorized and
pedestrian traffic at Fushang Road.
4.    The Nunchang Municipality has undertaken several construction projects under its
own financing which are supplemental to the Bank-financed project. These include a
major interchange at the starting point of the bridge approach road and the Jinggangshan
Avenue with elevated roadways connecting to the interchange. The interchange ensures
smooth traffic circulation at this critical point of the City's street network.
5.    The operation of the Nanchang Bridge is the responsibility of the Nanchang
Bridge Management Department (NBMD) of the NURCB. The mrain functions of
NBMD, in addition to general administration, cover toll collection, maintenance and loan
repayment management. NBMD's administrative staff strength is about 20 and there are
150 toll collectors employed. However, several function, such as traffic management, are
contracted to other municipal government entities.
6.    The daily traffic on the bridge is about 15,000 vehicles, which corresponds to
about 22,000 pcus.



- 84 -                    ANNEX3
Part 2
Other Project Components
7.    Staff Training. NURCB staff has participated in the training program coordinate
by MOC as follows: Financial Management (two persons for half-month); Project
Management (one person for one month) and Traffic Engineering (one person for one
month). NURCB Is participation in two more MOC coordinated training programs have
been envisaged (Project Management, and Road Maintenance and Project Evaluation),
however there has been a slowing down in the arrangements of MOC-coordinated
training courses, and it is now doubtful that the remaining part of the original training
program can be completed prior to the closing date of the Credit.
8.    Traffic Monitoring System. Under the Bank Credit, $200,000 was provided for
equipment and expertise to assist NURCB to develop information system for planning
and maintenance and traffic management purposes as briefly described in paras. 3.13 and
3.14 of the Bank's Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Project. Since only a relatively
small amount is available for a multiplicity of objectives, NURCB has requested the use
the available funds for equipment needed for the setting up of a traffic surveillance and
data bank system for the Nanchang Bridge. This would be a sub-system of the traffic
monitoring and management system of Nanchang City. It was agreed that equipment and
accessory items will be procured according to para 1, Part C , Schedule 3 of the
Development Credit Agreement. The list of items to be procured has been provided to
the mission. Since there is a variety of foreign makes of the equipment is available
locally, it was agreed that local shopping procedures will be followed. The installation of
the equipment will be made under contract financed from NURCB's own resources.
Other Matters
9.    Utilization Credit Proceeds. The still undisbursed balance of the credit is SDR
1,322,723, which includes a deposit of SDR 827,947 in the Special Account. NURCB's
share is SDR 892,899, which is expected to be utilized as follows: SDR 710,599 for Civil
Works, Category (I-B),and SDR 182,300 for Goods (equipment for traffic surveillance),
Category (2).
10.   Resettlement. The mission informed NURCB and the Provincial High-Class
Highway Administration Bureau about the Bank I s November/December 1995
Resettlement Mission I s (RM I s) findings and conclusions concerning the execution of
resettlement actions. JPHHAB and NURCB agreed that the problems encountered in the
course of the resettlement process have been identified reasonably fairly by the RM. The
major issues raised by the RM have been examined, and information regarding these will
be submitted to the Bank separately by the respective executing agencies by the end of
August 1995.



-85 -                     ANNEX3
Part 2
PREPARATION OF AN IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)
11.   The Bank, in its letter dated May 26, 1995, informed NURCB about the scope of
and procedures for the preparation of an ICR for the Project. Regarding the economic
reevaluation for the Nanchang Bridge, request for the submission of relevant data was
also attached to the Bank's letter. During the course of discussions the following key
points were covered:
12.   Economic Evaluation.
(a)   NURCB will make direct contact with Mr. Han-Kang Yen, Research
Analyst, Transport Division for clarification of some aspects of the data,
such as vehicle classification, shadow pricing, costing etc.;
(b)   A traffic flow diagram along the full length of the 9-km bridge and bridge
approaches section, indicating the volume of through and turning traffic at
interchanges will be provided;
(c)   All investments made using provincial resources which could have an
impact on the traffic distribution on road segment, such as the adding of
interchanges or grade separations, will be provided on a year to year basis,
including ongoing and scheduled future investments;
(d)   In addition to routine maintenance cost, costs associated with elimination
of defects, further protection or improvernent cost will be provided in
sufficient detail on a year to year basis; and
(e)   all relevant information will be submitted to the Bank by August 31, 1995.
13.   NURCB's Report. It was agreed that NURCB's implementation report(s),
covering all project components (bridges, roads, equipment procurement, staff training,
RDB/PMS and traffic management system development for Nanchang city) will be
submitted to the Bank by September 30, 1995. It was further agreed that the reports, in
addition to providing factual information and data, would also cover the qualitative
aspects of the activities. Regarding civil works, all major deviations from original plans
and major variation orders will be reported and discussed with sufficient explanation for
the changes.
14.   Draft ICR Report by Bank Staff. Based on the report(s) and information
provided by NURCB, and records available in the Bank, Bank staff will prepare a draft
ICR report, which is expected to be sent to NURCB for review by the end of January
1996, and NURCB's comments on the report are expected to be received in the Bank by
the end of February 1996.



- 86 -                    ANNEX3
Part 2
15.   NURCB's Summary Evaluation Report (ER). A summary evaluation report,
not exceeding 10 pages will be prepared by NURCB by mid-February 1996 and
submitted to the Bank, through MOC/MOF by mid-March 1996.
16.   Future Operation Plans and Monitoring. It was agreed that as part of its plan
for the future operation of the Nanchang Bridge, NURCB would undertake the following
actions:
(a)   Prepare and thereafter maintain an Administrative Operation Manual for
the overall management and the day to day operation of the Nanchang
Bridge. The manual will include (i) a schedule for taking measures for
improving the operational efficiency of the bridge and bridge approaches,
such as enforcing traffic regulations, taking measures for reducing
accidents, etc.; (ii) procedural instructions and formats for the regular
monitoring of traffic volume, prevailing toll rates, toll revenues, budgets
and expenditure statements, maintenance costs, cost of additional
investments to improve the efficiency of the bridge/road system, accident
records and any other items which have a bearing on the operation of the
system; (iii) monitoring land use changes in the Nanchang Bridge corridor,
which could be attributed to the construction of the bridge and bridge
approaches; (iv) provision for the re-evaluation of the economic benefits,
from the end of 1995 in three year intervals.
(b)   The format for the storage and presentation of the information will be
determined by NURCB within the framework of NURCB's administration
system.
Nanchang, July 23, 1995
Note: The original of the Aide Memoire, signed by representatives of NURCB and the
Bank Group is in the Project File.



i
MAP SECTION



D. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~p
*0.855'                   5                                  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c      
N~~~~~-
550                                       ANHUI~~~~~~~~~~UJA
it'                                                                   C H   I N  A7
I'-'---  f)".'<              7           IANGX    PRO            IN    IA
Oss,                        Idil 159A "'-AA
1'  09511119                   /5111199195111~~~S-- .. .. d
5,11019  -'5-,. ~ ~       ~       o                       1      l
GUANGDONG                  C AN                             T       55118
. -.                                        5lT9,'  5          1 N 6>AN                         T                                111.



IBRD 20267R
CHINA                                                                        t
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
NANCHANG - JIUJIANG HIGHWAY
X  ~HUBEI                               z   
Proposed Project:
Highway                                                                                   SHI
Bridges
0     Interchange                                                              /                          I\
- - - -  Port of Project Not
Financed by the World Bank                                                     JIUJ           G
Connecting RoadJuj
-       National Roads                                                              Tong/i
--__- Secondory Roads
-4---1   Railroods                                                  /U SHAN
Rivers                                                                              A(1474)
Prefecture Boundaries
Province Boundaries                                                   ongyuan
g-_9 \ r> /SHANGz
0          10         210          30                     S                         ou                         Duoboo
KILOMETERS                                                          UN
deno,ino,o\  In o2neony             
otherD                  f toootiaotang                               \
TI,. Worshld Bodk \.pu
oJy jod     onthe eheng oh
or  (y oreetat                                                                   Henghu
-91-s               8 @,,~~~Xinqiz;u ,
Th. o-e-io-o ofsuchI
'Th.,P Anyiiabu                                                                          t Qiaoshe
bounoor,r . / /  
-~~~    Chnbi0  .'z 0A,                                                                  CNAleNCls  NANHAN
A~~~~~~~~~O~A                       
i   .; kF;NAN<J/ANGSU           I           ,id,JiooR_^d |NCHAN
n  Ct ft C<hU~~~~KNANefonlg   i
*\DEM. REP.   -  P..do S                                                   I d.\./
flIAi4ip.,J'     - *- o.enos. ue_et. PHIUPlNES ,                             |               |     >
NOVEMBER 1 996



1BRD 202232R
The ho-do,e. oior                                To Jwio,,Og                      f          /
other mnf-nt,o shw
othi.  -po do  not/ 
._,,opt.    th~ P.,t of 
Th- World Bo-k G-oo. 
-nyj,~dgn7-t -n the lega
or- an   nosmn                                                                                        Yongzizhou
'on a r e . - I  .h
X                                                           D~~~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANJINDIO
ROADR 
To Jiui/on9                                               /                                  BRiDG
Changbei      /4.
Connecring Rood to                    /-~ 
Nonchang -JiujiongHhwy         /
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
To Xiojiaoop  edProecf                                                         tI G0
interchange
Roads                                                 L,~' 'nGs                                               4\
Rivers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~oDe
,4J  /~~~~~~~~~~~~4U~ZO2
YUNN-
/                                /                             71~~~~~~~GANX
JIANOXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT  /~~~~~~~~~~~NVEMER 99



