Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7430-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HJ.GHWAY PROJECT
JANUARY 12, 1989
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December 1988)
Currency name                                 Renminbi
Currency unit                                 Yuan (Y) - 100 Fen
US$1.00                          =            Y 3.70
US$0.27                          =            Y 1.0
US$1.0 million                   =            Y 3.7 million
US$270,270                       =            Y 1.0 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                              0.621 mile (mi)
1 square meter (m2)                           10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 square kilometer (km2)                      0.4 square miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha) = 0.01 km2        =            2.47 acres (ac) = 15 mu
1 mu                                          666.7 m2 = 0.0667 'ia
1 kilogram (kg)                  =            2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)                          2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAAC      -    Civil Aviation Administration of China
CMC       -    China National Machinery Import & Export Corporation
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FHWA      -    (United States) Federal Highway Administration
GOVAI     -    Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry
HPDI      -    Highway Planning and Design Institute
HSRI      -    Highway Scientific Research Institute
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
JPTD      -    Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department
JTPSDI    -    Jiangxi Transport Planning, Survey and Design Institute
MOC       -    Ministry of Communications
NMG       -    Nanchang Municipal Government
NMRCB     -    Nanchang Municipal and Rural Construction Bureau
O-D       -    Origin-Destination
pcu       -    passenger car unit
PTD       -    Provincial Transport Department
SAA       -    State Auditing Administration
SFYP      -    Seventh Five-Year Plan
SMEDI     -    Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute
VOC       -    Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd       -    vehicle per day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary ...........................................    iv
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...........................................         1
A. Economic Setting                        ..                            1
B.  Traffic ....................................................         1
C. Transport System                        ..                            2
D.  Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s ...............         4
E.  Previous Bank-Financed Projects in the Transport Sector ....         6
II.  JIANGXI HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM ...............................         7
A.  Network ....................................................         7
B.  Traffic Growth and Characteristics               ..                 8
C. The Vehicle Fleet .........                                          9
D. The Trucking Industry                      ..                       10
E. Highway Administration                     ...  11
F. Planning, Budgeting and Financing                .        .         11
G.  Engineering, Construction and Maintenance           .      .       12
H. Road Safety                   .       ..............   13
I.  Staff Training               ..................     14
3. Highway Development:  Objectives for Seventh Five-Year
Development Plan                       ..                          14
III.  THE PROJECT                 ................                       .    15
A.  Project Formulation and Preparation ........................        15
B.  Project Objectives ....................................... . .     15
C. Detailed Features .........   16
D. Cost Estimates                       .....  20
E. Financing                          ..... 22
F. Implementation                   .........   23
G. Procurement ....                             ..    ....... .,..     24
H.  Disbursements              .    .     .     ...................     25
I.  Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring .........................       26
J.  Environmental Effects .................................... . .     26
This Report was prepared by B.P. Kennedy (Engineer) and S. Teravaninthorn
(Economist). B.P. Kennedy is the Task Manager for the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............................................   29
A.  Transport in the Existing Nanchang-Jiujiang Corridor .......   30
B.  Traffic on the Existing Road Without the Project ...........   30
C.  Projected Traffic on the new Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway .....   31
D.  Economic Evaluation of Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway ...........   32
E.  Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis
of the New Highway .........................................   32
F.  Economic Evaluation of Nanchang Bridge .....................   33
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............. ..........   35
TABLES
1.1   China:  Investment in the Transport Sector .....................   37
1.2   Chinat Freight Traffic, 1952-86 ...................... ........   37
1.3   China:  Passenger Traffic, 1952-86 .............................   39
1.4   China:  Highway Design Standard ................................   40
1.5   China:  Motor Vehicles Manufactured and Imported, 1980-86 ......   41
1.6   China:  Total Transport Handled by Public and Social Trucks ....   42
2.1   Jiangxi:  Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1986 .........   43
2.2   Jiangxi:  Vehicle Fleet, 1985 ..................................   44
2.3   Jiangxi:  Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks, 1985 ....   45
2.4   Jiangxi:  Capital Construction Investment in Transport
Sector, 1986 .........................................   46
3.1   Estimated Disbursement Schedule ................................   47
4.1   Nanchang-J4ujiang Road:  Economic Data of Its Service
Area, 1986 ............................   48
4.2   Traffic on the Existing Roads Without New
Nanchang-Jiijiang Highway                  ..                      49
4.3   Projected Traffic on the New Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway and
on Existing Road with Project ................................   50
4.4   Traffic Capacity of the New Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
in Passenger Car Equivalent Unit (PCUs) ......................   52
4.5   Economic Cost Conversion Factors, 1988 .........................   53
4.6   Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis of
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway ....................................   54
4.7   Traffic on the Existing Bayi and Ganjiang Bridges Without
the Nanchang B:idge Project ..................................   55
4.8   :ojected Traffic on the New Nanchang Bridge and on
Existing Bridges with Project ................................   56
4.9   Traffic Capacity of the Nanchang Bridge in Passenger Car
Equivalent Unit (PCUs) .......................................   58
4.10  Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis ...............   59



- iii -
ANNEXES
1. Term of Reference for Consultant Services for Construction Supervision
2. Terms of Reference for Jiangxi Highway Data Bank Preparation, Pavement
Evaluation and Strengthening Program, and Maintenance Management Study
3. Project Implementation Schedule
4. Project Monitoring Indices
5. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department and its
Highway Administration Bureau
2. Organization of the Nanchang Municipal Government
MAPS
1. Jiangxi Provinc4;l Transport Network - IBRD 20254
2.  Nanchang-Jiu3iang Highway - IBRD 20267
3. New Nanchang Bridge - IBRD 20289



- iv -
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:             People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:          Jiangxi Province
Amount:               Credit of SDR 44.7 million (US$61.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA term, with 35 years maturity.  The terms
for on-lending to Jiangxi Province would be for a period
of 20 years with 5 years grace at an interest rate of
4.6? p.a.
Project Obiectives    The proposed new Nanchang-Jiujiang highway would provide
and Descriptiorn:   urgently needed expanded capacity in the important
transport corridor between the provincial capital,
Nanchang and the inland water port of Jiujiang. The
proposed bridge would help channel through traffic from
the highway to bypass tlhe already congested! Nanchang
City. Specific policy, institutional and technological
objectives to be addressed by the project would cover
the improvement of road planning, preparation of a
pavement strengthening and maintenance management
program and staff training. The project would include:
(a) construction of a new 113-km highway between
Nanchang and Jiu'iang; (b) construction of a double-
deck, six-lane bridge across the Gan River at Nanchang,
with a total length of 1,932 m including east and west
approach structure; (c) construction or improvement of
about 6 km of access roads connecting the new bridge to
the new highway; (d) consulting services to help train
JPTD and NMG staff in the supervision and quality
control of the highway and bridge construction;
(e) preparation of a program for pavement strengthening,
betterment and maintenance; (f) assistance to JPTD in
improved road planning, by preparing a computerized Road
Data Bank; (g) staff training; and (h) equipment for
road management, operation and maintenance.
Project Benefits      The principal benefits accruing to users of the new
and Risks:         highway and bridge would be savings in vehicle operating
costs and accident reduction. There are no major risks
foreseen in the project.



Project Costs:                                          Local      Foreign   Total
------(US$ million)------
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway construction             18.4        22.4      40.8
Nanchang Bridge ccnstruction                       14.0        23.8      37.8
Construction of 6 km connecting road                2.7         2.7       5.4
Consulting services and training                     -          2.0       2.0
Equipment                                           0.1         1.9       2.0
Base Costs                                         35.2        52.8     88.0
Physical contingencies                              3.5         5.3       8.8
Price contingencies                                 1.9         2.9       4.8
Subtot&l                                 40.6        61.0    101.6
Land Acquisition                                    7.4          0        7.4
Total Proiect Costs /a                             48.0        61.0    109.0
Financing Plan:
IDA                                             US$61.0 million
Central Government                              US$24.2 million
Jiangxi Province                                 US$7.4 million
NMG                                              US$9.9 million
JPTD                                             US$6.5 million
Total Financing Plan                          US$109.0 million
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY              1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Annual                0    5.0    22.0   16.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Cumulative            0    5.0    27.0   43.0   49.0   55.0   61.0
Economic Rate of Return:  30Z for the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway and 38Z for
Nanchang Bridge.
/a Import duties and taxes are not included in project costs, as the
Government will exempt the project from import duties and taxes.



CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.1      A national policy emphasizing self-sufficiency and the development of
heavy industry has been in place throughout the three decades following the
foundation of the People's Republic in 1949. This policy emphasis has left
China with the legacy of a "transport-intensive' economy and has created heavy
demands for transportation. These demands stem from the country's very high
volume of long-haul traffic in bulk materials and fuels, especially coal. The
government's recent policy statements repeatedly identify transportation and
energy as the two most critical bottlenecks in the economy. The government
has made considerable efforts to reduce waste within the transport system, for
example by eliminating cross hauling of the same commodity and increasing the
processing of raw materials before shipment. However, the current transport
problem in China arises not only from the need for long distance shipment of
coal and other raw materials, but also from the extraordinarily rapid growth
which has resulted from the accompanying structural reforms of China's economy
in recent years. In the past China did not provide sufficient investment to
meet the level of demand for transport in such a large country. Between 1953
and 1985, the transport sector received some Y 154 billion, or 14% of the
total national investment for capital construction (Table 1.1). This percent-
age appears somewhat low compared to other countries at a similar stage of
development. Furthermore, the investments were made without giving due con-
sideration to the most economical mode of transport and this resulted in a
rather unbalanced transport system. Improving efficiency through investment
in and modernization of China's transportation infrastructure, institutions
and services will continue to be a top priority in the development program for
many years to come. The Government is addressing these problems and the
Master Plan for China calls for the construction of about 1.2 million km of
paved road by the year 2000 indicating the high priority assigned to improving
road transport and the substantial economic returns expected from road invest-
ment.
B. Traffic
1.2      Freight Traffic.  Domestic freight transported in 1986 reached 1,383
billion ton-km, a 82 increase over 1985; this represents an average growth
rate of about 8.5% p.a. since 1979, substantially higher than the growth of
domestic product. Conservative projections based on these data and expected
growth in the economy as a whole indicate that domestic freight traffic could
approach 3 trillion ton-km by the year 2000. The modal split has been moving
toward a better balance, with the road share of freight transport increasing
from 92 in 1980 to 142 in 1986. This trend is expected to intensify with
diversification and the continuing rapid growth of short-haul traffic.
Indeed, between 1980 and 1986, the growth of road freight transport reached an



average of 17X p.a., which is substantially higher than the growth rate
recorded by any other mode (Table 1.2).
1.3      Passenger Traffic.  Passenger traffic reached 459 billion passenger
km (p-km) in 1986, a 72 increase over 1985. This reflects an average annual
growth rate of over 122 since 1980 (Tabl.e 1.3). Growth in passenger traffic
might have been even more rapid if it had not been constrained by the limited
capacity of the transport sector to offer more passenger services. The modal
split has changed more rapidly than for freight traffic, and the roads now
handle about 37Z of the traffic compared to less than 102 in 1952 and 28% in
1977. Nevertheless, the mobility of the Chinese people is still much lower
than that of people in countries with coinparab   income levels.  By the turn
of the century, passenger traffic may well reach about 1.5 trillion p-km per
year, or about three and a half times current levels.
C. Transport Systems
1.4      The railway system consists of 52,000 operational route-km, of which
about 9,700 km are double- or multiple-track and about 3,100 km are electri-
fied. The network is served by 11,100 locomotives, 291,000 freight cars and
19,600 passenger coaches. At present, 612 of tractive power is still steam,
332 diesel and 6Z electric. Freight traffic density averages 15 million tons
per route-km--the second highest freight density in the world after the Soviet
Union and 50% higher than the freight density in the United States. Freight
traffic reached 876 billion ton-km in 1986. Growth in freight traffic, which
has averaged 7.3% p.a. since 1980, reached 8Z in 1986. Three quarters of all
freight traffic involves 10 commodities including coal, iron and steel, grain,
timber and construction materials. Despite some possible rationalization in
the transport of natural resources and heavy industrial outputs, transport
demand for the major commodities is expected to grow rapidly. Passenger traf-
fic in 1986 was 258.7 billion p-km; this density of 4.6 million passengers per
route-km ranks second in the world, after India. Although the share of rail
in total traffic is decreasing, the volume of rail traffic will continue to
grow, requiring massive investments in line capacity, motive power and rolling
stock well into the future. The system now absorbs about 50% of tile invest-
ment allocated to the transport sector for capital construction (Table 1.1).
1.5      The port and waterway system is composed of about 109,000 km of
navigable inland waterways and over 18,000 km of coastal lines. Domestic
coastal shipping--which offers an alternative to north-south railway--has
grown in recent years but remains underdeveloped. Foreign trade shipping grew
at an average of about 6% p.a. between 1979 and 1984, 22Z p.a. between 1984
and 1985 and 12% p.a. between 1985 and 1986, reflecting the economic opening
up of China to foreign trade. As a result, ports have become congested. Most
of the 15 major coastal ports are being renovated or expanded, with particular
emphasis on the construction of container and bulk terminals, the latter
mainly for coal. In 1986, 22% of the investment for capital construction in
transport went to this subsector (Table 1.1).
1.6      The civil aviation system consisted of about 216,765 domestic route-
km (and 107,575 international route-km) in 1986, an over threefold increase
since 1976. This network, relatively underdeveloped for the size of China, is
served by about 400 aircraft, most of which are light or medium in size and



seat fewer than 100 passengers. The network has only 97 airports, of which no
more than 15 can serve the larger modern jet aircraft. It was not until the
early 1980s that the civil aviation system received attention; its allocation
for investment in capital construct; .on reached Y 2.0 billion in 1985 for the
first time, after maintaining a level of Y 100 - 300 million for a long period
of time. The system's share of total transport investment increased from
about 3% in 1980 to 13% in 1985 and to about 8Z in 1986 (Table 1.1). However,
the present development emphasizes only passenger transport. Passenger traf-
fic density was 67,350 passengers per route-km in 1986 compared to about 2,300
tons of freight traffic per route-km. Despite poor facilities, the system's
capacities are utilized to the fullest extent. Since 1980 the national air-
line, Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC), has purchased 50 large
passenger aircraft such as Boeings 737, 747, 757, and 767, the Airbus, the MD-
82 and the TU-154. The introduction into service of such a large number of
aircraft will place tremendous pressure on ground facilities including run-
ways, terminals and navigation control. The Bank may be in a position to make
useful contributions in this area.
1.7      The highway system totalled about 962,800 km in 1986 and, although
still relatively underdeveloped, it is the sixth largest in the world.
Investment in the highway subsector has been rather modest, at 16% of total
investment in the transport sector. Since the early 1980s, the network has
borne an increasing share of traffic (paras. 1.2 and 1.3). The network is,
for the purposes of design and technical specifications, classified by the
Ministry of Communications (MOC) as Expressway and Classes I, II, III and IV
for various traffic capacities (Table 1.4). Table 1.4 also shows the geo-
metric standards now being used. For administrative purposes roads are
classified as trunk, county, rural and special purpose.
1.8      The rapid growth of highway traffic stems not only from the country's
rapid economic growth but also from other factors such as the national policy
of shifting short-haul rail transport to road, the expansion of the service
sector and rural industries and the increased processing of primary materials
before shipping. Furthermore, with the increasing foreign trade, growth in
road traffic will be concentrated in transport corridors serving the main
ports and their hinterlands and, with the containerization of the higher value
commodities, much of this foreign trade is expected to go by road. The new
economic activities have generated traffic far in excess of what the existing
facilities can accommodate. Congestion o'.i roads, resulting primarily from the
mix of slow-moving nonmotorized and motorized traffic, is a serious problem
and road pavements are showing increasing signs of distress.
1.9      The vehicle fleet, totaling some 4.0 million units in 1986, consists
mostly of trucks, which outnumber passenger buses by three to one and cars by
nine to one. Most trucks are of four-ton capacity with outmoded designs and
low fuel efficiency. Most of the trucks and buses are gasoline powered.
These vehicles were manufactured domestically and the production of trucks has
been barely sufficient to replace the retired vehicles, let alone meet the
fast growing demand. It was not until the early 1980s that a large number of
modern vehicles was imported (Table 1.5) and joint-ventures with foreign manu-
facturers were started to manufacture trucks. Production in 1985 was about
440,000 units which, for the first time, exceeded the replacement demand by
12%, assuming a ten-year life. This production contributed to the creation of
a new fleet.



- 4 -
1.10     The trucking industry consists of ";:iblic trucks" operated by truck-
ing companies affiliated with local (provincial or district) highway authori-
ties, and Psocial" or "own-account" trucks operated by factories, any coopera-
tive organization and, recently, private individuals. The relaxation of
trucking regulations in the early 1980s allowed own-account trucks to haul
cargo for other factories and cooperatives and thus promoted competition
between public and own-account trucks. In fact, own-account trucks absorbed
most of the traffic growth over the past few years which occurred more in the
short-haul traffic (Tables 1.6). The structure of the industry is undergoing
major changes spurred by the increased demand for road transport and market
forces are playing a major important role in shaping the industry in future.
1.11     The administration of the highway network in the provinces is done by
the Provincial Transport Departments (PTDs) through their Bureaus of Highways.
Administratively, the PTDs come under the jurisdiction of the provincial
government. The Ministry of Communication (MOC) provides general policy
guidance and support to the PTDs through its nationwide policies and regula-
tions, specifying design and construction standards. MOC also provides
specialized manpower for planning and design and construction equipment for
major provincial civil works if needed. However, the PTDs are financially
independent of MOC and carry out all road planning, construction, maintenance
and administration of roads and waterways in the provinces. Only for some
large projects considered for national construction investment in which MOC
would share part of the financial burden, would MOC be more heavily involved.
D. Transport Issues and Objectives in the 1980s
1.1.;    The transport system has been severely taxed by the pace of recent
economic developments, and capacity constraints are evident in all modes. By
the end of the Seventh Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (1986-90), freight traffic is
projected to be 45Z higher and passenger traffic 602 higher than in 1985. A
greater share of the increase would fall on road transport, especially in
rural areas where increased agricultural and small scale industrial production
have created an urgent demand for better farm-to-market transport services.
Road transport also will be called upon to meet a growing share of the demand
for passenger transportation from the increasingly mobile population. A for-
mal multi-modal transport investment plan does not yet exist, mainly because
of the multiplicity of ministries and agencies dealing with transport, the
decentralization of responsibilities for transport to the provinces, and the
magnitude of the task of preparing such a plan in a country as large as China.
1.13     There are plans to improve the coordination of transport planning at
central government level by strengthening the transport planning function in
the State Planning Commission; this would greatly facilitate the preparation
of an overall transport investment plan. The national networks for air, rail,
road and waterways are, however, centrally planned with input from the pro-
vinces. The HOC has classified the national road system and identified either
gaps or substandard links and the Bank is assisting in filling these gaps.
Furthermore, the government, with the assistance of the Bank Group, is con-
centrating on some strategic studies and on a "transport corridor" approach
whereby the focus of investment effort is on removing the most blatant tran-
sport bottlenecks in what the government has identified as high priority cor-



- 5 -
ridors (para 1.15). In order to facilitate the flow of foreign trade, the top
priority is given to corridors linking ports and industrial development zones
or among industrial zones themselves. This strategy is well integrated with
macroeconomic objectives. Planning in Jiangxi province is described in paras.
2.9, 2.20, 2.21 and 2.22.
1.14     There is severe congestion in many segments of the railway network;
capacity is saturated on several key lines and an acute shortage of wagons
exists. The delivery of energy supplies (i.e., coal) is severely constrained.
The policy is to invest in rail line electrification and new line construc-
tion; however it will take years to alleviate the bottlenecks between major
mining areas and coastal cities. Fcr civil aviation, CAAC plans to build some
20 medium to large airports over the period 1987 to 1990 and to enlarge and
rebuild about 40 small airports. Furthermore, Beijing International Airport,
Guangzhou Baiyun Airport, and Shanghai Hongqiao Airport will be expanded and
equipped with advanced navigation equipment; when finished, capacity would
double. For the port and waterway' system, the policy is to expand
substantially its facilities to relieve the growing hindrance to external
trade caused by inadequate berth capacity and container handling capacity. On
intermodal transport, inadequate road and rail links between ports and hinter-
land hamper the efficient turnaround of arriving cargo in a number of ports.
The policy is to integrate transportation networks, in particular for coal and
for import/export trade, by providing container-handling facilities, inter-
modal freight and passenger transport centers. To facilitate these develop-
ments, the Plan envisions significant institutional changes in the sector,
including extending the policy of separating the regulatory functions of
government from the operating and financial functions of enterprises and dele-
gating greater authority to the enterprises (recently begun in the ports sub-
sector). Continuing adjustments in charges for transportation services are
expected to assist funding of investments in the sector from internally gene-
rated resources.
1.15     Government policy for the highway subsector in the 1980s focuses on
the simultaneous implementation of programs for road network expansion to meet
the increasing demand and for rehabilitation of existing substandard roads.
This differs from the policy of the past 30 years which emphasized road lengLh
and left China with a legacy of poor quality substandard roads that cannot
serve the recent increased traffic. The Bank Group would support the twin
objectives by assisting the process of network expansion while helping to
direct development policy toward greater quality improvements. This support
is provided within the framework of longer-term objectives for improving
efficiency and cost-effectiveness in meeting the increasing transport demand.
These longer-term objectives address specific policy, institutional and
technological areas such as: improved economic evaluation techniques for the
selection of road investments; improved intermodal planning; efficient tran-
sport tariff, road user taxation and road financing systems; increased capa-
city to relieve road congestion; improved road safety; developing a methodo-
logy for road pavement evaluation; preparation of pavement strengthening and
maintenance management programs; increased efficiency in the road transport
industry; improved efficiency in construction through continued support of
Government's policy of competitive bidding and development of the local con-
tracting industry; staff training; modernization of highway design and updat-
ing and improvement of construction and material specifications; and support



. 6 -
of highway research. Substantial progress has been made on road safety, road
congestion, and paved road evaluation to prepare strengthening and maintenance
management programs; studies related to these objectives have been done under
ongoing projects and the findings of these studies are being implemented
(paras. 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 2.18). A study to identify the best way to
finance the expansion, betterment and maintenance of the network is underway.
The Bank Group his also begun discussions with the Central and Provincial
governments on the potential for using sector lending as a means of achieving
some of these objectives.
E. Previous Bank-Financed Projects in Transport Sector
1.16     The Bank supports the government's objectives and initiatives for
development of the transportation sector with both financial and technical
assistance. The Bank is financing four highway projects (Loan 2539/Credit
1594 and Loan 2811/Credit 1792, Loan 2951/Credit 1917, and Loan 2952); the
first one involves the construction or improvement of national and rural
roads, the second one involves the construction of the first expressway in one
of the busiest transport corridors in China, between Beijing, Tianjin and the
new port of Xingang at Tanggu; the last two are provincial highway projects
which aim to provide high standard highway capacity in the most important and
congested corridors of Sichuan and Shaanxi Provinces. The projects also sup-
port highway research to achieve some of the objectives for the highway sub-
sector outlined above (para. 1.15)with respect to: improving the planning of
the road network expansion and maintenance by preparing a Road Data Bank,
preparing a suitable methodology for evaluating road pavements, seeking low-
cost solutions to road congestion, improving the collection and analysis of
traffic accident statistics to identify the measures needed to reduce traffic
accidents and, most important of all, identifying how best to finance the
expansion, improvement and rehabilitation of the highway network. Three
important studies on road safety, road congestion and on the methodology for
road pavement evaluation have been completed and implementation of the
findings would start soon. A study on road user charges and road financing is
also underway. These studies are laying a solid foundation for the
development of a sound strategy for deciding on the investment allocations in
the subsector between main highways and rural roads and among construction,
upgrading, rehabilitation and maintenance.
1.17     Progress on the four highway projects presently underway is satisfac-
tory. Physical progress on the First Highway Project (Loan 2539/ Credit 1594)
is on schedule, and work has started on four major civil works contracts
recently awarded under the Beijing-Tianjin-Tanggu Expressway Project (Loan
2811/Credit 1792); under the Sichuan Provincial Highway Project (Loan
2951/Credit 1917) and the Shaanxi Provincial Highway Project (Loan 2952) the
prequalification of contractors has been completed and bidding should start
soon. Four railway projects (Loans 2394, 2540, Loan 2678/Credit 1680 and Loan
2968) have assisted with the expansion of capacity on key routes and the manu-
facture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches and signaling equipment. A
railway operations costing system has been introduced on a pilot basis as a
result of a joint Bank/China collaborative effort. Four earlier port
projects (Loans 2207, 2689,. 2907 and 2877) would finance the expansion of
berths and berth handling capacity of four of the fourteen major ports in
China, i.e., Tianjin, Shanghai, Huangpu and Dalian Ports, and the recently
approved Xiamen, Ningbo and Shanghai projects will address similar
issues in those ports, The projects included components to improve



operations and studies focusing on intermodal links to the hinterland and port
operating costing systems. In addition to these subsector-specific
operations, the Bank has recently begun to assist the government in the
conduct of strategic studies of a wider nature; a review of the utilization of
inland water transport was completed and translated into Chinese for
distribution and discussion among the Chinese authorities, another study on
comprehensive transportation for Guangdong Province has been completed and a
comprehensive transport study for the greater Shanghai area including relevant
parts of Jiangsu and Zhejiang provinces is about to start. All projects are
proceeding satisfactorily.
II. JIANGXI HIGHWAY TRANSPORT SYSTEM
A. Network
2.1       The transport network in Jiangxi province consists of 1,538 route-km
of railways, 4,937 km of navigable inland waterways and 31,875 km of highways.
The density of the three transport modes is relatively balanced compared to
other provinces in China (Table 2.1). Furthermore, since the province is
located in the middle reaches of the Changjiang (Yangtze River), water trans-
port helps to absorb some of the excess short-haul demand for transport on
railways and highways. However, inland water transport is limited by the
capacity of the navigable river channel. Of the 4,937 km of navigable inland
waterways, only about 984 km have depths of more than one meter, and service
is limited to ships which have a capacity of 5,000 tons or less. Although the
road network density in the province is slightly higher than the country
average, its overall condition and standard are poor. Most of the network was
built in the 19609 when economic activity was low, so the roads were not
designed to accommodate the large traffic volumes and heavier vehicles of
today. Of the 31,875 km of road network in 1986, there were no roads of Class
I standard, only 408 km (1.3Z) of Class II standard and 854 km (2.7z) of Class
III standard. Less than 12? of the network (3,681 km) has a surface of
asphaltic concrete or bituminous pavement, and about 50Z of the total road
network is of such poor quality that it is unclassified. The technical and
administrative classification of the network is shown below:



- 8 -
ROAD NETWORK IN JIANGXI PROVINCE (1986)
Length  X of total
Classitication      (km)    network        Pavement              Quality
Class I                  0      0     -
Class II               408     1.3    Bituminous Penetration    All-weather roads
macadam
Close III              864     2.7    Bituminous-coated        All-weather road
macadam
Clase IV            14,824    48.6    Bituminous-lime treat-    2,419 paved road
ment or gravel surfaced
Unclassified        16,789    49.5    Improved earth surfaced   Impassable after
rain
Total               31,875   100.0
Administrative
Trunk road           9,286    29.1
Of which:
National road    (3,000)    (9.4)
Provincial road   (8,288)   (19.7)
County and rural
road              22,222    69.7
Special purpose
road                 867     1.1
'otal               31.875   100.0
B. Growth and Characteristics of Traffic
2.2       Between 1980 and 1986, road freight traffic in Jiangxi province grew
at about 112 a year and passenger traffic grew at about 18Z a year. Growth in
freight traffic was particularly high in the last two years, averaging about
262, as shown in the table below. This rapid growth in road freight traffic
is significantly higher than the growth in railway traffic (12% p.a.). On
some major transport corridors in the province such as from Nanchang to
Pingxiang, Nanchang to Shanglao, Ganzhou to Daye, and the project corridor
road from Nanchang to Jiujiang, the growth rates for road freight traffic
average about 142 p.a. during 1980-86. These corridors, besides forming the
main east-west and north-south highway links in the province, also connect
Jiangxi with the neighboring provinces of Hunan, Zhejiang, Guangdong, Hubei
and Anhui.



- 9 -
ROAD TRAFFIC IN JIANGXI PROVINCE (1980-86)
Freight traffic               Passenger traffic
(million ton-km)            (million passenger-km)
Highways      Railways          Highways      Railways
1980               2,895            n.a.              498
1982               3,324            n.a.              694
1984               3,575            n.a.              980
1985               4,268          15,661            1,159
1986               5,367          17,499            n.a.
Growth rate         10.8                             18.4
(Z p.a.)    (1980-86)                        (1980-85)
25.7           11.7
(1985-86)      (1985/86)
2.3      Like other provinces in China, Jiangxi set up a systematic and fairly
thorough traffic counting system for its major trunk roads in 1978. The
counts, which include nonmotorized vehicles, are made on a 24-hour basis every
day on some representative sections of the trunk road network; other counts
are made 2-3 times a month on a 16-hour basis. However, when needed, this
intensive, routine counting system is augmented with origin-destination sur-
veys which provide more accurate information on traffic flows for highway
planning and design purposes.
C. The Vehicle Fleet
2.4      The size of the vehicle fleet in Jiangxi is measured in terms of the
number of trucks per km of road network and the number of buses per thousand
residents. By these measures, the fleet is smaller than the country average
(Table 2.2). Although there has been a rapid increase in the number of own-
account trucks in recent years, the supply of trucks is still not sufficient
to satisfy the growing dem.and. Some of the excess demand for short-haul
transport is absorbed by farm tractors; animal-drawn carts also are a common
means of very short-haul transport in the province. Although it provides a
temporary solution to the truck shortage, this nonmotorized traffic impedes
the progress of faster moving traffic and creates congestion along busy
corridors.
2.5      The vehicle fleet in Jiangxi province grew at an average rate of
about 10X p.a. over the past decade (1976-86). Growth was particularly high
in the early 1980s, when the country relaxed controls on the importation of
foreign vehicles (see table below). The composition of the vehicle fleet in
the province is very nearly the same as for the country as a whole, i.e.,
there is a high proportion of trucks to passenger vehicles. In 1986, the
vehicle fleet in Jiangxi province consisted of 762 trucks and 24Z buses and
passenger cars. Over 90Z of the truck fleet consists of medium to large size
vehicles with four-ton capacities or greater. The composition and rate of



- 10 -
growth of the vehicle fleet are expected to remain about the same for several
years; this highlights the need for the planned network expansion and road
quality improvements in order to satisfy the increasing traffic demands.
COMPOSITION OF VEHICLE FLEET IN JIANGXI PROVINCE (1976-86)
Buses and
Total              Trucks                  passenger cars
vehicle          Heavy  Large &                  Large
Year                 fleet   Total  duty   medium   Small  Total  buses  Others
1976               33,612  28,097  1,879  25,789       429   5,515  2,370   3,145
1980               51,258  43,537  2,839  37,828       287   9,973  3,541   6,432
1984               62,305  48,107  2,314  45,163       63C  14,198  5,520   8,678
1985               77,595  57,848  2,810  49,805   5,233  19,747  7,209  12,538
1986               85,120  64,359  3,776  51,691   8,892  20,761  6,861  13,900
1976-86 growth
(C p.a.)           9.7     8.6    7.2      7.2    35.4    14.2   11.2    16.2
D. Trucking Industry
2.6      Competition between public and own-account trucks has increased in
recent years. There is one public trucking company directly under the pro-
vincial transport department and at least one public trucking company in each
county and township; the latter report directly to the county transport
bureaus concerned. The official trucking tariff ranges from Y 0.18-0.20 per
ton-km, depending on the type of commodity being hauled and the condition of
roads. With this regulated tariff, the public trucking companies have not
done well financially and were unable to expand their businesses to meet the
rapidly increasing demand; however, the expansion of own-account trucking
companies indicates that the regulated tariff provides an adequate margin of
profit. The public trucking companies have problems of operational efficiency
caused by high management and overhead costs, many old poorly designed trucks
with inefficient gasoline-powered engines, and the state regulatory require-
ments which give priority to hauling certain kinds of nonprofitable commodi-
ties such as coal. In general, the average hauling distance of public trucks
is longer than that of own-account trucks (Table 2.3).
2.7      Although rapid econrmic growth and the relaxation of trucking regula-
tions are revitalizing the industry, there are still several areas that could
be improved to make the industry more efficient. The introduction of trucks
of appropriate size with modern designs and energy efficient engines should be
accelerated. The introduction of modern techniques for managing the truck
fleet is urgently needed since, although there apparently is an excess demand,
many trucks are underutilized, have low load factors and, very frequently,
empty back-hauls. Efficiency could be increased through the use of road
freight and intermodal freight terminals to rationalize freight movements and
maximize loads.



- 11 -
E. Highway Administration
2.8      Chart 1 shows the organization of the JPTD and the Jiangxi Highway
Administration Bureau (JHAB)--one of JPTD's eight bureaus and institutes. The
JPTD reports directly to the provincial government and acts as its administra-
tive arm for planning, budgeting and financing of the transport sector in the
province. However, the JPTD follows the nrofessional, technical and general
transport policy guidance issued by MOC. Similarly, administratively the JHAB
reports directly to JPTD but receives professional and technical guidance from
the Highway Bureau of MOC. The main function of the JHAB is to construct and
maintain all national and provincial roads in the province. It has direct
control over 11 Prefectural Highway Bureaus, 95 County Highway Units (one unit
per county), and about 1,400 road maintenance groups. On average, there is
one road maintenance group for every approximate 10 km of classified road
network. There are three levels or administration for the road network in
Jiangxi province: (a) JPTD administers 15,000 km of provincial and trunk
roads and a small number of important county roads; (b) county highway bureaus
administer the county and rural roads; and (c) village highway units admini-
ster the village roads.
F. Planning, Budgeting and Financing
2.9      Planning.  The JPTD has overall responsibility for planning all road
investments and for maintaining the highway network in the province. However,
the prefecture, county and village level highway administration units have
considerable autonomy in planning smaller road investments which, as a
formality, are subject to the approval of the JPTD. The three administration
units prepare investment plans for the highway network under their jurisdic-
tion and submit them to the planning division of JPTD by September of each
year for the next year's plan. Before the end of November, JPTD approves the
next year's plan for each county or local authority concerned. Similarly, the
five-year road development plan is prepared by JPTD using inputs from lower
level administrative groups revised to conform to national or provincial
guidelines for development policy during the plan period. Similar to what is
done at the national level, project screening has so far been done on the
basis of the most critical bottlenecks for local transport. Howaver, when the
list of these high priority projects is exhausted and intermodal choices need
to be considered, planning is likely to be more complex. At present,
feasibility studies for major investments are reviewed and cleared by SPC.
The JPTD proposes to improve planning by use of a computerized road data bank
or management information system, which would contain all data related to the
existing road system. The Nanchang municipality also proposes to improve the
planning of city street expansion and traffic facilities by a computerized
data bank and traffic management information system. A start would be made
urnder the project in the setting up of such data banks (para. 3.13).
2.10     Budgeting.  As occurs in almost all sectors in China, the JPTD
planning division always adopts a balanced-budget policy. The proposed high-
way investment is always balanced against the revenue earmarked for highway
development; the amount of investment approved for each year is closely
related to the amount of road maintenance revenue expected for the same year.
The implication of this balanced budget approach is that if the revenue is



- 12 -
small, the investment program will be equally small even though the province
may have a large demand for transport. In October of each year and before
JPTD approves projects for next year, the current year's planned investments
are reviewed against actual investments and revenue receipts and adjustments
are made where needed.
2.11     Financing.  Since 1985, state regulation allows up to 25Z of road
maintenance revenues to be used for new road construction. However, in order
to ensure that adequate funds would still be available for maintenance, the
road maintenance fee was increased. At present, the road maintenance fee
amounts to 15X of total revenue for public trucks and Y 105 per month per one
payload ton for own-account trucks. (The road maintenance fee for farm trac-
tors is collected by local authorities, not by JPTD.) The total road
maintenance revenues collected in 1986 was Y 220.4 million which is barely
sufficient to construct and maintain the rather modest road development
program and existing network in Jiangxi Province. and a contribution of Y 3
million was received from MOC. Of the total expenditure, 21X was expended on
new road construction, 21Z on periodic maintenance, 17? on routine
maintenance, and 41? on administration overhead, and miscellaneous.
G. Engineering, Construction and Maintenance
2.12     Road and bridge projects are engineered by the planning and design
institutes at provincial, prefecture and county levels. The Jiangxi Transport
Planning, Survey and Design Institute (JTPSDI) is responsible for designing
all major road, bridge and tunnel projects. In designing major road projects,
JTPSDI is assisted by several institutes of MOC: (a) the Highway Planning and
Design Institute (HPDI); (b) the Second Survey and Design Institute, located
at Wuhan, which designed the proposed Nanchang-Jiujiang Road; and (c) the
Highway Scientific Research Institute (HSRI). In designing bridges and
tunnels, JTPSDI is assisted by: (a) the First or Second Survey and Design
Institute; (b) the Provincial Railway Design Institute; and (c) other specia-
lized design institutes such as the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design
Institute, which designed the proposed new Nanchang Bridge. HPDI is available
to assist in economic evaluation--a practice which is now beconming routine for
major road and bridge investments. HSRI provides advice on problems pertain-
ing to geotechnical design and construction materials. Foreign consultants
have not been used for highway design in Jiangxi since the local institutes
are professionally competent and have adequate manpower to do the work.
However, since contracting of civil works through international competitive
bidding (ICB) has not yet been done, some foreign consulting assistance will
be needed to prepare bid documents suitable for competitive bidding and to
supervise civil works contracts.
2.13     In the past, road and bridge construction was normally done as a
force account operation by construction bureaus attached to the provincial,
prefecture or county governments. Since the State Planning Commission
directed that all major civil works be awarded after competitive bidding, a
domestic contracting industry has been growing rapidly. Many of the larger
provincial construction bureaus are being reorganized into financially inde-
pendent contracting companies. These companies are expected to apply for
prequalification, either individually or as joint ventures with foreign con-
tractors, to bid on the road and bridge contracts to be financed under the
project.



- 13 -
2.14     The national and provincial roads are well maintained by the JPTD.
However, maintenance costs are rising rapidly due to the poor quality of roads
and the recent increase in traffic. Maintenance of these roads now costs
between Y 2,500 and Y 3,500 per kilometer. Maintenance of the county roads is
effectively organized and carried out with some 95 units throughout the pro-
vince looking after about 17,000 km of road, mainly through labor-intensive
operations. Under the proposed project assistance would be given for the
evaluation of the existing provincial road pavements and the preparation of a
pavement strengthening and paved road maintr ince management program
(para. 3.13).
H. Road Safety
2.15     The statistics available on road traffic accidents reveal an unsatis-
factory situation regarding road safety in Jiangxi province. The low geo-
metric design standards and poor quality of most roads, combined with the mix
of slow- and fast-moving traffic, are not conducive to road safety. Under
Loan 2539-CHA/Credit 1594-CHA the first Highway Project, the Bank is support-
ing the HSRI's research program which included a study on road safety. This
study covered: (a) a review of the existing system of reporting, recording
and analyzing road accident statisticE; (b) recommendations for improving data
collection, recording, and analysis on road traffic accidents; and (c) identi-
fication of a program for reducing road traffic accidents. The Final Report
on the study was issued in December 1987.
2.16     The study has found that road traffic accidents are a serious problem
in China. International comparisons show China to have one of the highest
accident rates in the world; in 1985 the fatality rate from road accidents was
100 deaths per 10,000 vehicles. The cost of road accidents to the economy of
China is estimated at Y 2.9 billion or US$786 million annually. With the
present low vehicle ownership of 4.5 vehicles per 1,000 population and the
high growth rate of the vehicle fleet of about 25Z annually over recent years
continues, there is considerable scope for continued growth in vehicle owner-
ship. Therefore road traffic accidents are bound to increase significantly
unless urgent actions are taken now.
2.17     The study has identified the following actions to be needed:
(a) a road safety audit of road users;
(b) improved police accident reporting;
(c) introduction of a computer based accident analysis system (developed
by the U.K. Transport and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL) and
adopted to Chinese language and conditions);
(d) identification of accident causes including black spots;
(e) preparation of working manuals and guidelines for road safety
design;
(f) improved administrative procedures and coordination and manpower
training;



- 14 -
(g) preparation of an action plan and the identification of the
resources and organizational structure to implement the plan.
2.18     Under the proposed project a start will be made on implementing the
findings of the study in Jiangxi Province. At negotiations, it was agreed
with the Jiangxi provincial government and Nanchang Municipal Government (NMG)
that the findings of the HSRI research study would be implemented in a program
suitable for Jiangxi province and that a start would be made on implementing
the program by January 1990. The implementation would be financed by local
funds; MOC's HSRI staff would help in implementing the program.
I. Staff Tr4.iing
2.19     The staffs of the provincial and county transport departments and the
Nanchang municipality generally are competent, but many have not been exposed
to new technology and therefore often resort to outmoded work methods and
equipment. Planning for technical manpower and assessing related training
needs for the provincial highway subsector have been resumed after a hiatus,
and JPTD and Nanchang municipality are presently preparing a manpower plan.
However, strengthening and expanding formal education and ongoing training
programs will continue to upgrade and increase the number of technical staff
and thereby meet the demand for trained personnel. Meanwhile, some urgently
needed training has been identified and will be supported under the proposed
project (paras. 3.15-3.16).
J. Highway Development: Objectives for the Seventh
Five-Year Development Plan
2.20     Compared with other provinces in China, Jiangxi has invested surpris-
ingly little in the transport sector, whether measured in terms of total or
per capita investment for capital construction (Table 2.4). The province's
total investment spending in transport in 1986 recorded some improvement
compared to 1985. Its 1985 investment spending in transport sector was
smaller than that spent in the Xizang autonomous region--the poorest province
in China--and was among the five lowest spending levels in the country. The
low level of spending clearly has contributed to the lack of transportation
and associated bottlenecks in developing the provincial economy.
2.21     The major policy objectives of Jiangxi province for the Seventh Five-
Year Development Plan give priority to: (a) upgrading the poor quality of
provincial trunk roads; and (b) constructing the missing links on the existing
network in important corridors and constructing new trunk roads. The pro-
vince's major projects include the upgrading of four large road sections:
(a) Nanchang-Jiujiang; (b) Pingxiang-Shanglao; (c) Taihe-Chonghua; and
(d) from Nanchang to the new airport. The 113-km Nanchang-Jiujiang section
would have a Class II road width and Class I engineering standards. About 220
km of the Pingxiang-Shanglao section would be upgraded to a Class II standard
(total cost Y 110 million) and the remaining 380 km would be upgraded under
the Eighth Five-Year Development Plan. The Taihe-Chonghua road, extending 368
km, would be upgraded to Class II (total cost Y 217 million). The 15-km
stretch of road between Nanchang and the new airport would be the first
standard Class I road cf the province (total cost Y 32 million). The total
cost for these major construction projects would represent several years of



- 15 -
road maintenance revenues; therefore in order to implement these projects
substantial additional financing would be required. Of the four major capital
construction investments in the highway subsector, JPTD considered the
proposed highway project as the highest priority because of the high traffic
demand in the corridor and because of the highways importance as an
interprovincial main north-south link (paras. 3.4, 3.5, 3.7, and 3.8).
2.22     In addition to expansion of the road network, the existing paved
roads would be strengthened and improved, and the management of the highway
system would be modernized through the introduction of improved road planning,
computerized design, improved specifications for construction materials and
construction methods, modern contracting and supervision procedures, improved
paved road maintenance management systems and the training of provincial staff
in a variety of civil engineering fields, financial accounting and cost con-
trol, and equipment management and maintenance. The Bank is discussing with
the central and Jiangxi provincial governments the potential for using sector
lending to the province as a more effective means of achieving the objectives
in the subsector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation and Preparation
3.1      The shortage of capacity in all the transport modes is a major
bottleneck to economic development in China and the Government is seeking Bank
Group help to remove this bottleneck. The Seventh Five-Year Plan recognized
the need to expand and improve the road network to meet the increasing demand
for road transport and to relieve the freight and passenger demand on the
railway. There is also an urgent need for more modern techniques in the plan-
ning, design, construction and maintenance of roads. The proposed Nanchang-
Jiujiang highway and the Nanchang bridge are part of the plan to provide
adequate capacity in one of the most important corridors of Jiangxi province.
The Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department was responsible for preparing the
Nanchang-Jiujiang highway component and the Nanchang Municipal Government was
responsible for preparing the Nanchang bridge component.
B. Project Objectives
3.2      By financing the construction of a high capacity highway and a con-
necting highway bridge in Nanchang City, the project would help to satisfy the
demand for road transport in the main north-south corridor in Jiangxi province
and support the Government's objective of increasing the efficiency of road
transportation in general. Specific policy, institutional and technological
objectives to be addressed under the project would be:
(a) introducing improved road and urban traffic planning techniques;
(b) evaluating existing paved roads and preparing road strengthening and
paved roads maintenance management programs;
(c) modernizing design, construction materials specifications and
contract documents pertaining to road and bridges;



- 16 -
(d) supporting the province's change to competitive bidding for civil
works and developing the institutional capacity for supervising
civil works construction;
(e) improving road safety; and
(f) training staff.
C. Detailed Features
3.3      To accomplish these objectives, the project would include:
(a) construction of a 113-km two-lane, Class II highway between Nanchang
and Jiujiang;
(b) construction of a double-deck, six-lane bridge across the Gan River
at Nanchang, with a total length of 1,932 m including east and west
approach structures;
(c) construction or improvement of about 6 km of access roads connecting
the new bridge to the new Nanchang-Jiujiang highway;
(d) consulting services to help supervise construction and train the
JPTD and Nanchang Municipal engineers in the supervision and quality
control of the highway and bridge construction work;
(e) provision of specialized maintenance and operation equipment for the
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway and the Nanchang Bridge;
(f) assistance to the JPTD and Nanchang Municipality in improving road
and urban traffic planning by setting up computerized road and
traffic data banks and providing the necessary equipment and
expertise;
(g) assistance in preparing a road pavement strengthening and paved road
maintenance management program by providing equipment and expertise
to train JPTD staff;
(h) implementing a Road Safety Program; and
(i) training of JPTD and Nanchang Municipal staff in the areas of trans-
port planning and other highway and transport-related topics.
3.4      Construction of the Nanchang-Jiuiiang Highway.  Nanchang, the capital
and political, cultural and economic center of Jiangxi Province, is connected
by an existing 150.7-km road to Jiujiang City, an important river port city
located on the southern bank of the Changjiang (Yangtze) and a major distribu-
tion center and gateway for land and water transport in northern Jiangxi.
Eight kilometers of the southern section of this road between Yingshangqiao
and Jiaoqiao were upgraded to Class II standards in 1983. Apart from this,
most of the existing road is constructed to Class III or Class IV standards
and about 95 km have a subgrade width of less than 8.5 meters. Vertical



- 17 -
grades exceed 8Z at eight locations and reach a maximum of 13Z; the horizontal
curves have radii less than 50 m at 12 locations. The original gravel surface
was treated with bitumen in 1972 but the design life of the pavement has now
been exceeded; the cracked and potholed pavement is deteriorating rapidly and
maintenance costs are rising. Furthermore, the existing 11 large and 37 small
bridges and most culverts were not structurally designed to carry the fast
growing modern heavy traffic. With its low standard and poor quality pave-
ment, the existing road does not have the capacity to meet the increasing
demand for road transport along this important corridor.
3.5      The new Nanchang-Jiujiang road (see Map IBRD 20267) would be 113 km
long and would be designed to Class I geometric standards, but with a
Class II, two-lane pavement width initially; the existing road would continue
to serve local and non-motorized traffic. The road would be about 38 km
shorter than the existing road and would provide adequate capacity along the
corridor until the year 2010, when the pavement would be widened to Class I
standard, dual four lanes; the 1991 estimated traffic in passenger car units
(PCUs) is given in Table 4.4. The new alignment passes through flat and hilly
terrain west of Poyang Lake and would cross the railway once and intersect
with other roads at 45 locations. All intersections would be grade separated;
six of these intersections would be interchanges and most of the remaining
would consist of small bridge or culvert under or over passes to serve local
and farm traffic. Two major bridges would be built at Tujiabu and De'an with
openings designed for 300-year floods; smaller bridges for 100-year floods
would be built at other locations. The area forms part of the Yangtze
geological platform. A 300-m fault zone north of De'an includes the
Miliangpu-Jiujiang seismic zone which is subject to potential seismic activity
of 7 degrees on the Richter scale, and the Yongxiu-Miliangpu seismic zone
which is subject to 4 degrees on the Richter scale. ,he main river system
flows to the Poyang Lake; floods are frequent and can be serious, depending on
the amount of rainfall and the water level in lake. As a result, hydrological
conditions are very complicated at the bridge sites in the flat low-lying
area. Construction materials of sand and good quality stone are readily
available along the alignment. Paras. 4.1-4.4 describe the transport corridor
which the new road serves.
3.6      The preliminary engineering and feasibility study for the highway was
prepared by JTPSDI with help from HPDI, the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Bureau,
the Jiangxi Provincial Highway Construction Unit, and the Transport Admini-
stration Division of the JPTD. The study has been reviewed by the Bank Group
and discussed in detail with the JPTD. The detailed design was done by the
Second Highway Survey and Design Institute of MOC in Wuhan, under terms of
reference approved by the Jiangxi Provincial Planning Commission   Denmark,
through its Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), financed the
services of Kampsax Consultants, A.G. (Denmark) to review the design and help
prepare the bid documents. The geometric design standards proposed for the
new highway are shown in Table 1.4 and are appropriate.
3.7      Constrdction of the Nanchang Bridge.  The existing two-lane, 1,077
meter long Bayi Bridge crossing the Gan River northwest of the Nanchang urban
area was built in 1937. Although it has been rehabilitated many times since
then, it is now classified a "dangerous bridge" following a detailed examina-
tion in 1985 by Tongji University staff. No vehicle exceeding 15 tons gross



- 18 -
weight is allowed simultaneously on each span and speeds cannot exceed 15 kph.
The capacity of the bridge is inadequate, its load bearing capacity is low,
and its clearance above the high-water level does not meet the requirements of
the navigation channel. Since Nanchang is the hub of north-south traffic in
Jiangxi province and beyond to Hunan, Hubei, Zhejiang and Fujian provinces,
the existing bridge is a serious impediment to economic growth in Nanchang
City and the province in general. Accordingly, the new Nanchang Bridge was
listed as a priority project in the 'Nanchang General Development Plan"
approved by the State Council in June 1985.
3.8      The new bridge would be built to the southwest of Nanchang City.
With its new approach roads and bridges, the new bridge would connect
Jinggangshan Road in the city over the Fu River, Chaoyang Island and Gan
River, to Changling town in Xinjian County (see Map 20289). From Jinggangshan
Road, a new 1.0-km roa(l would connect with Yanjiang Avenue on the western part
of the city ring road, then cross the Fu River to Chaoyang Island for a
distance of 2,400 m to the start of the main bridge. The main bridge across
the Gan River would consist of an east approach bridge of about 220 m, the
992-m main bridge across the Gan River and a west approach bridge of about 720
meters. All the bridges would be continuous prestressed concrete girders. A
626 m west approach road would then run to the terminus at Changling. The
total length of the new bridge, including bridge approaches, would be 1,932
meters. The main bridge spans and approach bridges would be double-deck with
six lanes on a 23 m upper deck for motorized vehicles, and two cantilevered
3.5 m carriageways for nonmotorized traffic and 2.5 m walkways for pede-
strians. The western approach road would have a width of 40 m providing a
21.0 m lane carriageway with two 1.0 m raised kerbs for motorized traffic, two
separate 4.0 m lanes for nonmotorized traffic and two 2 m lanes for pedestrian
walkways and two 2.5 m berms for shrubs and trees. The eastern elevated
approach road would have a width of 21.0 m for the motorized traffic, plus two
1.0 m raised kerbs. Capacity on the new bridge and approaches is estimated to
be adequate for the next 30 years.
3.9      The feasibilitv and preliminary engineering study for the new bridge
was done by the Nanchang Municipal Planning and Design Institute and has been
reviewed by Bank staff. The detailed design is being prepared by the Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Design Institute. The b.S. Federal Highway
Administration (FHWA) helped to carry out a review of the design and the
Danish Government through DANIDA financed consultants services for assistance
in preparation of bid documents.
3.10     Construction of Connecting Road between the Nanchang Bridge and the
Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway.  A six km road to class II standard wc"ld be con-
structed connecting then west end of Nanchang bridge at Changling county to
the starting of the Nanchang-Jiujiang highway at Jiaoqiao. The detailed
design is being prepared by the MOC's Second Highway Survey and Design
Institute at Wuhan.
3.11     Supervision of Construction.  Since contracting for civil works is
relatively new in Jiangxi, the province has little experience in supervising
road construction contracts. MOC and provincial engineers received some
training in supervisory work under the first Highway Project, but there is
still a shortage of experienced local engineers. To ensure that works on the
project road and bridge are carried out in full compliance with specifications



- 19 -
and that good quality control is exercised on site, a joint team of engineers
from JPTD, Nanchang municipality, and experienced foreign consultants would be
set up to supervise the works. The consultants would help establish the
systems and procedures for tne supervisory work and train the JPTD and
municipal engineers, both formally and on-the-job, to carry out the supervi-
sion of construction.
3.12     Road and Bridge Maintenance and Operation Equipment.  Road
maintenance equipment comprising graders, bulldozers, asphalt and cement con-
crete mixers, pavers, traffic counters, trucks, etc. would be provided under
the project to ensure the proper maintenance of the new highway. Similarly,
inspection and maintenance equipment would be provided for the new bridge.
The lists of equipment for the highway and bridge were agreed with JPTD and
NMG at negotiations.
3.13     Road Planning and Evaluation of Existing Road Pavements and Prepara-
tion of a Strengthening and Maintenance Management Program. The basic manage-
ment information needed to plan the development, design, construction and
maintenance of the road system in Jiangxi province is not available in a
readily accessible format. Under the project, a start would be made in sett-
ing up a computerized road data bank. The data bank would include a road
condition inventory comprising road lengths, type, classification, function,
geometrics, and pavement type, thickness and bearing capacity, as well as
traffic volumes, material sources and qualities, etc. A similar management
information system but dealing with city streets and motorized, nonmotorized
and pedestrian traffic is proposed to be set up in Nanchang City. In develop-
ing these data systems, JPTD and Nanchang municipality would receive expert
help and computer hardware and software under the project.
3.14     The recent large increases in road traffic have created problems
pertaining to the structural soundness of existing road pavements. Most of
these roads were designed in the 1950s, 1960s and early 1970s for a much lower
level of traffic. The pavements have now exceeded their design life and are
showing signs of distress. As a result, pavement maintenance costs are rising
rapidly. These road pavements are urgently in need of strengthening before
they are damaged beyond repair and require complete and costly reconstruction.
The JPTD proposes to carry out an evaluation of the existing road pavements in
order to determine their bearing capacity and residual life in relation to
present and estimated future traffic. A five-year strengthening program would
be prepared which would identify the resources of manpower, materials, equip-
ment and funds needed to implement the program.  The project would provide
expertise to train the JPTD staff in the methodology of pavement evaluation.
Terms of Reference for the Road Planning and Road Pavement Evaluation are
shown in Annex 2 and were agreed at negotiations. The Terms of Reference for
the Nanchang traffic management systems were finalized and agreed at negotia-
tions.
3.15     Staff Training.  In addition to training directly related to the
supervision and quality control of the new highway and bridge construction,
the training proposed in the project is designed to upgrade and modernize the
skills of technical staff in the various fields concerned with the highway
subsector. The program has a twofold approach, to:



- 20 -
(a)  improve the proficiency of engineers and other staff by sending
selected personnel abroad to attend academic and practical training
courses as well as relevant international conferences;
(b)  strengthen the capacity of JPTD's and municipality highway
institutes and transportation technical schools by:
(i) purchasing laboratory, computer and photogrammetry equipment,
training aids, and essential technical books and publications;
and
(ii) inviting foreign academic experts for short visits to help
upgrade curricula.
3.16     In continuing the program, about ten officials from JPTD and five
from Nanchang municipality would be trained abroad in the areas of transporta-
tion planning, soils and materials engineering, transport economics, financial
management and accounting, highway maintenance and equipment management, con-
struction management and supervision including quality control, new construc-
tion material technology, urban traffic management, and technical interpreta-
tion. It is expected that, on their return, the trainees would play a major
role in developing and managing the Jiangxi provincial road system and
Nanchang city traffic facilities and in transferring updated technology to
other highway staff. The scope and estimated costs of the training program to
be carried out under the project were agreed at negotiations.  Assurances were
obtained from the provincial government during negotiations that the training
will be carried out according to the program agreed with the Association.
3.17     Consulting Services.  A total of about 120 man-months of foreign
consulting expertise is expected to be needed under the p:oposed project.
Local expertise available in the various provincial institutes in the sector
would be used as much as possible, and foreign consulting help would be sought
only for those areas of advanced technology where local expertise is lacking.
These areas include the use of advanced instrumentation for measuring road
deflection and deterioration, the analysis of traffic -lows, transport econo-
mics and other very specialized fields. Road and bridge construction work
would be supervised by a team of local staff and experienced foreign consul-
tants. About 9 man-years of foreign consulting expertise is Pxpected to be
needed to provide the missing expertise and experience needed to form an
effective joint supe vision team and to help set up and implement the organi-
zational systems and procedures for effective quality control on site and to
train the JPTD and Nanchang municipal engineers in supervision. About 12 man-
months of foreign expertise is expected to be needed for preparing the road
data bank and the road pavement strengthen;.ng and maintenance management pro-
grams. Terms of reference for these services, as shown in Annexes 1 and 2,
were agreed during negotiations.
D. Cost Estimates
3.18     The project is estimated to cost Y 427.46 million, or US$109.0  mil-
lion equivalent, including physical and price contingencies and land acquisi-
tion costs. This includes a foreign exchange component of US$61.0 million,
or about 56? of the total cost. The project costs are shown below. All base



- 21 -
Project Cost Sunaurv
Credit as
Credit  Foreign   a   of
LocAl   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total   tUSs           Cost   total Cost
---iffaen Hlillion'-- -- -1               Iilim)n-            esillicl    I     1.
Nanchang- Jilullang Highwa
*SSSS.SS2..........aI*SC*8SSt
1. Construction of bAoCARQ-
Jiujang highqeay 1112Ll             67.91    93.00   150.il    10.3b    2;.43    40.79    22.43            55.0      39.5
2. Construction of b ke
connecti,.9 road                    lO.O   *0.00    20.00         2.71      2.71      5.42      2.71      50.0       4.0
3. Consultant sorsice fow
sapervision of construction          0.e0      2.46      2.46      0.00      0.66      0.66      0.66     100.0       1.2
4. Ilaintennace
equipent                             0.00      4.4v      4.40      0.00      1.20      1.20      1.20    100.0        2.1
5. Trainmng of
staft                                0.O0      2.60      2.sO      0.00      0.12      0.72      0.72    100.0        1.3
6. Equip. I mopetise for paeent
evailuation and road oata bank       v.00      1.BO      1.60      O.oe      0.40      0.49      0.49    100.0        0.9
total                        77.91   104.2.    182.17    21.07    20.20    49.27    28.20           57.2      49.6
PObsical Contengencies 1101)                7.80     10.42    19.22       2.11      2.82      4.73     2.82      57.2        5.0
Baseline fstisite                          M5.71    114.c8   200.39    23.1d    31.M 2    54.20    31.02         57.2      54.6
Price ContenQencius                        l.u2      13.48    23.50       1.16      1.49      2.65      1.49     56.2        2.6
Total                                  95.73   12.16   223.69    24.34    32.51    5b.85    32.51            57.2      57.2
Land acquisition cost                      21.17      0.00    21.17       5.72      O.vO      5.72     u.00        0.0
total- HifoaNu                            116.90   128.16   245.06    30.06    32.51    62.57    32.51           52.0
Nanchang Brndqe
1. Construction of bridne I approaches
,6ection It. Ill. IV and il         51.7i    88.01    139.71      13.97    23.80    37.77    23.80        o3.i      53.1
2. Consultaot servce for
sopervisn of construction             M.OO     2.. O     2.00      0.00      0.54      0.54      0.54    10s.O        1.2
3. maintenance
equiprent                            9.5      0.00      0.51      0.14      r.0O      0.14      M.Ut       0.0       0.0
4. 'raining of
staff                                s.0      0.46      0.46      0.0       e.12      0.12      0.12    100.0        V.,
5. Equo. & eipertase for urban
traffic and road data bank            M.mu     0.74      0.74      O.Mv      (.20      0.20      0.20    If.v         0.4
Total                        52.21    91.23   143.44    14.11    24.66    38.17    24.o6            br.b      55.1
Physical Contengencies  l1Ou                5.23      9.12    14.35       1.40     2.47      3.87      2.47      u3.B       5.5
Baseline estieate                          57.44   100.35   157.79    15.51    27.13    42.64    27.13           63.6      60.6
Price Conteqnacnaes                         e.73     11.70    19.51      0.78       1.i6     2.14      1.36      63.6       3.0
Total                                  64.17   112.13   17b.30    16.29    20.49    44.78    26.49            b3.6      63.6
Land acquisition cost                       6.10      o.oO      t.10      1.65     M.eu      l.u      e.vO        0.0
total- Bridqte              1.27   112.13   182.40    17.94    2M. 49  48.43    20.49                            01.4
an....   ..a....   asan      ...an...      a      325       SSS        S
fetal Froject Costs                       107.17   140.2q   427.46    48.00    61.0ee   109.00    61.v0
..... .        ....    .a.. sta             ......   ....
t 1: Excluding land acquisition cost.
Notes:
tI,; Exchange rate: USfl- f 3.70 .
Ott: All fiqarts are Pounded.
.3r: The base ctst is calculated by using Januarv 1988 orices.



- 22 -
costs are estimated in January 1988 prices. Physical contingencies are cal-
culated at 10% of base cost estimates and applied to all components. Price
contingencies have been calculated for both foreign and local costs. When
expressed in US dollars, the price contingency is based on expected
international annual inflation factors of 1.0Z from 1988 to 1990, and 3.5%
thereafter; (b) when expressed in Yuan, the calculation is based on expected
domestic inflation factors of 6.5Z p.a. from 1987 to 1990, and 4.5Z
thereafter. None of the cost estimates include taxes and duties since a'l
materials and equipment to be used in the project would be exempt from taxes
Pe.d duties.
3.19     The costs of civil works are based on work quantities calculated from
detailed designs and costed at unit prices. The unit prices for the work
items were computed based on MOC's standard manuals for labor and equipment
productivity and the related, annually-updated, costs combined with the cur-
rent costs of materials. The unit prices were checked against the unit prices
recently received in bids for major road works financed under the previous
highway projects.
3.20     The base cost per km of the two-lane Nanchang-Jiujiang road, exclud-
ing contingencies and land acquisition costs, is about US$360,000. This cost
is acceptable since it includes provisions for future expansion to four lanes.
The cost per km of the 6 km connecting road is about $900,000; this reflects
the cost of a 4 lane divided urban street and the associated higher costs of
land acquisition, removal of building and public utilities and is appropriate.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at about 55Z for foreign
contractors and about 50% for domestic contractors on the road works and at
about 63Z for foreign contractors and 53% for domestic contractors on the
bridge works.
3.21     The cost of equipment is based on prices quoted by manufacturers
outside China. Cost estimates for the pavement evaluation and computer equip-
ment are based on manufacturers' current prices and on the list of equipment
agreed at negotiation.
E. Financing
3.22     An IDA credit of SDR 44.7 million, US$61.0-million equivalent, would
finance the foreign costs or about 561 of the cost of the project. The
Government would provide about US$48.0 million to cover the remaining capital
costs. The on-lending terms would be for a period of 20 years, with 5 years
grace, at an interest rate of 4.6Z p.a. The firnancing plan for the project is
shown in the following table:



- 23 -
FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Jiangxi                            Bank
Province   NMG    JPTD    MOC    Group         Total
Highway construction               -      -        2.5   15.9     22.4       40.8
Connecting road construction       -     1.3       1.4     -        2.7       5.4
Bridge construction                -     8.6        -     5.4     23.8       37.8
Supervision                        -      -         -      -        1.2       1.2
Equipment                          -      -         -      -        2.0       2.0
Training                           -      -         -      -        0.8       0.8
Contingencies                      -      -        2.6    2.9       8.1      13.6
Land acquisition                  7.4     -         -      -         -        7.4
Total                       7.4    9.9       6.5   24.2      61.0      109.0
F. Implementation
3.23     JPTD would be responsible for implementing the Nanchang-Jiujiang
highway under unit-priced civil works contracts. MOC's Second Survey and
Design Institute in Wuhan has completed the detailed design and is now prepar-
ing the bid documents. Denmark, through its aid agency DANIDA has helped
review the design and prepare bid documents. The design standards, shown in
Table 1.4, are appropriate. The Nanchang Municipal Government would be
responsible for the construction of the new Nanchang bridge and the approach
roads and bridges in the Nanchang urban area. DANIDA has also provided
assistance through consultants' services to prepare bid documents and the U.S.
FHWA has provided experts for design review. The JPTD and Nanchang Municipa-
lity would jointly implement the 6 km road connectir,g the new bridge with the
new Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway. The JPTD and Nanchang municipality are fully
capable and have the institutional capacity to implement the project com-
ponents. Chart 2 shows the organization of the Nanchang Municipal Government.
The design and bid documents are being prepared by the Shanghai Municipal
Engineering Design Institute (SMEDI). The prequalification of contractors for
the new highway was completed in November 1988; prequalification of
contractors for the new bridge construction is underway. Procedures for
acquiring land for right of way have started; ground surveys are being conduc-
ted and agreements with the villages and production units will be finalized
before the start of construction. Construction of the highway and the
Nanchang Bridge would start in mid 1989 and be completed by mid 1992.
Construction of the 6 km connecting road would start in mid 1990 and be com-
pleted in mid 1992 at the same time as the Bridge and Highway. The highway
construction would be supervised by a joint team of consultants and JPTD
engineers; the Nanchang Bridge construction also would be supervised by a
joint team of consultants and Nanchang municipal engineers.
3.24     JPTD would be responsible for starting the Road Data Bank for the
highway network by mid-1989, and this work would be continuous thereafter.



- 24 -
Similarly, JPTD would start evaluating the existing road pavements in the
second half of 1989, after initially training local engineers in this work,
and a five-year pavement strengthening program should be ready for discussion
with the Bank Group by the end of 1991. Both JPTD and Nanchang municipality
would select candidates for training in mid-1989; training would continue over
the project period.
3.25     JPTD and Nanchang municipality would be responsible for selecting
consultants to set up the supervision and quality control of construction
contracts for the highway and bridge civil works and to train local engineers
in this work. The experts were expected to begin work on site in late 1988 in
order to help establish the supervisory organization and procedures and train
local engineers before construction starts. Their services would continue
over the construction period of both the highway and bridge contracts. Any
consultants required for preparing the Road Data Bank and evaluating existing
road pavements would be selected by JPTD as needed during the course of this
work. The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994. Credit
closing is expected by December 31, 1995.
3.26     An implementation schedule for the proposed project (Annex 3) was
agreed with the provincial government and Nanchang municipality during nego-
tiations.
G. Procurement
3.27     Procurement under the project would be carried out as shown in the
following table:
Procurement method        Total project
Project element                  ICB         LCB        Other         cost
- ------------ (US$ million) --------------
Highway civil works                  46.0         -          6.0          52.0
(25.4)                  (3.2)       (28.6)
Bridge contracts                     28.6         -         16.4          45.0
(18.0)                  (9.8)       (27.8)
Equipment                                         -          2.2           2.2
(2.2)        (2.2)
Training and consultants              -           -          2.4           2.4
-        (2.4)         (2.4)
Land acquisition                       -          -          7.4           7.4
Total                          74.6                   3".4         109.0
(43.4)                 (17.6)       (61.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the Bank
Group. All figures include estimate-' physical and price contingencies
and are rounded.



- 25 -
3.28     Construction of the highway (US$46.0 million) by two civil work con-
tracts and the bridge with approach bridges (US$28.6 million), also by two
civil work contracts, under the project will be carried out under interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) by prequalified firms in accordance with
Association's guidelines. The China National Machinery Import and Export
Corporation (CMC), in conjunction with JPTD and the Nanchang Municipal
Government, would organize the ICB. Other works, estimated to cost US$6.0
million for the road connecting the Nanchang Bridge to the Nanchang-Jiujiang
Highway, and US$16.4 million for the urban approach roads and bridges to the
new Bridge, would be built by the provincial and municipal construction teams,
under force account. Due to problems associated with heavy urban traffic,
removal of buildings, and removal and continuation of public utility services,
these wo;ks are not suitable for contracting and therefore must be done by
force account. The JPTD and Nanchang municipality construction bureau have
the experience and resources to do this work satisfactorily.
3.29     Equipment for pavement evaluation and computer hardware and software
(US$2.2 million) may be procured on the basis of a comparison of price quota-
tions solicited from at least three suppliers eligible under the Association's
Guidelines, and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
The CMC, in conjunction with JPTD, would be responsible for all equipment
procurement.
3.30     Under these ICB civil works contracts, qualifying domestic contrac-
tors would be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of bids of
7-1/22 for civil works, or the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower.
Since procurement by competitive bidding in the highway subsector is still
relatively new in China, all ICB contracts for civil works and equipment esti-
mated to cost more than US$500,000 would be subject to prior review and agree-
ment of procurement documentation by the Association.
3.31     Some consulting expertise will be needed in this project.  The local
expertise available in the various institutes in the subsector would be used
as much as possible; foreign consulting help will be sought only for those
areas of advanced technology where local expertise is lacking. All consul-
tants would be employed under the terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association and in accordance with Association's guidelines. All consultants
would be employed under Terms of Reference and Conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
H. Disbursements
3.32     The IDA credit would be disbursed to finance the following:
(a) 55Z of the total cost of the highway civil works;
(b) 632 of the total cost of the bridge civil works;
(c) 50? of the total cost of the civil works on the 6 km connecting road,
the 4 km approach roads and bridges to the new Nanchang Bridge and
the administration buildings and telecommunications facilities for
the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway;



- 26 -
(d) IOOZ of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment or 1002
of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment
and 75Z of local expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(e) 100% of the costs of consulting services and overseas training of
staff.
To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened with an initial
deposit of US$5.00 million, the estimated average expenditures for a four-
month period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable
to the Association. Applicacions for replenishment of the Special Account
would be submitted monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to
50Z of its initial deposit, whichever comes first. A schedule of estimated
disbursements is given in Table 3.4, which also shows the regional
transportation project's disbursement profile; disbursements under the
proposed project are estimated to generally follow the disbursement pattern of
the regional profile.
3.33     Disbursements would be made against priced contracts for civil works
on the proposed highway and bridge and against agreed priced bills of quanti-
ties for the force account civil works. Interim payments for civil works
completed and costed at unit rates in the contracts and bills of quantities
would be certified by the joint JPTD and NMG/Consulting supervisory team and
confirmed by the JPTD. Credit disbursements for training overseas would be
made against the actual costs of travel, subsistence and tuition or training
fees. Disbursements against statements of expenditure would be made for the
training component and for goods or services costing less than US$200,000.
Documents supporting the expenditure statements would not be submitted to the
Association, but instead would be retained by the JPTD in Nanchang and made
available for review by Association supervision missions.
I. Auditing, Reporting and Monitoring
3.34     A State Auditing Administration (SAA) was established to conduct
detailed audits of the government agency accounts and is acceptable to the
Association as an independent auditor. Assurances were obtained from the
provincial government and Nanchang Municipality during negotiations that the
accounts of project-related expenditures would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and that audit reports would be sent to
the Association for review within six months of the close of each Chinese
fiscal year. The Association currently accepts SAA audits for this purpose.
3.35     Progress reports on the project would be submitted quarterly to the
Association by MOC, based on the project monitoring indices shown in Annex 4.
A Project Completion Report would be prepared and submitted to the Association
no later than six months after the credit closing date.
J. Environmental Effects
3.36     The construction of the road and bridges under the project is not
expected to cause serious environmental problems.  There is very little danger
of soil erosion from road drainage since the area along the route is rela-
tively flat. The design and specifications require that temporary and



- 27 -
permanent culverts be provided for all irrigation and drainage canals to
ensure that farm activities are not disrupted. In many respects, the new road
and river bridge would improve the environment.  Alignment would be improved
through the use of grade-separated junctions and by separating faster-moving
vehicular traffic from the slower-moving bicycles, tractors and animal-drawn
carts.  This separation would reduce the existing congestion and improve road
safety. Congestion in or near cities and towns would be curtailed, substan-
tially reducing noise and air pollution.
3.37     The acquisition of land for construction projects is done under the
'Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State Construction' promulgated by
the State Council on May 14, 1982 and as further clarified by a document
entitled 'Elucidation of the Regulations on the Requisition of Land for State
Construction" issued by the State Planning Commission, the Ministry of
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery, and the Ministry of Urban and Rural
Construction and Environmental Protection on June 9, 1983. These regulations
spell out the procedures for acquiring land and the measures to be taken dur-
ing construction to protect the environment. Compensation for cultivated land
is based on the average annual output for three years before the land is
acquired, multiplied by the State price , the above-quota price (based on
actual proportion in the production unit), or a negotiated price for products
which have no fixed price. The settlement allowance per capita is two to
three times the average anLual output value per mu of land; it is based on the
average area of cultivated land occupied by each farmer. The total allowance
for cultivated land compensation and resettlement costs is stipulated not to
exceed twenty times the annual output value of the acquired land. Surplus
agricultural laborers are absorbed in other agricultural production units or
employed elsewhere in factories, etc. The regulations appear fair and equit-
able and are strictly enforced, with penalties set for Pay deviations.
3.38     Details of the land acquisition, demolition of buildings, removal of
telecommunications and power lines and the estimated number of persons to be
resettled are given in the table below:



- 28 -
A. Nanchang - Jiuliang Highway
Estimated
number of
persons to be
resettled
Land Acquisition
Rice Paddy                                 1,905 mu
Non-irrigated farmland                     1,16S mu
Vegetable plots                             172 mu
Pond areas                                  201 mu
Hill and wasteland                        2,098 mu
Total                                  5,632 mu                     1,200
Demolition of Buildings
Residential houses (398 families x 4)   16,700 sq m                  1,692
Earth-wall houses                       6,300 sq m
Total                               22.000 sq m
Relocation of Telecommunications
and Electrical Power Cable Poles
Telecommunication                         269 m
Electric Power                            284 m
Total 2I7g2
Estimated
number of
persons to be
resettled
B. Nanchang Bridge Land Acquisition
East Bank of Can River                       147 mu
West Sank of Can River                       121 mu                       424
Demolition of Buildings
Timber     Composite
Type of     Brick-timber  sheeting    brick cons.   Frame      Other
building       structure   dwellings  truction    structure structure  Totals
________    ------ __-- ____-------    m2  ----------------------------------------
City houses       8,288        1,460       1,288                           9,004      462
Farm houses        1,626        679        2,877                  181      6,143      184
State or collec-
tive owned     20,933       4,402       12,774        176      1,846   40,131    2,500
Buildings
Total                                                                   54,278    3,660
Notes:  mu = 667 sq m.



- 29 -
3.39     The local government of Nanchang Municipality, Xianjian, Yongxiu and
De'an counties and Jiujiang city would be fully responsible for the land
acquisition and for the resettlement of families affected by the project.
Resettlement would be near original villages outside the right of way of the
proposed project. The removal and resettlement of households, farmers,
workers, etc. would be phased with the highway and the bridge construction
schedule. To minimize interruptions to farm production and consequent econo-
mic losses, the land needed for the highway would be acquired and taken over
prior to actual construction activities on the site in accordance with highway
construction schedule. At negotiation assurances were obtained from Jiangxi
Province that resettlement would be carried out according to a plan agreed at
negotiations. A detailed report on the environmental impact of the project
and resettlement plan is available in the project file.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.1      The new Nanchang-Jiujiang highway would provide the shortest link
between the provincial capital, Nanchang, and the inland water port city of
Jiujiang on the Changjiang River. Nanchang and Jiujiang are the most heavily
populated and economically active areas of Jiangxi province. Fourteen percent
of the provincial population lives along the Nanchang-Jiujiang corridor and
produces about 272 of the provincial gross output value of agriculture and
industry (Table 4.1). Furthermore, the section of corridor 'Leading to
Jiujiang, which is located on the border of Jiangxi and closest to Anhui and
Hubei provinces, would provide an important and convenient land-link between
Jiangxi and its northern neighbors of Hubei and Anhui. In the past, transport
into and out of Jiangxi province has relied either on the Shanghai-Nanchang
railways or the Shanghai-Jiujiang waterway. A new Changjiang bridge is now
being constructed which will connect Anhui province to Jiangxi province
through Jiujiang. After the bridge is completed it is expected to generate a
large increase in traffic on the Nanchang-Jiujiang corridor. The Changjiang
bridge and new highway would then become a major north-south national highway
linking Hubei and Anhui provinces to Jiangxi and to Hunan and Fujian pro-
vinces. Accordingly, the Nanchang-Jiujiang highway would serve one of the
most important transport corridors and would stimulate the economic growth of
Jiangxi province.
4.2      The new Nanchang Bridge would connect to the southern end of the
proposed Nanchang-Jiujiang Higaway and run across the Gan River--the second
largest tributory of Changjiang. The bridge would provide the shortest north-
south link in Jiangxi province, bypassing the already congested Nanchang City.
At present there are two bridges--one road and one road/rail--that cross the
Gan River: Bayi and Ganjiang. Both are too old and were not designed to
accommodate the volume of traffic associated with the rapidly growing urban
areas, let alone the inter-provincial through traffic (para. 3.7). The
investment in the Nanchang Bridge would greatly enhance the benefits from the
proposed Nanchang-Jiujiang highway. By completing the north-south road link,
traffic could bypass Nanchang City.



- 30 -
A. Transport in the Existing Nanchang-Jiujiang Corridor
4.3      The major transport infrastructure serving the corridor consists of a
151-km road and a 135-km railway. Most of the existing road sections are
built to class IV standards, and about one-third of the road sections that are
closer to large towns are built to Class III standards. The road begins at
the northern part of Nanchang City, extends to Lehuo town, makes a long detour
westward to Xujiapu town, turns north to Yunshan, Qiujin, Dian, Aikou, and
Tongyuan, and terminates at the city of Jiujiang. The traffic count on the
five sections of the road in 1986 (Table 4.2) showed that traffic volume then
already exceeded the maximum design capacity for each section of the road.
MOC's highway capacity design standard is 500 vpd on Class IV and 2,000 vpd on
Class III standard roads. However, existing traffic in 1986 ranged from 1,000
to 4,000 vpd, and congestion has become a serious problem.
4.4      The 135-km single track railway line connects Nanchang to Jiujiang.
However, it is built to low technical standards and does not provide any
interprovincial connection beyond Jiujiang. Therefore, a railway could not
serve as through land transport to the northern neighbor of Jiangxi, although
the new highway would. Railway traffic between Nanchang and Jiujiang reached
2.05 million tons of freight and 1.03 million passenger-trips in 1987. All
railway freight traffic on this section was through traffic because the rail-
way authority does not allow any loading or unloading of freight in between
the two cities. Forty percent of railway freight traffic comes from coal, 25Z
from construction materials including steel and timber, 30Z from break-bulk
consumer products, 3Z from chemical fertilizer, and 2Z from grain. Though the
railway does not currently operate at full capacity, a small percentage of
traffic would be diverted from it to the new road because the road would be 23
km shorter than the railway; some less-than-car load (LCL) freight traffic
(especially break-bulk traffic) would also shift to the new road in later
years when the railway is utilized to its full capacity. The rail-line beyond
Jiujiang could not be extended until the Changjiang bridge of Jiujiang was
completed as a railway bridge. The issue of the Changjiang railway bridge is
still being disputed in the Ministry of Railway and cannot be resolved in the
very near future.
B. Traffic on the Existing Roads Without the Project
4.5      Road traffic in Jiangxi Province has grown very rapidly since 1980;
this growth has been particularly acute on the Nanchang-Jiujiang corridor. On
average, road freight traffic in the province grew by 11Z p.a. between 1980
and 1987, and passenger traffic grew by 18Z. The civilian vehicle fleet
increased by 7Z a year for trucks and 13Z a year for buses during the same
period. Meanwhile, road traffic on the Nanchang-Jiujiang corridor is increas-
ing at a more rapid rate. According to the statistics compiled by five of the
JPTD's traffic count stations along this corridor, road traffic grew at an
average rate of 15-282 a year between 1982 and 1985. Heavy truck traffic grew
most rapidly--at over 25Z a year. Trucks constituted 56 to 68Z of the total
traffic of the various sections in 1986.
4.6      The high proportion of trucks combined with the many non-motorized
and slow-moving vehicles creates serious congestion on this low standard Class
IV road. Because of this congestion and the many at-grade intersections with



- 31 -
railways and local roads, travel speeds on some sections of the road are only
15-20 kph. The number of road accidents also is increasing rapidly. The
origin-destination (O-D) traffic surveys carried out by JPTD in 1986 at
Jiaoqiao, Wangjiapu, Yunshan, Aikou, and Hogdeng show that traffic was
particularly heavy at the exit of Nanchang on the section between Jiaoqiao and
Shangwu (3,808 vpd). The traffic volume on the rest of the sections was
fairly evenly distributed, between 1,000 to 1,500 vpd (Table 4.2). Assuming
growth rates of 6? for small trucks, 10-122 for medium to large trucks, and
12-142 for passenger buses, traffic in the corridor would reach 7,000 vpd in
1992 and 17,000 vpd in the year 2,000. Given this traffic forecast and the
current and expected economic activity in the influence area of the road
(paras 4.1-4.4), it is clear t'at additional road capacity is needed now.
C. Projected Traffic on the New Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
4.7      The projected traffic on the new highway would come from three main
sources: (a) traffic diverted from the existing road; (b) traffic diverted
from the railway; and (c) traffic generated by the improved road capacity and
travel speed.
4.8      Traffic Diverted from the Existing Road.  According to the O-D sur-
veys conducted in 1986, most (over 70?) of the motorized traffic on the exist-
ing road is through traffic, except for the section between Jiaoqiao and
Shangwu. There only 30? of traffic would be beyond Shangwu. Because the new
highway would be shorter than the old one and would have a superior riding
quality, all through-traffic would shift to the new road. Therefore, the
estimated traffic that would divert to the new highway in 1992, the opening
year, would be about 4,200 vpd on the sections between Jiaoqiao and Aicheng,
and about 1,600-1,700 vpd on the sections between Aicheng to Jiujiang. By the
year 2,000, diverted traffic on the new highway would range between about
3,700 and 10,000 vpd (Table 4.3).
4.9      Traffic Diverted from Railway.  Although the new highway linking
Nanchang to Jiujiang would be 23 km shorter than the railway, no significant
diversion of railway freight traffic to the new highway is expected in the
early years. First there is still excess capacity on the railway. Second,
652 of the freight traffic on the railway comes from coal and construction
materials (para. 4.4), and for these commodities railway transport has a com-
parative cost advantage. On the other hand, 50? of the rail passenger traffic
is expected to move to the new highway because of the larger savings in dis-
tance and time. This available rail capacity would be fully used by 1995 when
the railway capacity would be saturated. Therefore, after 1995, the railway
LCL and other break-bulk freight traffic would start moving to the new
highway.
4.10     Newly Generated Traffic.  With a higher standard road, improved pave-
ment widths and geometrics, and increased capacity, travel speeds would be
increased and travel time reduced on both the new and existing road. The
congestion and the number of accidents on the existing road would be substan-
tially reduced. As travel time is reduced, more trips would be undertaken
with the same vehicles, so these improved road transport conditions would
generate traffic beyond the normal growth rate. An increase of about 10? to



- 32 -
202 of normal traffic is expected to be generated as a result of improved
roads, adding about 250-700 vpd in 1992.
4.11     The total traffic expected on the new road in 1992 would be about
2,000-5,000 vpd. With the high proportion of trucks, the equivalent
passenger-car units (PCUs) would be about 14,000 per day on the Jiaoqiao-
Aicheng section and 5,000 PCUs on the rest (Table 4.4). The separation of
fast and slow moving traffic would be required between the Jiaoqiao-Aicheng
section to facilitate the smoother flow of traffic on this section.
D. Economic Evaluation of Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
4.12     Economic Costs.  All input and output elements for qvaluating the
costs and benefits of the new highway were obtained using January 1988 finan-
cial costs and applying conversion factors to reflect their economic costs
(Table 4.5). These conversion factors have taken into account a shadow
exchange rate, which is higher than the official rate. For traded goods, the
c.i.f. prices of imports and f.o.b. prices of exports were used to estimate
the cost of materials and equipment, making adjustments for the cost of inland
transportation. The adjusted economic cost of the project is Y 212.5 million.
The road requires routine maintenance every year and periodic maintenance or
repaving every ten years. The routine maintenance cost is estimated at
Y 1,000/km for a two-lane road. Periodic maintenance is estimated to be 10Z
of the construction cost.
4.13     Economic Benefits.  The principal benefits of the new highway would
take the form of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC). Of the Y 37.0
million in total benefits in 1992, the opening year, 88? would accrue from the
VOC savings of normal traffic, including traffic remaining on the existing
roads as well as that diverted from the old road to the new road. This
savings would result from the shorter distance and improved riding quality of
the new road, and reduced congestion on existing roads. The remaining 12?
savings is attributed to: 102 for newly generated traffic. 1? for traffic
diverted from railways (this benefit is expected to increase to 22-3Z in later
years when more railway traffic diverted to new road), and 12 for accident
reduction. The estimate of benefits is based on the anticipated volume of
traffic (Table 4.3) and the VOCs estimated for different types of vehicles on
the different roads. Detailed estimates are available in the project file.
The benefits would build up rapidly after the project was completed, since the
existing transport corridor is now very congested. Benefits have been assumed
to be constant after the year 2012, when project facilities would be used to
their full capacity.
E. Overall Evaluation and Sensitivity Analysis of the New Highway
4.14     Comparing benefits to costs yields an economic rate of return (ERR)
of approximately 30% (Table 4.6). The main risk would be the delayed benefits
and possible cost increases associated with delays in completing the highway.
The project would deal with this risk by providing early assistance in pro-
curement and training of supervisory construction engineers. The sensitivity
analysis below shows that the project still would remain viable even if costs
exceeded estimates by 20? or if net benefits were 20? lower, or even if both
occurred. The benefits from other relatively small investments in staff
training, studies and improved road planning are not quantifiable. However,
the present lack of planning personnel, lack of exposure to new technology,
and absence of reliable data and data collection systems for road planning all
suggest that such investments would have very high rates of return.



- 33 -
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Jiaoqiao   Aicheng-    De'an    Tong Yuan  Project
Aicheng     De'an    Tong Yuan  Jiujiang    Total
Best Estimates                 33.6      31.5         30.0       21.9       30.1
Sensitivity Analysis
- 202 cost increase           30.6      28.4         27.2       19.9      27.3
- 20Z benefit reduction       29.9      27.7         26.6       19.4      26.7
- 202 cost increase and
- 20X reduction of benefit   27.2       25.1         24.1       17.5      24.2
P. Economic Evaluation of the Nanchang Bridge
4.15     The Existing Bridges.  Bayi road bridge and the Ganjiang road/rail
bridge are the two existing bridges that cross the Gan River and serve as the
northern entrance to the city of Nanchang. Besides being old and substandard
(para 3.7), the two bridges connect to the two main avenues of the city Bayi
and Hongdu--channelling all through north-south traffic into the city. Large,
through traffic trucks cause unnec-3seary congestion on the city roads, create
pollution problems and induce more accidents.
4.16     Traffic on the Existing Bridges Without the Project.  Statistics
compiled by the Nanchang Municipal and Rural Construction Bureau (NMRCB) show
that traffic on the two existing bridges grew at 11Z p.a. between 1981-1987.
In March 1987, NMRCB organized an intensive traffic count (24-hour count for
three consecutive days) and origin-destination traffic surveys on the two
bridges. This provided a more accurate picture of the composition and flow of
traffic on the bridges. The surveys show that trucks made up about 42Z of the
12,400 vpd on Bayi Bridge, and about 912 of the 3,600 vpd on the Ganjiang
Bridge (Table 4.7). This very high proportion of trucks combined with the
high volume of non-motorized and slow-moving traffic creates serious conges-
tion on the bridges. The congestion now is so bad that the average normal
travel speed on the bridges is only 15 kph; when major accidents occur on the
less than 1,100 meter stretch of bridges, traffic can be held up for over two
hours. Motorized traffic on the two bridges has now grown to 16,000 vpd; 77?
of it is on Bayi Bridge. Assuming growth rates of 42 for small buses and
10-12X for medium and large trucks and buses, traffic would reach 25,600 vpd
by 1992 and 55,500 by the 2000 (Table 4.7), over half of which would come from
trucks. In addition to this normal growth of traffic, more interprovincial
traffic could be expected after the proposed Nanchang-Jiujiang highway and
Changjiang Bridge at Jiujiang are completed. Even overlooking the problem of
urban congestion and pollution, this growth in traffic would overwhelm the
capacity of the two existing bridges. Therefore new bridge capacity is
urgently needed.



- 34 -
4.17     The Proposed Nanchang Bridge.  Through traffic bypassing Nanchang
City would save 3-14 km distance by using the new bridge. Though the proposed
bridge and approaches are 700-850 m. longer than the existing bridges, the
total travel length would be 3-14 km shorter for inter-urban traffic.  Start-
ing from Qingyunpu in the southern most part of Nanchang City, drivers would
have three alternatives: (i) go into the city using the eastern avenue of the
city (Hongdu Avenue) across Ganjiang Bridge to Changling (23 km); (ii) go into
the city using the Bayi Avenue right in the center of the city across Bayi
Bridge to Changling (12 km); or (iii) bypass the city center by using the
Yanjiang Road along the Gan River across the proposed Nanchang Bridge to
Changling (9 km).
4.18     Projected Traffic on the Nanchang Bridge.  The projected traffic on
the new bridge would come miinly from: (i) traffic diverted from the two
existing bridges; and (ii) traffic generated by the improved road capacity and
travel speed.
(i) Traffic diverted from the existing bridges. The 0-D surveys
conducted in March 1987 cenclude that about 70Z of the urban traffic that
crosses the Gan River would divert to the new bridge. Of this estimate, 65?
of the existing traffic on Bayi Bridge and 802 of traffic on Ganjiang Bridge
would divert to the new bridge. Therefore, the total diversion to the new
bridge in 1992, the .pening year, would be about 25,600 vpd. By the year
2000, diverted traffic on the new bridge would reach 55,500 vpd (Table 4.8).
(ii) Generated Traffic. The new bridge would be of high standard,
provide for a pavement width for six-lane traffic, improved geometrics and
increased capacity. Travel speeds on the new bridge would be about 60 kph.
Congestion on existing bridges also would be reduced and travel speeds could
increase to 35 kph. As speeds are increased and travel time is reduced, more
trips would be undertaken with the same vehicles, so the improved road trans-
port conditions would generate traffic beyond the normal growth rate. An
increase of about 10% to 20% of normal traffic is expected to be generated as
a result of improved reads, adding another 3,000 vpd in 1992 (Table 4.8).
4.19     The total traffic expected on the new road in 1992 would be about
25,600 vpd. With the high proportion of trucks, the equivalent passenger-car-
units (PCUs) would be about 50,000 per day. The forecast traffic by 2,000
would be equivalent to 100,000 PCUs. Therefore, a six-lane divided bridge
would be needed (Table 4.9).
4.20     Economic Evaluation.  The same method of economic cost-benefit
analysis used for the Nanchang-Jiujiang highway (paras. 4.11-4.12) was applied
here:
(i) Economic costs: All input and output elements for evaluating
the costs and benefits of the new highway were obtained using January 1988
financial costs and applying conversion factors to reflect their economic
costs (Table 4.5). The adjusted economic cost of the project is Y 179.0 mil-
lion. The bridge requires routine maintenance every year and periodic main-
tenance or repaving every ten years. The routine maintenance cost is
estimated at Y 3,000/km. Periodic maintenance is estimated to be 10% of the
construction cost.



- 35 -
(ii) Economic benefits. The principal benefits of the new bridge
would take the form of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC). Of the
Y 50.0 million in total benefits in 1992, the opening year, 882 would accrue
from the VOC savings of normal traffic. These savings would result from the
shorter distance, improved riding quality of the new road, and reduced
congestion on existing roads. The remaining 12% savings is attributed to: 10%
for newly generated traffic, and 22 for accident reduction. The estimate of
benefits is based on the anticipated traffic volume (Table 4.8) and the esti-
mate of VOCs for different types of vehicles on (the higher standard bridge.)
Detailed estimates are available in the project file. The benefits would
build up rapidly after the project is completed since the existing transport
corridor is now very congested. Benefits have been assumed to be constant
after the year 2012, when project facilities would be used to their full capa-
city.
(iii) Overall evaluation and rlsks. Comparing benefits to cost
yields an economic rate of return (ERR) of approximately 38Z (Table 4.10).
The rate of return is high considering that the additional benefits from
reduced congestion on city streets are not included. These benefits cannot be
quantified now due to the absence of data on city traffic. The sensitivity
analysis below shows that the project still remains viable even if costs
exceeded estimates by 202 or if net benefits were 202 lower or even with a
combination of the two.
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN - SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
(ERR (Z)
Nanchang Bridge
Best Estimates                                                 37.9
Risk Analysis
- 202 cost increase                                            34.4
- 20% benefit reduction                                        33.6
- 20% cost increase and 201 reduction of benefit               30.5
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1      During negotiations, agreement were reached with the Jiangxi Province
ont
(a) a Road Safety Program for Jiangxi Province (para 2.18);
(b) the list of equipment to be financed under the project (para 3.12);
(c) the terms of reference for the evaluation of existing road pavements
and the preparation of a strengthening and maintenance management
program and for the preparation of a road data bank (para 3.14);



- 36 -
(d) an implementation schedule for the training program for staff of JPTD
and the Nancheng Municlpal and Rural Construction Bureau (para 3.16);
(e) the terms of reference for consulting services to supervise
construction (para 3.17); and
(f) a project implementation schedule (para 3.26).
5.2      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Provincial
Government that:
(a) the training would be carried out according to a program agreed with
the Association (para. 3.16);
(b) the audited accounts of project-related expenditures prepared by the
State Auditing Administration would be sent to the Association for
review within six months of the close of each Chinese fiscal year
(pata 3.34); and
(c) the resettlement of populations in the area affected by the project
would be is carried out according to a plan acceptable to the
Association (para 3.39).
5.3      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be that the State
Council has approved the Development Credit Agreement.
5.4      Subject to the foregoing, the proposed project would be suitable for
an IDA credit of SDR 44.7 million (US$61.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, with 35 years maturity.



CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Investment In the Transport Sectur (Including Posts and Telecommunications)
(Y billion)
Ist tiP   2nd FYP                3rd FYI   4th FYP   5th FYP
1953-57   1958-62   1963-65   1966-71,  1971-75   1976-80   1980    1981    1982    L983    1984    1985   t986
Railway                                   5.916    10.416       3.395    11.250    17.308         4.047    3.044   1.445   2.637   4.221   5.852           7.7    8.5
Highway                                        -          -          -          -          -          -    1.086   0.799   0.887   0.722   1.196           2.3    2.7
Waterway                                       -          -          -          -          -          -    1.391   1.295   1.545   1.937   2.629           3.7    3.7
Aviation                                       -          -          -          -          -          -    0.275   0.070   0.145   0.299   0.263           2.1     1.3
Pipeline                                      -           -          -          -          -          -    0.054   0.018   0.017   0.006   0.010           0.1    0.5
Subtotal                                                                                              5.850   1.627   5.231   7.185   9.950    15.9   16.7
Post and telecommunications                   -          -           -          -          -          -    0.384   0.420   0.490   0.619   0.896           1.2    1.3
Total                                9.015    16.330       5.378    15.001    31.759    30.245    6.234   4.047   5.721   7.804  10.846    17.1   18.0
Total Capital Investment           58.847   120.609    42.189    97.603   176.395   234.217   55.889  44.291  55.553  59.413  74.315   107.4  117.6
Transport and telecommunications
as Z of total investment                15.3%      13.5Z      12.7%      15.4%       18.0%      12.9Z    11.2X    9.1%   10.3Z   13.1%   14.6%    16.0%  15.3Z
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China.



-38 -                                 Table 1.2
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Freight Traffic
(billion ton-km)
Domestic      Pipe-     Civil                  Ocean
Year                  Rail    Road/a  waterway /b   lines    aviation         Total   shipping
1952                  60.2       1.4        11.8          -          -         73.4        2.8
Modal split
(Z)                (82)       (2)       (15)            -          -       (100)          -
1977                 456.8      25.1       102.1       38.7         0.1       622.8      174.1
Modal split
(M)                (73)       (4)       (17)         (6)           -       (100)
1979                 559.8      74.5       139.0       47.6         0.1       821.0      317.4
1980                 571.7      76.4       152.3       49.1         0.1       849.6      353.2
1981                 571.2      78.0       150.1       49.9         0.2       850.0      364.3
1982                 612.0      94.9       170.8       50.1         0.2       928.0      376.9
1983                 664.6    108.4        181.1       52.4         0.2    1,006.1       397.7
1984                 724 7    153.6        196.1       57X1         0.3    1.132.0       437.4
1985                 812.5    177.0       225.5        60.3         0.4    1,275.7       532.9
1986                 876.5    195.8        248.9       61.2         0.5    1,382.9       594.8
Modal split
(X)                (63)      (14)       (18)         (5)           -       (100)
Growth rate
2 p.a.
1952-77             8.4      12.2        9.0          -           -          8.9       17.9
1983-84             9.1     41.7         8.3         9.0          -         12.5       10.0
1984-85            12.1      15.2       15.0         7.2          -         12.7       21.8
1985-86             7.9      10.6       10.4         1.5          -          8.4       11.6
1980-86             7.4     17.0         8.5         3.7          -          8.5        9.1
/a  From 1979 includes all road transport, not just that completed by road transport
departments.  These data exclude transport by traditional means, which is sizeable in
term of tonnage but take place mostly along short distances.
/b  Excludes ocean-going transport which is often included in Chinese statistics.  In
1979, coastal shipping accounted for 85 billion tkm and inland waterways for 54
billion tkm. The figures for 1982 were, respectively, 106 and 65 billion tkm.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China.



- 39 -                             Table 1.3
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Passenger Traffic
(billion passenger-kmn)
Year                          Rail       Road    Waterway   Aviation            Total
1952                          20.1        2.3           2.5         -            24.9
Modal split
(M)                        (81)        (9)         (10)           -         (100)
1977                         102.5       44.8           9.8        1.8          158.7
Modal split
(%)                        (64)       (28)           (7)        (1)         (100)
1979                         121.6       60.3          11.4        3.5          196.8
1980                         138.3       72.9          12.9        4.0         228.1
1981                         147.3       83.9          12.9        5.0         250.0
1982                         157.5       96.4          14.5        6.0         274.4
1983                         177.6      110.6          15.4        5.9         309.5
1984                         204.6      133.7          15.4        8.4         362.0
1985                         241.6      157.3          17.4       11.7         428.0
1986                         258.7      168.6          17.1       14.6         459.0
Modal split
Mv)                        (56)       (37)          (4)         (3)         (100)
Growth rate
% p.a.
1952-77                     6.7       12.6          5.6          -            7.7
1983-84                    15.2       21.0           -        42.4           17.0
1984-85                    18.1       15.4         11.7       40.0           17.3
1985-86                     7.1        7.2         -1.7       24.8            7.2
1980-86                    11.0       15.0          4.8       24.1           12.3
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China.



CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Highway Design Standards
Expressway           Class 1              Class 2             Class 3             Class 4
Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-    Plain-   Hilly-
hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain   hilly   mountain
area    area        area    area        area    area         area    area        arca    area
Number of vehicles
accommodated           ---->25,000-----   --5,000-25,000---   --2,000-5,000---    ----->2,000-----   -- -->200-------
Designed travel
speed (km/hr)             120      80         100       60         80       40          60       30         40       20        o
Surface width (m)        2x7.5   2x7.0        2x7.5   2x7.0           9        7           7        6     3.5         3.5
Subgrade width (m)           26      23          23       19          12     8.5         8.5      7.5     -------6.5-------
Minimum radius of hori-
zontal curves (m)        650      250         400      125        250       60         125       30         60       15
Maximum gradient (%)          3       5           4        6           5       7           6        8           6       9
Minimum passing sight
distance (m)              210     110         160       75        110       40          75       30         40       20
Nonsuperelevated
radius of hori-
zontal curve (m)       5,500   2,500        4,000   1,500       2,500      600       1,500     350         600      150
Source:  Technical Standard on Road Engineering, Highway Bureau, MinisEry of Communications, Beijing, 1981.



- 41 -                        Table 1.5
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Motor Vehicles Manufactured and Imported, 1980-86
('000)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985       1986
Domestic Production
Total vehicles             222.3    175.6    196.2    239.8    316.4    437.2          369.8
of which trucks          135.5    108.3    121.8    137.1    181.8    269.0          229.1
as % of total            (61.0)   (62.0)   (57.0)   (57.2)   (57.4)   (61.5)    (62.0)
Imports
Cars                          -        1.4       1.1       5.8     21.6    105.8
Trucks                      22.0      20.8       7.7      8.4      28.0    111.5
Dump trucks                   -        1.5       1.1      2.3       4.8      10.7
Chassis with engines          -        0.3       0.4      0.9       2.1       2.6
Others                        -       17.6       5.8      7.6      92.2    123.4
Total                        41.6      16.1      25.1    148.7    354.0
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1982-87.



- 42 -                            Table 1.6
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
China: Total Freight Transport Handled by Public
and Social Trucks
Freight volume           Freight density      Average distance
(million tons)          (billion ton-km)             (km)
Public  Social               Public    Social      Public    Social
Year          truck    truck    Total    truck         truck      truck       truck
1978            852    2,406    3,258       27.4       44.6        32.1       18.5
1979            816    2,748    3,564       26.8       47.7        32.8       17.4
1980            760    2,060    2,820       25.5       50.9        33.5      24.7
1981            715    2,922    3,637       25.3       52.7        35.4      18.0
1982            788    3,004    3,792       30.3       64.6        38.4      21.5
1983            791    3,219    4,010       33.5       74.9        42.3      23.3
1984            789    4,545    5,334       35.4      118.2        44.9      26.0
1985            762    4,987    5,749       35.5      141.5        46.6      28.4
1986            785                         36.9      158.9        47.0
Source:  Statistical Yearbooks of China, 1980-87.



Table 2.1
CBINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Jiangxi: Demographic and Transport Network Data, 1986
Popula-                  Per capita      Road       Transport network density (km/OOO km2)
tion         Area       GOVAI /a      length                                Navigable in-
(million)    (O000 km2)       (Y)      ('000 km)        Road       Railway    land waterway
Country Total                   1,057.2        9,600        1,438.4        962.8        100.3         5.5            11.4
Xizang autonomous
region /b                       2.0        1,200          581.0         21.7         18.1          -               -
Jiangsu province /c              62.7          100        2,500.6         23.1        231.0         7.1           236.5
Shandong province /d             77.7          150        1,471.0         37.0        246.6        13.6            15.8
Sichuan province /d             103.2          560          908.5         91.5        163.4         5.1            14.3
Shaanxi province                 30.4          190        1,008.0         37.7        198.4         9.8             3.6
Jiangxi province                 35.1          160          964.5         31.9        199.4         9.2            30.9
/a  Gross Output Value of Agriculture and Industry.
/b  The poorest province in China in terms of GOVAI.
/c  The richest province in China in terms of GOVAI.
/d  Shandong province has the fifth largest road network in China in terms of road density (km/000 km2, Beijing,
Shanghai and Tienjin municipalities are excluded); Sichuan province has the largest road network in terms of total
length of the network.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1987.



44                              Table 2.2
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Jiangxi: Vehicle Fleet, 1985
('000)
Trucks /a    Passenger bus                Transport facilities
No. of trucks  No. of buses    Transport
Gov't  Social  Gov't  Social  per km road           per  000   tractor per km.
km                       trucks trucks   bus    bus           network            pop.    of road network
Country Total            194.1  2,497.0  83.1   813.3           2.9           0.86         3.2
Xizang autonomous
region /b              2.7      13.6   0.2       3.0        0.7           1.60        0.2
Jiangsu province /c    8.8        96.4   5.5    42.3          4.7           0.77        0.8
Shandong province       i5.3    153.0   3.8    48.0           4.6           0.67        9.0
Sichuan province        17.6    132.3   8.9    35.3           1.9           0.52        0.7
Shaanxi province         5.7      64.6   2.2    22.5          1.9           0.82        9.4
Jiangri.i pcuvirice      3.7      60.6   3.1    17.7          2.0           0.60        0.9
/a  Freight trailers excluded.
/b  The poorest province in China.
/c  The richest province in China.
Sources: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1986.
Statistical Yearbooks ofJiangxi, Shandong and Shaanxi Provinces, 1986
Statistical Yearbook of Sichuan Province, 1987.



- 45 -                                Table 2.3
CHINA
.JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Jiangxi: Freight Handled by Public and Social Trucks, 1985
Freight volume            Freight density    Average distance
(million tons)           (billion ton-km)             (km)
Own                             Own                   Own
Public   account               Public    account    Public    account
truck     truck      Total    truck       truck      truck      truck
Country Total               762.2    4,987    5,749         35.5    141.5          46.6      28.4
Xizang autonomous
region /a                   0.4         -         -        0.3        -        750.0        -
Jiangsu Province /b          48.0        166      214        2.0        -         41.7         -
Shandong Province            45.9        81       127        3.1       3.0        67.4      37.0
Sichuan Province             44.5       443       487        2.7      34.2        60.7      39.9
Shaanxi Province             16.8         29       46        0.8       1.2        47.6      40.9
Jiangxi Province             12.6         74       87        0.7       3.7        55.6      49.7
/a The poorest province in China.
/b The richest province in China.
Sources: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1986
Statistical Yearbook of Jiangxi, Shandong, and Shaanxi Provinces, 1986
Statistical Yearbook of Sichuan Province, 1987



- 46 -                                     Table 2.4
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Jiangxi: Capital Construction Investment in Transport Sector, 1986
Total capital                        Per-capita capital
construction investment                construction investment
Rail-  High   Water  Avia-             Rail-  High   Water  Avia-
Total   way   way       way   tion   Total    way   way         way   tion
-------- (Y 100 million) --------  --------------- (Y) ---------------
Country Total        167.3   84.7   26.8   36.8   13.5    15.8    8.0    2.5    3.5    1.
Xizang autono-
mous region /a       0.72    -      0.40    -       0.32   36.0      -    20.0       -    16.0
Jiangsu
province /b         6.0    1.3    1.0    3.4    0.1         9.6    2.1    1.6    5.4    0.1
Shandong
province            8.4    3.3    0.4    3.1    0.2    10.8    4.2    0.5    3.9    0.2
Sichuan
province            4.1    0.7    1.7    0.7    1.1         4.0    0.7    1.6    0.7    1.1
Shaanxi
province             1.8    0.9    0.5       -     0.4      5.9      -      1.6     -      1.3
Jiangxi
province             1.4    0.01   1.1    0.3       -       4.0    0.03   3.1    0.8        -
/a  The poorest province in China.
/b  The richest province in China.
Sources: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1987.



- 47 -                             Table 3.1
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimated cumu-              Disbursement profile
IBRD fiscal year              lative disbursements            of Regional trans-
and semester              US$ million            %        portation projects (X)
1989
June 30, 1989                  0.0                0                    0
1990
December 31, 1989                                                      1
June 30, 1990                  5.0               8                     6
1991
December 31, 1990                                                     24
June 30, 1991                 27.0              45                    44
1992
December 31, 1991                                                     62
June 30, 1992                 43.0              70                    73
1993
December 31, 1992                                                     79
June 30, 1993                 49.0              80                    88
1994
December 31, 1993
June 30, 1994                 55.0              90                    93
1995
December 31, 1994             61.0             100                   100
June 30, 1995



CHIfA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Nanchang-Jiujiang Road: Economic Data of its Service Area, 1986
Gross output value    Per capita output value
OE. agriculture           Of agriculture
Population      Area         and industry              and industry
(million)   ('000 km2)    (Y billio,i)/a                (Y/person)
Nanchang City                      3.4          0.62           5.80                          1,706
Xinjian County                     0.5          2.34           0.36                            720
Yongxiu County                     0.3          2.03           0.19                            633
De-an County                       0.1          0.93           0.23                         2,300
Jiujiang City & Country            0.7          1.51           1.34                          1,914
Total, the 4 Cities          5.0          7.43            7.92                         1,584
Total Jiangxi province            35.1        166.9           33.85                            964
% of the 4 cities
to the province                14.2          4.4            23.4              1.8 times higher
/a At 1980 constant prices.
Source: Statistical Yearbook of Jiangxi Province, 1986.



-  49  -                                                          Table 4.2
CHINA
JIAN6XI PROVINCIAL H16HMAY PROJECT
A. Traffic an the Existing Roads without the New Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
Expected  Traffic         vOCs  /1
Shangwu-                                           6rowth  Rates    on existing roads
Xujiapu-                                         ------------------ -----------------
Characteristics        Jiaoqiao-Yunshan- Yunshan- De'an-   Tongyuan-                1986-      2001-    Flat    Hilly
of existing Rd.       Shangwu  Aicheng  De'an    Tongyuan Jiujiang                  2000       2012   poor rd. poor rd.
Rd length                    15      60.0        42      30.7     23.6
width: pavement,e           6.5         6         6         6         6
lanes                 2         2         2         2         2
6radients                    9X    8-13X          8         8         8
flat     flat      flat   rolling  rolling
1986 av speed,kph            35        25        35        35       35
1986 vpd:
Trucks: Small               493       206       158       114      260                   6         4    315.0    340.3
Mediua            1433       579       503       411       426                  10        8    434.8    504.5
Large               69        91        98       100        58                  12       10    585.2    681.4
Tr.trailer         130        78        78        81        43                  12       10   1202.7   1456.2
Buses:  Small               957       294       243      225       290                  14        10    560.3    585.7  /2
pdius             ?726       23        12U       !00       199                  !2              ?2!.4    e37.7?  !?
Total                      3808      1484      1208      1031     1276
1992 vpd:
Trucks: Small               699       292       224       162      369
Nedium            2539      1026       891       728       755
Large              136       180       193       197       114
Tr.trailer         257       154       154       160        85
Buses:  Small              2101       645       533      494       637
Medium            1433       466       253       197       393
Total                      7164      2763      2249     1938      2352
2000 vpd:
Trucks: Small              1115       466       357      258       588
Medium            5442      2199      1910      1561      1618
Large              337       445       479       489       283
Tr.trailer         635       381       381       396      210
Buses:  Small              5992      1841      1522     1409      1816
Medium            3548      1153       626       4B9       973
Total                     17069      6485     5275      4601      54B7
Notes: 1. Not adjust with conversion factors.
2. vOCs of buses 128, and 40 passenger seats for small and medium buses
respectively) include time value of passengers at Y o.3/passenger-hour



CHINA                      -  50                                                           Table 4.3
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                         Page I of 2
B. Projected Traffic on the New Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway,and
on Existing Road with Project
(0 Traffic diverted to t generated on new road
VOCs /I
on new roads
Expected  -----------------
Characteristics        Jiaoqiao-           Aicheng- De'an-   Tongyuan-                        Traff.Gen   Flat    Hilly
of proposed Rd.        Aicheng             De'an    Tongyuan Jiujliang                        Rates (l) good rd. good rd.
Rd length (112.6ke)           39                  27        22      24.6
distance saved(ka)            36                  15       8.7        -I
width: pavement,a              9                   9         9          9
lanes                  2                   2          2         2
Gradients              up to 52            up to SX up to 5S  up to 52
Design Speed, kph             60                  60        60        60
Expected diversion
fr existing rd.(%)            30        75        70        80        80
1992 vpd:
Diverted traffic
Trucks: Small                429                 157       129       295                                   225.3    243.4
medium             1531                 624       582       604                                    313.6    S63.A
Large               176                 135       158        92                                    427.7    498.0
Tr.trailer          192                 108       128        68                                    890.0   1077.6
Buses:  Small               1114                 373       395       509                                   358.6    395.2 /2
nedium              779                 177       158       314                                    523.7    608.2 /2
Total                      4221                 1574      1551      1882
1992 vpd:
Generated traffic
Trucks: Small                 86                  31        26        59                             20
Medium              153                  62        58        60                             10
Large                18                  14        16          9                            10
Tr.trailer           38                  22        26         14                            20
Buses:  Small                223                  75        79       102                             20
Medium              156                  35        32        63                             20
Total                        674                 239       236       307
1992 vpd:
Diverted fr.railuy
Large truck                    0                   0         0         0
Medium bus                    34                  34        34        34
Total                         34                  34        34        34
Totallon neu road)          4929                1847      1821      2223
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--- --      _   --  - - - - -  -- - -  - - -



(il Traffic diverted to & generated on new road (Contd ....)                                                            Table 4.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                  Page 2 of 2
Jiaoqiao-          Aicheng- De'an-   Tongyuan-
Alcheng            De'an    T-nyuan Jiujiang
2000 vpd: Diverted traffic
Trucks: Saall               684                250       206       470
Medium            3282                1337      1249     l7q4
Large              435                 335       391      227
Tr.trailer         476                 267      317       168
Buses:  Soall              3178               1065      1127      1453
Medium            1929                 438       391      778
Total                      9984               3692      3680      4390
2000 vpd: Generated traffic
Trucks: Small               137                 50        41        94
Medium             328                 134       125      129
Large               43                  34        39       23
TrAtrailer          95                  53        63       34
Buses:  Small               636                213       225       291
Medium             386                  88        78      156
Total                      1625                571       572       72b
2000 vpd: Diverted fr. railway
Large truck                 266                266       266       266
Medium bus                   63                 63        63        63
Total                       32?                329       329       329
iota: lon nes roaan      iiv.au               4         QvL  4uil  5
(ii) Traffic left on eKisting road
1992 vpd:
Trucks; Small               490        73       67        32        74
Hedius            1777       256       267       146      151
Large               95        45        58        39        o
Tr.trailer         180        38        46       32        17
Buses:  Small              1470       161      160        99       127
Medium            1003       116        76        39       79
Total                      5015      691       675       388       470
2000 vpd:
Trucks: Small               780       116      107        52       118
Medium            3809       550       573      312       324
Large              236       III       144       98        57
Tr.trailer         445        95       114       79        42
Buses:  Small              4194       460      456       282       363
Nedium            2484       288       188       98       195
Total                     11948      1621     1582       920      1097
Notes: 1. Not adjust with conversion factors.
2. vOCs of buses (28, and 40 passenger seats for small and medium buses
respectively) include time value of passengers at ' o.3/passenger-hour



-52 -
Table 4.4
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on the New Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
in Passenger Car Equivalent Unit (PCUs)
. . 2 _ .  : _         .E _  27
1792 vpd:
Lard.e  s '             - -
Tr,trieder44
Bus:Ces:  LW7.& .     ;.c -"                        -I.X 
Tot:^                      :: H                46 _      45t$'_     4,
Trcc'5: :.TS.i     ;'                               *.        4       1;'
Ited:u   (.5' ,                           '- J,               e
7 .1 t                                     - ,  - _  -   - -  r
T,rafler4                '
Buses:     I:      0i       .. ;                         -- .-- -- -
>tai           :E-:'             ~~~~~~~.1":'  .
ik fei               -S. .Erg cc '    .      :t:-, :.



- 53 -                            Table 4.5
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Cost Conversion Factors, 1988
Financial cost         Conversion       Economic
composition (%) /a        factors         cost (M)
Construction
Labor
Skilled                             3.9                 3.0/b           11.7
Unskilled                           9.0                 0.77-            6.3
Equipment                            11.6                  1.3/c           15.0
Materials                            32.9                  1.0            32.9
Cement                                7.7                  1.3             10.0
Steel                                 4.1                 1.3              5.3
Timber                                4.0                 1.3/b             5.2
Bitumen                               1.4                 1.0               1.4
Fuel                                  5.0                 1.0               5.0
overheads                            20.                  1 .0             ---
Total                            100.0                                113.2
Vehicle Operation (based
on 4-ton truck, hilly
terrain)
Labor                                 7.7                 1.0              7.7
Equipment depreciation               13.7                 1.3             17.8
Fuel                                 39.5                 1.0             39.5
Tires                                 7.9                 1.0              7.9
Maintenance                          25.6                 1.7/d           42.7
Overheads                             5.6                 1.0              5.6
Total                            100.0                                121.2
/a Excluding miscellanea.
/b According to Peter Dittus, "Economic Prices for Project Evaluation in
China," January 1988.
/c Own estimates.
/d Based on 1/3 unskilled labor, 1/3 skilled labor and 1/3 spare parts.
/e   Shadow exchange rate of Y 5.5 / US $ 1.0 is used.



- 54 -                                                                                                                           Table 4.6
L"
.001 -M 93L am %W
ft..w
,W   no                                     O-                                   wo, kw".                     W. boold.                   M.
1.2 Itiod  lew tomato -.1 --P  1*0                                                           fm  ..Nu                    W                           at  moll -W                       bi
11.0            11.0                                                       .0     -La                          II.2%              ILM      .10               MM           .a               [Le
;M    IL$                 ZLM                                                    IZIL 11; JL2                 ;ZtUnz: MI                  II&C, n,A                   QLIII  La
"I   IL"                 ILI$                                                              ILU               'ALU. ILN                   41,10, U."                   aLls   La
:142     H.401            I                                     6.16    ILE                 'Lap    lo.p       'L          a      'La         .n    11.0      A.Is    'LLia    IN          LU          Le
La    L:                                       ...   3.94  ILU    Ld   jLn   u.-                                            in   La   IL"    L                  0:01  2. 1,  LL"
M               4.0       i:M     IL   I       11                                                                14     La       'L"      "'                          t  to                        N.
:M               4.63   *."    &*    o,"    :jI   c:j  joill  ILM    (10   ILS   [La    La   I&A   ILM    La   ILOB  '11,
in                                 1.0      1.41        P      a.I    ILIII   U.11          Le      11.1,    ".II       Lu      EL to    n.13       0.4      11.14    .1.11               :.u     jL:
:ft              4.03     1.03    :2.3       2.0      4.31      0.11    ZLI.    b.11        L:       ILSI    8.8         6. fal    JLIG    ILH       0.0      IL"      ILE                   M     79
W                                                                                                                               3L
to   Lo                              C:   L                                                            L                                                                    6.
JLW  A%*  0.  20.0  Xa                                     aILL :   010  AN  "                                            A is
3LI   IL 3,  0.43  "Js  AN    CM   U.0 3                                    &a   P. to  N                          .11
o!                                                                                                           4.0                         to
Q..      IL:       1.       ..I'    ILSI
st.                                   ::a                                  'L"
'L"                                  "'I"         11    IL
4.43     4 #1    $1.11      Lff      1-0       4.11    11.3.    9.31       1,43    11.63               L03    104.                            .a
"::,a,    I                                                                                   al.'
oep                                                                        n:,        1.13    "Al    o.,          1:a
I.                                 Le         44 I             0.63    WU    Is. u         Le    I.L.4    :;:$I                           A
Jul              La       4.03   lija       0_1         :0      I..?   .31.0    13LIG       6.43   Ili 1.   W2.          :61   IWO    IILO           4.4     2L 1.   ULI:
M                443         04   W. n      10.111    2.11      I..,   'IL35   ob.32                M il          O'     -.0     b.Ss   ALU          6.      .0.24   I
-4    4;A.                                             J..                d. S      ,L,l             .0.o,   "I..                 .3..      YLU
M                  63      .41   11,41    1101         2.51             aL 1.   2WIl        0.13  ft -                   0:0        to         I                                                  231,
us. 11 .11
Nil                       IM  .1411                      a              im 13 in O   1.4  MJ.*  "' ,,  ..                           I                coj  M.*  2a
Nu               2          .Q    114,'o    A.2        ;.11     6.11   3111 ob   Out        Ca    2111.11   ULU          4.9    IL%    UL34          ..a    W    II   aLn
J1..n              (1111                       EV       iLln                to  -   v In
im,    '21-11
9121    '.d                ...d.
IL34:       P              .1,30                        iLm       L:
0.1   ['L.:                                                                                   31                                                      A
L
'I                                                     .11 M     IL 2,              IL
I::      Lot      1.41      1-14     C.$      f.31       ."        'a      '.59                                   Is
:Z        1.                                                                                                  "...    , it        .. to    11        to
2                L V      Clk       -.31     IX        LO       La       L=       10.0      ::V       L a      LI'      0.11      $.v     ICU        62)     6'.                4.,       I       -M,
im               Lv       CP       :1.8      :. so     6.11      All    2.3,       114        v                                                                                           L.
LV       0.21     2.                                                                                                                                 :1.Jv
I.
'n                         :f:a                          .1        .V     "45         IS      6.21    :1.36
19%              LV       1-1)    ...4       lill               CU      W  131   IL"        l.n'    11-P          4        v              W,        k-v                 LI#
lm               cv       VJI    W .         1.4                L "      , ,      "  to       V       L.                   n              .0.80     0.21               :Lot               :.31    .  II
in               LIF      I-P      19.11     I..         0       ..     22.31    zz:,.      ::       : .
L                                                                                  H.        Lo,       I.        L.3                        2- I
lm               LV       0.21    21.11      IX       La        M&    a."         13 a      :.II                                          ZL.          11"    &II    B..                  it,        .1
M                olp      6.23    an         Ln        ..v      1.16    Z9.40    Wil         x       IL%      H...      Lv       A..      MO                              to
LV   &V      11.11      LO       I                          I  .1              I                    .11              14-a               II to    It P
:II             A             I     ::1     I:.:
So    I.          P      is:         4.              21.                P.       IL
cv                                            6. 1.     L.      0.11        .v     Si-A      Io`u      ..v     tLo       CLn                U,       SLU
Lv       oll    M14         Ln        .H               r, to    U.A         .V     'I                             4.                .2,       .3
27     0.      13.4       .4       ..;I                                            .0     11:1       L!               U A'       Lo,    ,          '-"
".P       4.21    *11   U.2.          :",V,    10.0     AM        ...     S..       IL24
::v      Lo'    ":V,,        :,P,                               1I.N       all      S.ii         S     a
h     4i.11    .6.3                6. 1.    an                                   11:11                       o"t
xm               OX    4.                                                                                                  2,                83   LD            a        41
,W               Lo,  L                                                 W.
..II    b  P     6.0        4.     I             -       ..     IL        IL.
L,                            O    I                      3) IZLII   MI  1031 Ma    4.1,  1131 1.   :.V  .0    IIL
11   J!L..                                                                                                                     I    or   l(Lo                        1.
ml               LV        S.     I    a    ILP        I        a       lf 2    4 .                I        I         I        I-n      I                               is
L!
00 -   1. 'n
- =eMM lw,_ 123
oil
10
j      I..:.              0.                                               a        Z    L:
rm                                                                                                               4                                                                 a
im                                                                        L'P'              M'                                    L.   to
14"               .11       l-      L                     .      :      '...
ift                        ..V     ...A        A       I.r               Q.::    J.0        L
W 11
040              I.       a        Wu        I...      '.3      1 1;    0.0       1. x
a        e                                                                          to
En               0.11     4.112   I1.21      L't       -.13     ill    2:.d       N
..$I     too    ILM         . 0      - -       - I     I...                           I      !,::.                .
24.3.     1.3       `0       , O     3"I    v 0          ;.0     1.                                                      o,:v     3:;,                        ;ol
L-         11     I. "     sl:,$    13 n      . a      A        -xv           I       I                :13    12.4       3. am
im                                                                                -110      ..Q
me               1:0?       0)                                     I    411.0     41.01     I        ILI      a                  q, "     4.01    6.12    a  I        a,.
U..                                                     U 4U.
11     21    11"          1.11     11.       I.::                          a     32                                                      4. .1;   I.,. "I,
i.A
to    r         .":    I,
,    ,  , ;  U
1;   to       loo.ji
A
A -1               Ed          XI              an - &S"
0I
Lt                                                        k                         ...I                                                                                 .4,
X   A
L        La         It
1:     1 4                         LZ                -.411    I 4       ',a
r     I         :-a
M               5                           -.r      ;;."      ..:    I; to
lm                        :o"    :L',                                                11       j    .1'1       I        Ill    :.4:    J..,         .,I    lo ..    loq                           :3.
4     :131      a                             d         4         ;     .1.4     L         .::    1- .3     .3                 1; d     :I
:. .,                                              ;      .C                                    's                  ;    b  .:   Z.
on                 41                                                       .3                                                   U..                :Q
M'                                                                                Is.                         ..P.              .4! r                 a   It   I.' t                               11
M                .-Q         41                                                                                  a              U         17          ill    C  1.    1).d                        1: 6
to             O'                          S. t.              a,        ;           I     9.4       W.4
i.4        11    1; 1,      I                 .:I               'I        :..I    0  L
Nu               Lot        A,   a             11       .a        .1                                to I.     I                           l,                                                         o,
lo,   .,M                      -     , !!!             1.       1.911              EN       I -A               filt        3:
fo.   k.'l                  ED  - :. ;R                             1I              cm.   1, 'A                 up          1j.
. .......... ...... . ... .......
lee'.
ul "W. v, 'emil.



- 55 -
Version 2                                                                                                                         Table 4.7
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL H16HWAY PROJECT
A. Traffic on the Existing Bridge mithout the New Nanchang Bridge
Expected  Traffic  VOCs on
6rowth  Rates    Bridges /1
Bayi Bridge                  6anjjiang Bridge                 ------------------ --------
Characteristics       -------------------------  -------------------------                   1986-     2001-    Old
of existing Bridge         in      out    Total         in      out    Total                 2000      2012   poor br.
Length: fr. Jinggangshan
Ike)   to Changling                         12.00                        23.00
width: pavement,a                                7                            6
lanes                                     2                            2
Gradients                                     0-1Z                         0-1Z
Design Speed, kph                               15                            15
1987 vpd:
Trucks: Nedium            2403      1096      3499       995      1822     2817                  10         8    434.8
Large             1155       539      1694      140       334       474                 12        10    585.2
Buses:  Seall               838     1531      2369        24        36       60                   4        4    560.3 /2
Van               1061      1270     2331        77        83       160                 10         8    721.4 /2
IarnP              M?A      Iolt     7937        4S        a        113                 12         8   1285.5 /2
Total                     6983      5447    12430       1301     2323      3624
1992 vpd:
Trucks: Medium            3870      1765      5635      1602     2934      4537
Large             2036       950     2985       247       589       835
Buses:  Small              1020     1863      2882        29       44        73
Van               1709      2045     3754       124       134      258
Large             2689      1782     4471       115        85       199
Total                    11323      8405    19728       2117     3785      5902
2000 vpd:
Trucks: Medium            8296      3784    12079      3435      6290      9725
Large             5040      2352     7392       611      1457     2068
Buses:  Small              1395     2549      3945        40       60       100
Van               3663      4384     8047       266       287      552
Large             6659      4411    11070       284       209      493
Total                    25053    17481    42533        4635     8303    12939
Notes; 1. Not adjusted with conversion factors
2. VOCs of buses (28,40,and 60 passenger seats for saall, medium, and large
buses respectively) include time value of passenger at Y 0.3/passenger-hour.



- 56 -
CHINA                                                                         Table 4.8
JIAN611 PROVINCIAL H16HWAY PROJECT                                                           Page I of 2
B. Projected Traffic on the New Nanchang Bridge
(i Traffic diverted to & generated on new bridge
VOCs on
Bridge It
Bayi Bridge                  6anijiang Bridge              Nanchang Bridge        Expected ---------
Characteristics       -------------------------  -------------------------  -------------------------- Traff.6en   New
of proposed Bridge         in      out    Total         in      out    Total         in       out    Total   Rates (1) good br.
- . _ _ _
Length: fr. Jinggangshan
Ike)   to Changling                         12.00                        23.00                         8.98
distance saved(ks)                            3.02                        14.02                             0
width: pavement,e                                7                            6
lanes                                    2                             2                            b
6radients                                    0-1                         0-1%                          0-1%
Design Speed, kph                               15                           15                           60
Expected diversion
fr existing rd.(lZ                              b5                           80
1992 vpd: Diverted traffic
-e________________________
Trucks: Medium                                                                                          7292              313.6
Large                                                                                           2609              427.7
Buses:  Small                                                                                           1932               358.6
Van                                                                                             2646              523.7
Large                                                                                           3066              944.9
Total                                                                                                  17545
1992 vpd: 6enerated Traffic
Trucks: Nediue                                                                                          1458        20
Large                                                                                            261        10
Buses:  S&all                                                                                            193        10
van                                                                                             529        20
Large                                                                                           613        20
Total                                                                                                   3055
Total(on new bridge)                                                                                   20600



- 57 
fiO  Traffic diverted to & generated on new bridge                                                Table 4.8
Page 2 of 2
Bayi Bridge                 6anjjiang Bridge              Nanchang Bridge
in      out    Total        in       out    Total        in      out    Total
2000 vpds Diverted traffic
Trucks: Nediua                                                                                        15632
Large                                                                                         6459
Buses:  Small                                                                                          2644
Van                                                                                           5673
Large                                                                                         7590
Total                                                                                                37998
2000 vpd: Generated traffic
Trucks: Nedius                                                                                        3126
Large                                                                                          646
Buses:  Small                                                                                          264
Van                                                                                           1135
Large                                                                                         1518
Total                                                                                                 6689
Totallon new bridge)                                                                                 44687
(ii) Traffic left on existing road
1992 vpd:
Trucks: nedius                               1972                          907
Large                                1045                         167
Buses:  Small                                1009                           15
van                                  1314                          52
Large                                1565                          40
Total                                        6905                         1180
2000 vpd:
Trucks: Medium                               4228                         1945
Large                                2587                         414
Buses:  Seall                                1301                           20
Van                                  2917                         110
Large                                3875                          99
Total                                       14887                         2588
Notes: 1. Not adjusted with conversion factors
2. VOCs of buses (28,40,and 60 passenger seats for small, medium, and large
buses respectively) include time value of passenger at Y 0.3/passenger-hour.



- 58 -
Table 4.9
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic on the New Nanchang Bridge
in Passenger Car Equivalent Unit (PCUs)
Nanchar,3
1'99  vpdi
Trucks: Mediux           (12.51          21877
L.aryr          !3i809
Buses:  Sial1             (2              42 O
Van             L2             6b'.51
Large           12.)            9197
Total
50224
2t;00 vpd:
Trucks: Medium            :2.5)          .9562
Large           /3J            5096t
Buses:  Sall             (2!             6514
Van             12             I1345
Large           (2.5)          26612
Total
Total                         104999
Note: Figures in parentheses are car equivalent factors of
vehicles moving or. flat terrain.



CHINA
JIAN611 PROVINCIAL HIGHMAY PROJECT
----------------------------------
Economic Rater, of Return (ERRi and Sensitivliy Analises
-------------------------------------------------------
NanEbang Brtdge
---------------
taillion 'tuan) 1-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------- Base Case --------------------------                                    -------------------------------------------- Sensitivity Andlyses -------------------------------------------
-------- Costs --------             ---------------------------------                                   --------- Case  I---------              ---------- Ease  2 ---------             --------- Ease  3 ---------   Froo  cDnversiop  factors  ! -3
Const. Maint.                       --VOC  Savings-              Accident                               Corist.                                 Fonst.                                   [onst.                                  -------------------------
cost    cost                                                reduction                                 costs       Benefits                     josts    Benefits                        costs    benefits                       Const.    Total
tear                       1-2      Total        Normal  Generated    savings    Total                    Net        1+2(W         (-20%)          Net         +201)                        Net                     t-2011           Net       costs       savings           Net
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1589         26.00                   2b.W                                                                                                             2v:    31. "(P
1990         52. W                   52.0                                                               t51.00)    62.40                        1 b*. 4(-)    o2. 4..,                   i    4...                                                                         i5b.24,,
1991         511.00                  J2. VI                                                             i52. vv i    o2.0                        K. 4%,        t,2.4L,                         4 .1 i                                                                      (157.72)
31.2v        41                                                                                 7.5,-       2L,.54
092          2 b. 0(,                2b. Ov        36.82          4. bi.1      v,'-2       41.b4         15, t)4      -3 I .        33.31            .II                         t4        0.4;         26. -,v       "".:I             3i        2.6-,
0. V4        .,)4       43. I(,                                                                                        3B.q3                                                                                                         B.Z'B        56.95
199"                                                              5. 39        V.-         48.71         46.bl          v.04        38.37                       (,,-,4       46.71        48.0               -4       'a.7        ;6.9:          " ..IL,
jQq4                     .,.(14       (1. (14      5o. 4t,        6.31              I      57            ',t.ib         0.04        45.oo        4 j. '-c          -4       , 7.           t'. Ot          0        4 5. o, -     4f.':                        q.12        66.OB                                                I
Iq95                     ki. %)4      -jM          59. (17        7.9                     6b.(j;        C6.05             04       53.35         53.31             v4       cit. 0       bb. O'                    5    5        5.1i                        I   uk,      76.b)                                               Ln
1496                    fi. (14      u.04        69.15           B.L,5        v. 24        ?B. L,4      la.            0. ti       62.4:        62.i           o.4        7 5. (,4     -, B. uL.         04       E2.U          h' . 39                     1   9'!      B9.93                                               %0
199"                     v. k,4       v.v4        8t). 95       10.13          t-. ' 14    i I . ' 2    I 1. 2B        v.  4          ot,       73.0           %,.,4      9J.",        91 .')B        v. L,4                    77.v'                       11.61    103. 15                                                  1
IM                          4         o. 4       94,?7        11.8b          v.24       I -,b. B-     I 4b. B,        D.&4        B5.5,        b',,4D         ki. 1,4    1,q). B7     1    81)        0. k)4      65.5v         85.46                                   1 19. t",
IM                       v. i,4       v. -)4     1 W. 94        13.B3             24      125.4         125.02,            04      1 Ov. (,5    1 0-.-. 0 1         v4      125,6       125. Q:            ;-4     1 tlv. v'                                  1_',.76     138.7E
200                         v4         0.04      1-9.Bq          16.23         ki. 24     146.36        146.321         ,04      I 1 7. u9     I I ?. 05          v4      146.6       146.                 -4    117.0?        1 1                          14.64       IbM t
2(101                    (,.,?4        t-. t-4   152.06         19. k-ti       ti. ?4     1 71. 3t)    M .26            v. (14     137. t,4     I ' .7. 0)      f).,)4     1I . 3c,    171. 21,           .(,4     17. v4                                                 171.2b
2002                    15. 6(-      15. b(i    1 76. ti 1      22.24          ti. 24           49      184.89         15. 6(,    I ov.         144.79          1 5. 6(-         44      10.8;               bt,    I 6, .. 3Y    144.                                     IB4.89
"(103                    0. v4         0.04      24. 39         2o.04              24     234.61    274.03              j.,)4    tW ..74        I e.:. 7,.,      v.,.,4    -134.67         -,4.03            o4     187.-4        17.                                     2,4.o3
Z,.lv4                   ki. o4        (P. 04    247.96         30.48          v. 24      274.bB         ',4.64         t,.,,4    -,19.74       219.7              64    z74.68         74.64              0      -IQ.-,4         I . 1,                                274.64
'.05                     to.,14        e. 1)4    2B5.60         3.t8           t,. :4    3,21.52        31.46            .,,4    :57-2:    '21j7. 18                       ,2 1. 52     321.48           y. --4       7. 2'z     -".1e                                    321.48
2k,vb                    ".,)4         (1.1)4    334.34         41.77          o. -214    Wo, -    Ic-.Il             i). :4     ;v I , 4     3k, I . v4       o, (,4    ',7t. K                        v. ,4       1. jB                                               170. 31
7                   O.,)4         0.04       391.4,-        46.,v          ti. 4    44M 4         44,,.',        o. 04      ',5.,.4:      35-'.39              4    44..-.        44                  0       52.4,    .-, f 2. ' 9                                40. 5(,
Cl. k,4      0.04    458. 2v,          57_15          Q. 4     5i5.,,        , i j. 11'     v.,,4    4 I            412,.51            (4      515.64        I                 0       412,55       41-151                                   515.6,
C,. 04       v.0        536.40         6 7. v, 2         2, 4   b, ',. t6    w.   6              L,4    462.93    462.89                  -4           66     ol)3. 62         Cl. 0      4o2.93       4K.89                                    60.62
0         &. v4      b:7.95         7B.4c)        i). :4    7tii). t5                                1,b, .         '-tj . ,B       v. ,, 4    7,b. 65     70.bl            (I. 04    S65.32        5o1j."a                                  76.61
V.Uq         v.4       115. 1',       91.85              4    8,7_2                iB           )4    66I 'B         t6j.74          ki. 4    82?.2.'    M .118                  04      br)1.76      bol . 74
15.60        I 5. b(i    Bbv. 6t,    107. ',3          0. 24    966. '?       ;5-'. 77        Ii.to       774.70       759. I 6       15.6L,    9bo. ,,         952.77         15. 0       774.70        759. 1-                                 952.11                           m
f,
ERR  -      '17.9t.T.                   ERR  =       :o.51"%                     EAR  t    34. ',9%                       ERR  =      13.01                        ERR         -,B. vv%
C)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ------------------
._I: All prices are calculated at September 198B Eonstant prices.
i      6outine  maintenance  cost  at  Y  3,000/ka  and periodic  maintenance  required  every  IL, years  at  abDut  14   of  total bridge  COnStrUEtiOn  EDSt.
Increases due tr, conversion factors.
4-. All 4igures are rounded.



ANNEX 1
- 60 -                             Page 1
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR
CONSULTANT SERVICES
FOR
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION
I.  INTRODUCTION
The Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department (JPTD) and the Nanchang
Municipal Government (NMG) plan to construct a new 113-km two-lane, Class II
highway between Nanchang and Jiujiang and a double-deck, 6-lane bridge about
1,900 meters long over the Ganjiang at Nanchang.  The work will comprise
contracts for the highway civil works and        contracts for the bridge and
approach road construction. Accordingly, the JPTD and NMG will seek the
services of qualified and experienced consultants to form part of joint
consultants/JPTD and consultants/NMG teams to supervise the works. It is
estimated that about _ man-years of consultant services will be needed.
II. OBJECTIVES
The purpose of the services is to ensure:
(a) that all civil works are carried out in full compliance with
specificationo; and
(b) that JPTD and NMG engineers on the joint supervision team are trained
both formally and on-the-job in civil works supervisicn.
III. DEFINITIONS
In these Terms of Reference the following words shall have the
meanings hereby assigned to them:
(a)  Contractor:          The construction firm(s) which the JPTD and NMG
will contract with for the road and bridge
construction.
(b)  Contract:            Contract to be agreed between the parties
mentioned under (a) above.
(c)  Works:               The works to be executed in accordance with the
Contract.



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                          Page 2
(d)  Engineer:                  , JPTD and        , NMG.
(e)  Resident Engineer:  The engineer appointed by the Engineer in
(d) above.
(f)  Employers:           The JPTD and the NMG.
IV. SCOPE OF WORK
The Consultant is to supervise the Works and to approve the materials
and workmanship of the Works. Consultants will have no authority to relieve
the Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract nor to
order any work involving delays or any extra payment by the Employers without
the consent of the Employers.
General Duties
(a) to decide on the Contractor's application for subletting parts of the
Works, after prior consultation with the Employers;
(b)  to explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies of Contract
Documents and to provide assistance to the Employers in the
settlement of disputes with the Contractor;
(c) to approve the Contractor's working drawings and if necessary to
issue further drawings and/or to give instructions to the Contractor;
(d) to provide data for the setting out of the Works;
(e) to approve or to reject the Contractor's superintendence, key
personnel and/or construction program, materials and/or sources of
materials;
(f) to control and appra:Lse the progress of the Works, to order if
required the suspensLon of the Works, and/or to determine the amount
of extension of the period for completion of the Works after prior
consultation and agreement with the Employers;
(g) to issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix rates for
unpriced Works, to order day-works and/or to decide on alternatives,
provided that such measures will not increase the total contract
price by more than 5X;
(h) to prepare and issue certificates of payment to the Contractor and to
certify the completion of the Works or parts thereof;
(i) to inspect the Works during and/or after the Maintenance Period and
to issue the Maintenance Certificate;
(j) to inspect the performance of the Works with regard to worksmanship
and compliance with the Specifications and to order, supervise or



ANNEX 1
- 62 -                          Page 3
perform tests on materials and/or Works before covering up and to
approve or disapprove the Contractor's plant and equipment;
(k) to order if required the uncovering of completed Works and/or the
removal and substitt.ion of improper materials and/or Works;
(1) to check systematically the progress of the Works and to order the
initiation of certain Works which are part of the Contract;
(m)  to examine and attend the measurement of any work which is about to
be covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed
thereon andijr to examine and attend the measurement of the completed
Works;
(n) to check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other
statements with respect to arithmetical errors and compliance with
the Contract and if required, to make corrections thereof;
(o) to supervise the Contractor in all matters concerning safety and care
of Works and if required to request from the Contractor the necessary
lights, guards, fencing, and watching; and
(p) to carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from
time to time be delegated in writing by the Engineer.
The Consultant shall prepare and implement all the administrative
systems and procedures needed to ensure the effective supervision of the Works
in accordance with the scope of work outlined above and generally accepted
international standards.
Training
The Consultant shall prepare a detailed training program for the
engineers assigned by JPTD and NMG to the joint supervisory teams.  The
program should cover both formal and informal (on-the-job) training in
construction supervision and specifically:
(a) the organization and administration of the supervision of bridge and
road Contracts;
(b) quality control and testing to ensure compliance with specifications;
and
(c) preparation of systems and procedures for recording progress, quality
control testing, costs, variations or extra works, etc.
Staffing
The Consultant shall provide the requisite number of supervisory
staff to the joint supervision team who will be resident on the project and
who will be responsible for the overall supervision of the Contractor's
operations. Additional personnel such as inspectors, surveyors, and soil
technicians shall either be provided by the Employers or be hir i locally by



ANNEX 1
- 63 -                           Page 4
the Consultant. The number of experienced and qualified staff for the work
involved shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of the project. The
Consultant's staff should be graduate engineers or the equivalent with at least
12 years practical site experience on major road works in the following
fields: supervision and administration of major road contracts, structural
engineering including foundations, pavement design and construction including
earthworks, drainage, soils and materials engineering, etc.
The Consultant shall purchase all equipment, office materials,
instruments and similar appurtenance he feels is required over and above that
furnished by the Contractor. The Contractor shall furnish the Consultant will
vehicles complete with maintenance, cost of operation and operators. A field
laboratory with the required equipment to carry out field materials testing
shall be furnished by the Contractor. The operations and maintenance cost of
all equipment except vehicles shall be the responsibility of the Consultant.
Control of the Work
The Consultant shall establish all P.I.'s and Bench Marks on the
ground.
The Consultants shall supervise the initial engineering stakeout to
establish line and grade, setting stakes for alignment and structures, and
check and verify subsequent stakeout control by field survey parties supplied
by the Contractor to ensure satisfactory control of the work.
They shall submit for review and approval by the Employers necessary
changes, improvements on the drawings, specifications and other work in
reasonable time to permit compliance with the design and construction
schedule.
They shall, however, make minor changes in grade or alignment as
needed to balance quantities, changes in size and type of culverts etc. The
extent of changes in alignment and grade the Consultant is permitted to make
without prior authority approval shall be 1.5 km in a continuous measurement.
Material Inspection and Control
The Consultant shall carry out all test sampling in the field and
perform such tests as can be made    the Field Laboratory provided by the
Contractor to maintain quality control. Other inspection and testing of
materials and finished articles to be incorporated in the work may be made by
the Consultant or by a competent and acceptable independent inspection agency
subject to the authorization and approval of the Employers and of no cost to
the Consultant.  The Consultant shall notify the Contractor of any defects in
his work and i' necessary, stop operations concerned with the defective work
until the defects are corrected.
Measurement and Payment
The Consultant shall make field measurements of quantities of
materials incorporated in the project and maintain up-to-date books containing
such computations or other information concerning the use of construction
materials, properly segrated into sections of construction.



ANNEX 1
- 64 --                         Page 5
Periodic reports shall be prepared and transmitted to the Employers
showing quantities incorporated in the work at the end of each pay period, and
also showing monies earned by and due the contractor.
The Consultant shall maintain up-to-date records of the remaining
quantities to be incorporated in the work, the cost estimates relating thereto
broken down into foreign and local currency components.
Claims and Arbitration
%        The Consultant shall review claims which the contractor may present
for additional compensation and/or additional time allowances and recommend
appropriate action; perform change orders as necessary during the progress of
the work to cover possible changes within the general scope of the
construction contract. The Consultant will evaluate the Contractor's
requirement for payment and will certify the request or cause to have it
changed so that it can be certified.
The Consultant shall give his decisions on all claims and accounts,
all questions, disputes, and differences which under the terms of the Contract
are left for his settlement and decisions and shall aid and assist the
Employers in dealing with all other claims and accounts, disputes and
differences relating to the works.
The Consultant shall assist and advise the Employers with regard to
any matter or thing which may be the subject of arbitration, inquiry or
litigation and, if and when required by the Employers, he shall attend and
give supporting evidence and otherwise assist the Employers before any court
or in any arbitration or at any inquiry dealing with any matters arising from
or in connection with the execution of the works.
The supporting evidence should contain sufficient information to
reveal the nature of the Contractor's complaint, circumstances pertaining
thereto, and the substance of any commitments made by either party in this
regard. Thorough coverage of the Contractot's operations relative to the work
in question should be maintained in the Daily Project Diary. Comments
covering equipment and/or materials which may be involved, progress
maintained, should be included.
In the event of any arbitration or litigation if the Consultant is
called upon to assist before a Board of Arbitration proceedings or before a
court of law he shall receive separate remuneration for his assistance in the
trial and finalization of the case.
V. RECORDS AND REPORTS
The Consultant shall maintain& records of deviations from or changes
in the contract plans, and provide one marked-up master set of drawings in
such manner that the original plans can be corrected by others to correspond
with the "As Built" conditions.



ANNEX 1
- 65 -                          Page 6
The Consultant shall provide all required services for certifications
of the project in accordance with the World Bank Loan Agreement and subsequent
letters of implementation. He shall:
(a) prepare and/or assist the Employers in preparing periodic progress
and financial status reports, and prepare a final report on the
project;
(b) provide certification where required by the Emplovers for interim and
final payments;
(c) provide the Employers with such technical and engineering
consultation required in its day-to-day activities pertaining to the
project, as may be requested;
(d) keep records of all work done in the engineering and construction
phases of the work and make an activity and progress report for each
month of operation;
(e) prepare estimated progress schedule report prior to beginning the
engineering work for the engineering phase; and
(f) keep records of all payments approved and report such in the regular
monthly report. The regular monthly report will be completed at the
end of each calendar month and will contain three sections:
(i) description of activities (with photographs)
(ii progress chart
(iii) expenditure record.
These three sections will be correlated with the estimated activity
and progress schedules. The report will be signed by the Consultant and
fifteen copies submitted to each of the Employers. Two copies will be
forwarded to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank).



ANNEX 2
Page 1
- 66 -
JIANGXI HIGHWAY DATA BANK PREPARATION, PAVEMENT
EVAL'JATION AND STRENGTHENING PROGRAM AND MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT STUDY
Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       The total length of the highway network in Jiangxi Province is
31,875 km, of which about 3,680 km or less than 12% are all-weather roads with
a bituminous or gravel surface.  About         km of the paved road network is
showing signs of distress under the increasing traffic and need urgent
strengthening. Furthermore, in recent years the Provincial Transport
Department (PTD) has faced increasing problems and costs in maintaining its
road network due both to substandard and aging pavements and to the growing
volumes of heavy vehicle traffic.
2.       Therefore, the PTD proposes to evaluate the condition of the paved
roads in order to prepare a strengthening program and to review the
organizational and operational aspects of its paved road maintenance with a
view to bringing them up to date. Accordingly, to preserve the asset value
represented by the existing highway network and to provide for the efficient
and safe movement of traffic, the PTD has decided to carry out the following
t Ludy.
3.       It is expected that about         man-months of foreign consulting
would be required for the training aspect involved in carrying out this work.
II. OBJECTIVES
4.       The study aims at (a) establishing a provincial road data base
compatible with national guidelines, comprising an inventory of permanent
features and current conditions of existing paved roads; (b) beginning regular
monitoring of the current condition of paved roads; (c) identifying pavement
overlay and strengthening needs and resource requirements for about _  km of
paved roads; and (d) pilot implementation of a maintenance planning and
management system, compatible with national guidelines, to enable a systematic
approach to maincenance programming.
III. SCOPE OF STUDY
A. General
5.       The study team shall perform all field investigations, engineering
studies, cost estimates, economic and financial analyses, and systems design,
as required to obtain the objectives given in the preceding Section II.



ANNEX 2
- 67 -                            Page 2
B. Scope of Work
6.       The project will consist of five parts of what will ultimately be an
integrated road management system. The parts will be carried out
concurrently:
Part I: Development and pilot implementation of a basic provincial road
data base, compatible with both the proposed national road data bank and
provincial needs, and comprising an inventory of permanent features, road
conditions and traffic characteristics. The system should comprise basic
items initially, provide for regular updating, and permit future
expansion.
Part II: Selection and pilot implementation of a paved road management
model to serve as a tool for preparing maintenance programs. The model
should analyze the provincial road data base; identify maintenance needs
in accordance with specified intervention criteria; rank the needs by
economic return; permit interactive refinement of the resultant work
program to satisfy budget and other considerations; and be consistent with
national MOC recommendations.
Part III: Review and implement a pavement evaluation method for obtaining
data needed for the preparation of detailed road improvement and
strengthening programs. The method should utilize physical measures of
pavement strength, condition and traffic that are compatible both with the
new MOC deflection-based rehabilitation design method and also with the
national road data bank and the provincial road management system.
Part IV:  Make preliminary evaluations of a 5-year policy and program for
the paved network, the impact of current and future traffic loading
levels, the need for capacity improvements, and institutional issues.
Part V: Carry out .he training of local engineers in all aspects of the
above work.
7.       To this end, the study team shall:
(a) Prepare a current inventory of the entire paved road network in the
province comprising:
(i)  A road features inventory, including identification of road
class, route number, province, maintenance district, maintenance
section, and section length; construction history and
construction details (types and widths of pavement and shoulder,
gradient, curvature, drainage, terrain); traffic history;
regional freezing index and average precipitation.
(ii)  A traffic inventory for the network, including traffic counts by
vehicle type at selected points on the network, and load data
for heavy vehicles (as the data become available from (b) below
or other sources).
(iii)  A road condition survey, based on a simple, rapid inspection
method (such as drive-over, or sampling) to assess the
approximate levels of pavement roughness (see Attachment A),
pavement distress, and shoulder and drainage conditions.



ANNEX 2
- 68 -                            Page 3
(b)  Review and implement the method of pavement evaluation, based on the
research work of the MOC's Highway Scientific Research Institute, for
the identificatien and design of road improvement and strengthening
works; and conduct an evaluation of a designated sample of paved
roads including the following:
(i)  Select and implement a physical method of measuring road rough-
ness in standard units of the international roughness index
(IRI), and conduct roughness measurements on the sample roads.
(ii) Assess pavement strength and construction characteristics on the
sample roads through standard surface deflection and other tests
as required for the design and evaluation of rehabilitation.
(iii) Select and implement improved methods for traffic counting by
vehicle class and sample weighing of heavy vehicle axles, and
conduct surveys at selected stations representing the sample
roads.
(iv) Consider modifying (ii) above to be undertaken in two stages for
roads unlikely to be scheduled for treatment within the first
two-year period, namely an immediate preliminary assessment
derived from a small sample of measurements followed by a
detailed assessment conducted shortly before the scheduled time
of treatment.
(c)  Establish a provincial road data base for the storage of, and access
to, data collected under (a), and (b) above; ai provide guidelines
for the collection, capture, audit and reporting of all items, in
accordance with national recommendat:ons.
(d)  Review national recommendations and implement on a pilot scale, a
system for the management of road maintenance and improvement,
including regular monitoring of the network, updating of the data
base and preparation of work programs. Evaluate the staffing and
costs of implementing the system and expanding the scope to bridges
and unpaved and local roads.
(e) Prepare an indicative medium-term policy and program for the paved
network, based on an analysis 1 of data collected under items (a) and
(b) above, and recommending:
(i)  a strategy for the allocation of budget resources to new
construction improvemunt and maintenance work;
(ii) appropriate intervention criteria for identifying improvement
and maintenance works;
(iv) a five-year program for improvement and strengthening works;
1/ Preferably, an available road policy evaluation model, such as HDM III,
RTIM2, etc. should be used for the analysis.



ANNEX 2
- 69 -                             Page 4
(v) estimated expenditures for the fivre-year period; and
(vi) the estimated impact of the program on the network in terms of
physical condition and economic benefits.
(f) Provide advice to PTD on the implications from:
(i) an evaluation of the axle load survey results, the impact on
deterioration of the network and possible control measures for
vehicle loading;
(ii) an evaluation of the need for bus parking bays, traffic turning
bays, climbing or overtaking lanes, and acceleration/decelera-
tion lanes, including estimates of costs; and
(iii)  an evaluation of the present maintenance organization at the
provincial level, recommending organizational changes or
improvements.
8.       Throughout the program outlined above the study team shall prepare
lists of specialized equipment, including computer hardware and software,
required for the work together with specifications and bid documents and shall
assist the PTD in the evaluation of bids or quotations and award of contracts.
C. Follow-up to the Study
9.       When the study has been completed the PTD will continually update the
detailed road inventory and expand its scope to include local roads using its
personnel who have been trained through their work during the study.
10.      Since the detailed condition inventory will form a substantial part
of the activity to prepare engineering designs for pavement improvement works,
the PTD must proceed with the inventory of the network at such a rate that the
established improvement may be implemented without interruption due to a lack
of designs.
11.      The PTD may require additional services from foreign experts during
the follow-up phase of the study in order to implement the new system and/or
to expedite the detailed pavement condition inventory over the whole road
network of the province.
STAFF REQUIRED AND REPORTS TO BE SUBMITTED
A. Staff
12.      The study will be completed in about 15 months with a total of about
80 man-months, including about 12 man-months of foreign expertise to train
local engineers in the field of pavement evaluation and management systems,
data base management and engineering, and data processing. Additional man-
months from foreign technicians or engineers might be considered for using
automated equipment for assessment of road conditions, adapting foreign
computer programs to computers available in China, and for training Chinese
counterpart staff.



ANNEX 2
- 70 -                            Page 5
B. Reports
13.      The Study Team will be required to submit the following reports in
Chinese (Mandarin) and English:
(a) inception report after 2 months of start-up;
(b) progress report monthly;
(c) interim report after 8 months;
(d) draft final report after 14 months; and
(e) final report after 15 months.
V. FACILITIES AND SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE GOVERNMENT
14.      The PTD will assign a certain number of its personnel to work on the
Study Team on a full-time basis. Details regarding the number and qualifica-
tions of persons for such assignments will be determined on the basis of the
scope of work described in Section III.
15.      The PTD and the foreign experts will work out a^.d agree on a list of
the facilities needed, and the specialized equipment needed will be provided
by the foreign experts under their contract with the PTD on the basis of such
a list presented in the consultants' proposal.



Attachment A
- 71 -
FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS OF MONITORING EQUIPMENT
A. Road Roughness Meter
Functional Purpose. The meter makes standardized measurements of
road surface roughness, while travelling at highway speeds. Roughness causes
wear in a moving vehicle thus raising the operating costs, and influences
riding comfort, vehicle speed, and safety. Large economic benefits are
derived from the reduction of roughness. Standardization is achieved by
calibrating the instrumented vehicle to the International Roughness Index
(IRI) over selected road sections; the IRI is determined from the longitudinal
surface-profile of the sections using a profiling method.
Brief Specifications and Estimates
(a)  roughness sensor with automatic readout            $10,000 - 20,000
and recording, custom-mounted in clients'         ($30,000 - 60,000)
survey vehicle (or: supplied complete in
independent trailer);
(b)  road profile measuring device, or calibra-          (5,000 - 7,000
tion of roughness meter or surface level          ($15,000 - 20,000)
tolerance measurement (or: TRRL beam
profilometer)



ANNEX 3
- 72 -                          Page 1 of 2
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation
Start    Complete
Part A - Highway Construction
- Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                            08/01/88   09/15/88
- Bid period                                                12/15/88   03/15/89
- Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                             03/15/89   05/15/89
- Appoint supervision staff                                     -       05/15/89
- Select consultants for organization of
supervision of works and award contracts                    -      05/15/89
- Construction of Nanchang-Jiujiang highway                 06/15/89   05/15/92
- Construction of the connecting road                       06/30/90   05/15/92
Part B - Nanchang Bridge and Approach Roads
Construction
- Prequalification of contractors including
Bank review                                            08/10/88   10/10/88
- Bid period                                                01/01/89   03/01/89
- Receive and open bids, evaluation and receipt
by Bank of copy of Evaluation Report and
Government recommendations                             03/10/89   04/20/89
- Appoint supervision staff                                     -      04/15/89
- Select consultants f6r organization of
supervision of works and award contracts                    -      05/15/89
- Construction of bridge                                    06/15/89   06/15/92
Part C - Provision of Specialized Equipment for
Pavement Evaluation and Road Data Banks
- Prepare, with consultant assistance, equipment
lists, specifications and bid documents for
Bank review                                            07/01/91   10/31/91
- Invite bids                                               11/01/91   12/31/92
- Evaluate bids                                             12/31/91   01/31/92
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                              01/31/92   03/31/92
- Award contracts                                               -      04/01/92
- Delivery of equipment                                     05/01/92        -



- 73 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
Implementation
Start    Complete
Part D - Provision of Equipment for Paved Road
Strengthening and Betterment Program
- Prepare, with consultant assistance, equipment
lists, specifications and bid documents for
Bank review                                             07/01/91   10/31/91
- Invite bids                                               11/01/91   12/31/91
- Evaluate bids                                             12/31/91   01/31/92
- Review by Bank of evaluation report and
recommendations for award                               01/31/92   03/31/92
- Award contracts                                               -       04/01/92
- Delivery of equipment                                     05/01/92        -
Part   - Road and Urban Traffic Data Banks
- Preparation of system                                     02/01/89   05/31/89
- Collection of data                                        06/01/89   Continuous
- Preparation of software                                   01/01/90   09/30/90
- Identification of hardware needs                          06/01/89   09/01/89
- Preparation of specifications and bid
documents for computer systems                          10/01/89   12/31/89
- Invite bids                                                   -      01/01/90
- Evaluate bids                                             01/21/90   04/30/90
- Review by Bank                                                -      05/15/90
- Award contracts                                           07/01/90   08/31/90
- Testing and delivery                                      09/01/90        -
Part F - Consultng Services
- Assistance in supervision and training for
construction supervision                              01/01/89        -
- Assistance in pavement evaluation and preparation
of a pavement strengthening and betterment
program including equipment procurement                 10/01/90   11/31/90
- Assistance in setting up a road data bank
including equipment procurement                        03/01/89   09/01/90
- Assistance in training SPTD staff via studies,
seminars and workshops                                 05/01/90   05/01/91
Part G - Staff Training
- Selection of trainees                                         -       12/31/88
- Placement of trainees                                    02/01/89   Continuous



- 74 -                                   ANNEX 4
Page I of 2
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indices
Actual as   Reason for  Action
Esti-                % of       difference  to be
Project component                                    mated    Actual   estimated    (if any)   taken
Highway Construction
Contract awards         3
Earthworks completed (m3)
Paving completed (km)
Culverts (number)
Bridges (number)
Construction work completed
Maintenance certificate issued
Completion certificates issued
Final cost
Bridge Construction
Contract award
Foundation
Substructure
Superstructure
West approach bridge
East approach bridge
West approach road
East approach road
Completion certificate issued
Final cost
Supervision of Construction (man-months)
Consultant Services
Supervision of Construction
Consultants seiected
Consultants start work
Supervision organization, procedures
and systcai,s .igreed by JPTD and Bank
Supervision sLaff appointed
Office and laboratory buildings
constructed
Laboratory equipment in place
Supervision of construction in progress



75                                     ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Actual as   Reason for  Action
Esti-               X of       difference  to be
Project component                                  mated    Actual   estimated    (if any)   taken
Pavement Evaluation, Strengthening and
Road Data Bank
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Preparation of system
Collection of data
Software preparation
Identify hardware
Preparation of specification and
bid document for computer systeni
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Test hardware and software
Delivery
Paved and Urban Traffic Data Banks
Consultants selected
Consultants start work
Preparation of system
Collection of data
Software preparation
Identify hardware
Preparation of specification and
bid document for computer system
Invite bids
Evaluate bids
Award contracts
Test hardware and software
Delivery



- 76 -                            ANNEX 5
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL TRANSPORT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports
A.1 CHINA: Long-Term Development Issues and Options, World Bank,
September 1985
A.2 Statistical Yearbook of China, 1986-87, State Statistical Bureau,
People's Republic of China.
A.3 Statistical Yearbook of Jiangxi Province, 1986
B. General Reports and Studies on the Sector or Subsector
B.1 CHINA: Long-Term Development Issues and Options, Annex 6: The
Transport Sector, World Bank, September 1985
B.2 Transport Sector Paper, December 10, 1984, AEPTR
B.3 Basic Data or the Chinese Highway Subsector - Answers to Questions
(Chinese with English translation)
C. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.1 Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway Project. Feasibility Study Report, Highway
Survey and Design Institute of the Jiangxi Provincial Transport
Department, November 1986
C.2 Nai;hang Bridge Project. Feasibility Study Report, Nanchang Munici-
pal Planning and Design Institute, February 1987
C.3 Nanchang Bridge Project. Preliminary Design, Shanghai. Municipal
Engineering Design Institute (SMEDI), December 1987
C.4 Environmental Protection Report on the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway
Construction, Jiangxi Provincial Transport Department, January 1988
C.5 The Implementation Programs on Lard Acquisition and Resettlement and
Environmental Protection for the Nanchang-Jiujiang Highway by the
Jiangxi Provincial Transportation Department,-August 25, 1988
C.6 A Study of the Environmentai Consequences of the Nanchang Bridge
Project by the Urban and Rural Construction Bureau of Nanchang Muni-
cipality, Jiangxi Province, October 31, 1988



CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of The Provincial Transport Department
& the Highway Administration Bureau of That Department
Jiangxi
Provincial
Transport
Department
~~~~~~~~~~~WaeHihaInadTransportation                                     Transport dnstation
T espgn       Road & Bridge          WTrucking                                            Waterway          Vocatio n
Destignue        Company           TCmany              Breation         Company         Administration            on           Research
Highvway
Branch
Engineeri'ng      MnenceScientific                                                                              Policy              Bureau
Plannng  Adinistation Maintngnce         Finance         Mechanical        County Road        Research &       Imnplementation
PSanniong      AmiStration          Section            Section           Section           Sec.tion           Oesign         & Secretary
Highway
Maintenance
Section
Highway
Maintenance
Teams
02/03/88                                                                                                                                                ksr/w41376b



CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of The Nanchang Municipal Government
Nanchang
Municipal
Government
Public          Edcto               lnig           Environment          Building       Urban & Rural   Communication           Water          Commercial           Culture
Health          Eucat             Coaning           Protection       Administration     Constructionvncy Burau B                                                   Breau
BraBueuCmiteBureau                                             Bureau             BureauCosvac Bureau                                            Bureau
-J
unicipal  Municipal                  ~~~~PreparativeGadn
Muncpl            Mncpl             Municipal       Construction           Gas          Adiitain           Street Lamp       Public Traffic
Planning        Engineering      Administration      Office for         Company         Adepnstartient      Company           Company
Des:gn         Development        Department         Nanchang                           Dprmn
Institute        Company                               Bridge
CO)
02/03/88                                                                                                                                                ksr/w4 1376c



'WUHAN                                                                                          T.                           ss.n1Wh;1,            
H-angho 0                                                         /       ANHUI #
HUBEI                        /i                4                                     '                                   o
'.'     R- u,h-go  l'hsio9                                                                s 
0    lx   D.-                  /'.h-g~~~~~~~- ~0-"         -    ~ -
Wuong Yanrgzhoo       "        ~       ~         m.,.                             ZHEJIANG
- 2o~~~n~~Z~2K  ~~  Osutro    >  Yongroo  -  a'e$ong       LOWe            Derong           ""          ToHangbOoo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29
X,u0     ,eIrn                                                          -/                                      0090                           o.ro
of      JUAN ~~~~~~~~NNCCHINANG
~~~*\rTtflo&~~~~~~~~~~~~~                aonO                             JIANGXI  PROVINCIAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
Osrig sin~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
THUN'ANn(l              aono                     wno                              iunoar           "(HG                             V    Y PR        JC
-Orooheng  Otsauhen  <one9g                                                                            U..RA S OR           ET V R
T.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RPSDPOET
juncon
27-                                            N'~~ ~~~ .   A                                                                        Irport
,Cor  aa.b004J                                     A      ZH4'   le ot
7  Sn0~~~900,  GarrahooJIANrIioROIICIA
Choirgyr  SrongoW.-hPretGntor bROunarECT
t55 reuse, toot WtOOaO by ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~POFOEDPR ET
-na,-o a aoon* to - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Hih
sOaraisne or fle blOt Bet  Coatroar  Dtrgnan~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B'dg
On~~~~~~~h..Iu                                                                      h~-o 0n-ra- On-o,raW- ,
pot or too tronia flour br-a eta259 CHAC,~dl  54 C0
ww eflrerl or 8aO~~~~~~~~~~e    Ooangztrno   '                                  N.                                                   0~~NH.-  -d
*  GUANGDONG~~~~~~~~~~~~S-- .d
110                          ti.                                   te'                                'T'lig



IBRD 20267
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                         ANHUI ,
NANCHANG - JIUJIANG HIGHWAY                                                                          .>    \
Proposed Project:                                                                                                 H
Highway
_       Bridges
0     Interchonge                                                                           l           a
-~      Part of Project Not
Financed by The World Bank                                                          iJ           (
Jiujiang/4/                        
National Roads                                                               TangI\
Secondary Roods                                                       .
-'--i   Railroods
Rivers
Prefecture Boundories
- . - -  Province Boundories                                                     uon
SHANG/  /
0           l0         20          30                  +  Shizi}   J/        Xiko                       (        Duobao
KILOMETERS
A   e'on -                                \                      /
0           /                         ~~~~~~~~ ~~              ~~Jliootong   \< i
/                   >    Qi^7)/         g~~~~~~~~Jurshcn/
'.*.m. ..V I                                                   . I .Yus
/ ppYon~~~~~~~~~~~gx;uJ
"F     Tb. \6-I  &,
-~      ln A. IV,.  T.w
Cmrn TT    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ n 
L,S C TIT bcujiabu | T                                                                       Qiaoshe
0.T.  1w,w  C.ow.aS,,>,., A/\X//_
,,,,,.,',e~a4 - Wan,. ofehua
MN. POSI i Jioo                            NANICHANG
-    AONTNG~i~  tP' 
NEI MONGGOi BEIINO'        'EF.:.
_EW   N_ItWN  REPUKC             \/
oSI,JN,A ; , '   SHANDONG K O#RA
QINGHAI   .   e                                                           XinIon
G5ANSU, >  k ;HENAN   DJIANGSUJ
SICHUAN  . .   . -  'ZSNATGIJ          /NEW NAN  ANG- .                             NANG4--G
SICHUAN   I UE '~                                                                             SHIJ4N
'HUNAN,    -
GuIZHOU.        'UJMAN
TAIWAN                                                                                     Io
YUNNAN       '         '-- _) n,vN IYl
YUN -N - GUANGXI 'GUANGDONG
K-~~        - - ~tiONG FONG. U K
IUAF '-<~? /1                                                                                                                                                                         f     AAO, POR  T/                                                                         .  
4,L^O       MACAO,S PONT                                                   Nonchonq
')DEM  REP        P-, .Soo,odw/
IIA'[AND ..> *  -     TA~TO*.l s~-o. 1PHILIPPNES  /
JANUARY 1988



~ 1~ 0 1-I                                       JfY/ngzizhiou
- SWSW  00  V.e as
- - SW Sb PW .S                                                             I 
d w rw 1~~f Pd~/\                                                               . BRIDGfz
/   1Oingshon
GANJIANG                  PORT
s  \<0                                           V   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROAD R_
/\  \>    /  PORT  /   sz   1 1
Chongbhangling             ong hon    N     Rdj_
~~~~\~~~                              4      R               ____      etJ;-~;1e  
CHINA
JIANGXI PROVINCIAL HIGHWsAY PROJECT  
NANCHANG BRIDGE                                                              \          *5
Proposed Pra1eict 
--   Access Rood Construction                        M 0 NO 0  L I A/      ,   (lONING,f EV PEOPltS
r E  PEOPLEA
_    Nsew Bridge Construction                         - NEI MONGGOI *E4l<iBk        EPOFORA   
' -  '        _   _ tNESS'     Or       
-   Roods                                      QINGHAI         ' B z    SHANOONG       Rd
-4---  Roilroods                                     QINOA, . ,             -Hhh    /NS     JAPAN
*   1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_   Bridg s                     ;    ;     -            ss~~~~~~~~ ~         ~ ~~~ SNANONA'  Qingyuns
~   BrdgesSCHINAN 
NANCHANG BRIDGE                   -  .    UNA
Urbon Areos                                    'vUI
V UNNAN    -UAEJGX'
^ 1 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~-\                                         GUAhG uNGDdfNG ' 
Access Roado Contuto                         _   NA 0                                                    . t     A 
UPE~~~A   NAN  *  W.~~~CAOMPPOLET
-~~~~e S~~~~~~~NP  .4 LAO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~POFXOE
)OEM REP ~      kw        RPULI
Roods,,AA                                          r .      -  SHADe - O. .    K, OR
QINHAI,De'                     ,  lFsE
-4---+- Railroads                                             JAPAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
HENAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~             ~ .   .. JIAGS



