Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18032
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
BELIZE CITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(Loani No. 3667 - BEL)
June 17, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit 3
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  Belizean Dollar (BZ$)
EXCHANGE RATE
BZ$1.00 = US$0.50
US$1.00 = BZ$2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 =              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kin)           =              0.62 mile (ml)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =              0.386 square mile (sq ml)
I hectare (ha)              =              2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =              2,205 pounds (Ibs)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEL           -      Belize Electricity Limited
BTL           -      Belize Telecommunication Limited
BCC           -      Belize City Council
CARICOM       -      Caribbean Community
CDB           -      Central Business District
CDB           -      Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA          -      Canadian International Development Agency
CUBIC         -      Caribbean Unified Building Code
EIRR          -      Economic Intemal Rate of Return
GOB           -      Governnent of Belize
ICAO          -      International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB           -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
LCB           -      Local Competitive Bidding
M&O           -      Maintenance and Operation
MOW           -      Ministry of Work
MUD           -      Ministry of Housing, Urban Development,
Cooperatives, and Local Government
SBD           -      Sample Bidding Documents
SOE           -      Statement of Expenditures
SDA           -      Special Development Areas
TA            -      Technical Assistance
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
WASA          -      Water and Sewerage Authority
Vice President                              Shahid Javed Burki
Director, Country Management Unit           0. Kalantzopoulos
Director, Sector Management Unit            Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager                                Thakoor Persaud



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE ...........,i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................                   ,.ii
PART I: PROJECT 1MPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                      .1
A. Project Objectives..1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives                              ..2
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project               ..8
D. Project Sustainability.11
E. BankkPerformance.12
F. BorowrPrfonnance.mnce12
Gi. Assessment of Outcomee.13
H. Future Operationn.13
1. Key Lessons Learned.14
PART I:  STATISTICAL ANNEXES.1 ...................................................... I 5
Table 1: SummaryroffAssessments.15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .17
Tfable 3: ProjecttTimetable.17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementtion .19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .21
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .21
Table 7A: Project Costs .22
Table 7B: Project Financing.23
Table 8: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .23
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants .24
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .26
Table 11: Bank Resources: Mssions .27
Table 12. Impact Inldicators.28
APPENDIX A: AIDE-MEMOIRE .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
BELIZE CTY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3667-BEL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Belize City Infrastructure
Project in Belize, for which Loan 3667-BEL in the amount of US$20 million equivalent was
approved on November 23, 1993 and made effective on March 22, 1994.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, the original closing date. It is expected to be
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement is expected to take place on June 30, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by Thakoor Persaud, (Sr. Economist), and Garry L. Charlier
(Infrastructure Specialist), Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit (LCSFP), Latin
America and the Caribbean Region. Edgar Martinez (Consultant) assisted with the data
collection. The ICR was reviewed by Mrs. Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance, LCSFP), 0.
Kalantzopoulos (LCC3C), and Max Pulgar-Vidal, Sector Leader (LCSFP). At the time of
finalization of this ICR, the Bank had not received the Borrower's comments on the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission
in April 1998. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by providing input reflected in the mission's aide-memoire.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BELIZE
BELIZE CITY IN]FRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3667-BEL)
EVALUAtTION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Belize City Infrastructure Project (BCIP) originated from a desire of the Government
of Belize (GOB) to promote economic development in its largest, fast-growing city, where about
a third of the country's population live and where infrastructure inadequacies, primarily in the
drainage, traffic and coastal protection were recognized as a major health and economic
development bottleneck. The project was identified in December 1991 when the GOB sought
Bank assistance for rehabilitation of the Fort George area in Belize City to promote tourism, the
fastest growing sector of the economy. USAII funded the preparation of a strategic growth plan
in 1992. This plan recommended a combination of rehabilitation, consolidation and enhancement
works for the historic city, along with further outward expansion. The project was conceived as
the first phase of a three-stage infrastructure development program for Belize City.
A. Project Objectives
2.    As stated in the appraisal report, the objectives of the Project were to: (a) improve the
health and safety of the Belize City dwellers; (b) preserve the rich ecology of the city and its
environs, one of the most important economic assets of the country; (c) promote the economic
development of the City, in particular provide a boost to tourism, which is the fastest growing
industry in the country; and (d) strengthen the city capacity for infrastructure maintenance and
delivery of urban services.
3 .    It was expected that achievements of these objectives would be through: (a) rehabilitation
of the street network and traffic management; (b) improved drainage system, including canals and
creeks; (c) coastal protection and berth facilities; and (c) strengthening the City's capacity to
maintain its infrastructure, to manage its solid waste and to improve the delivery of urban
services.
4.    The project objectives do not show a clear and consistent overall sectoral underpinning
and there appears to be some incongruity between these objectives and the associated work
program. In several cases, there seems to be a rather tenuous relationship between the objectives
and project inputs and this makes it difficult to quantify and measure project achievements. A
clearer and more-sharply defined set of objectives, perhaps at a more modest scale, would have
been more useful for keeping the project on track and setting the stage for the follow-up phases
envisioned at appraisal.



ii
B. Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Overall, the Project outcome is rated marginally satisfactory. While the physical works
are of a good quality (after some start-up problems), and there are now significant improvements
in the city's infrastructure system (in traffic safety and management including pedestrian and bike
paths, flood reduction and improved drainage and sanitary works), the project falls short of
achieving meaningful results in two key related areas, operation and maintenance and institutional
and financial sustainability of the Belize City Council (BCC). Consequently, the prognosis on long
term impact and system sustainability is uncertain. Inclusion of a one-year contingency factor at
appraisal helped in assuring termination of the project works by the closing date even though
there was an implementation delay of about a year as compared with appraisal estimates.
6.    Final project costs are about US$31.4 M compared to US$28 M estimated at appraisal.
The 12% increase over initial cost estimates was borne by the GOB. Because of the need to
substitute, re-size and otherwise modify the project works as they were implemented (especially
after the possibility of follow-up phases became uncertain), this cost increase could be considered
as a result more of work modification rather than cost overruns due to inflation or design
inadequacies.
7.    Among the key factors which affected the performance of the Project were: (i) strong
Government support for the physical works; (ii) very good performance by the work supervision
consultant as well as by most of the contractors during implementation; (iii) weak implementation
arrangements and lack of clearly established implementation/operationalization guidelines for the
institutional strengthening component; and (iv) unusually high level of polarization (based mostly
on political factors) among the agencies/staff involved in implementation, which gave way to
undue influence of politics upon every-day project activities.
C. Summary of Findings
Sustainability.
8.    The sustainability of the Project is uncertain. Project sustainability critically depends on the
development and implementation of a comprehensive operation and maintenance program
(integrating technical as well as financial, operational, administrative, legal and tax collection
matters). While there was a clear understanding and legal agreement for BCC to assume
responsibility for the works after completion, it appears that there were several assumptions, but
no clear transition plan for this. As already indicated, many of the institutional strengthening
actions were only partially implemented or not implemented at all, and without sufficient
integration among them. Similarly, the equipment and staff needed to adequately maintain the
infrastructure works have not yet been delivered to the BCC. Some belated efforts are being
made by the GOB and BCC to resolve these issues (street cleaning and review of legal and
institutional framework and cost-effective maintenance alternatives). Unless the appropriate
follow-up operation and maintenance programs commence shortly, the project will not be
sustainable.



iii
Bank and Borrower Performance
9.    The Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory at several levels. In the early stage of
project preparation, Bank staff tried to prepare a comprehensive program. However, several
sectoral, institutional, financial and legal issues were not fully developed in line with Bank
requirements. While the preparation and appraisal teams conducted comprehensive reviews, these
were not fully reflected in the project structure (e.g., in component cost, administrative
arrangements, legal pre-requisites, etc.). There seems to have been a bias toward the physical
aspects which persisted throughout project implementation and became even more acute during
the final stages. To some degree, many legal, institutional and related issues were not apparent at
appraisal because both the BCC and the national government were from the same political party.
10.   The Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. While the Borrower was very
actively involved in project preparation and it passed most of the laws stipulated in the legal
agreements and provided the additional project funds, infighting among different groups ran
counter to project ownership principles without any unified long-term focus. These actions have
undermined the very good physical results obtained so far, and if they continue, they threaten
project sustainability.
D. Future Operations
11.   The Borrower has expressed interest in Bank assistance for the originally-planned follow-
up phase of project works. While there is need for additional complementary work, both in Belize
and other cities, such works should be considered only in the context of a much more clearly-
defined sector policy. Additionally, there would be need for several preparatory reform measures
(institutional, legal, financial), to ensure that the full benefits of the works are realized and there is
no repetition of the problems which this project faced.
E. K:ey Lessons Learned
12.   The main lessons to be drawn froim the implementation of this project include:
(i) A clearly-defined and articulated sectoral and institutional policy framework is
necessary to provide direction and rationale for project works, sharpen project goals,
set priorities, minimize conflicts and avoid ad-hoc and costly non-sustainable initiatives.
(ii) Incorporating the active participation of all stakeholders (including beneficiaries) at the
earliest stage of a proposed project and continuation of this practice during all
subsequent phases is a necessary condition for viable success and to build ownership.
Pressure to rush to achieve physical results should be tempered by appropriate
advances in the complementary legal, institutional, financial and related areas which are
necessary to assure sustainability of such works.



iv
(iii) More realism is needed about what can be achieved in terms of institutional
development and how. The institutional, administrative, financial, legal and related
framework should be very clearly-defined, understood and agreed-upon by all parties
and these should include clear procedures not only for the conceptual phase but also for
making them operational.
(iv) New investments should not be the answer to chronic deferred operation and
maintenance deficiencies. Without full appreciation of, and commitment to the need for
adequate operation and maintenance provisions (cost recovery, manpower and other
related needs), such projects will not be sustainable.
(v) If in the course of project implementation, it becomes clear that in spite of the best
efforts, project goals and sound technical practices are being overshadowed by
irreconcilable and extraneous conflicts and obstacles, project implementation should be
stopped, nor should there be any new sector lending activity until such conditions
change.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BIELIZE
BELIZE CITY INR7LASTRUCTURE PROJECT
(LOAN 3667-BEL)
PART I: PROJECT IMP]LEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    The Belize City Infrastructure Projecl: (BCIP) originated from a desire of the Government
of Belize-(GOB) to promote economic development in its largest, fast-growing city, where about
a third of the country's population live and where infrastructure inadequacies, primarily in the
drainage, traffic and sea defense systems were recognized as a major health and economic
development bottleneck. The project was identified in December 1991 when the GOB sought
Bank assistance for rehabilitation of the Fort George area in Belize City to promote tourism, the
fastest growing sector of the economy. USAID funded the preparation of a strategic growth plan
in 1992. This plan recommended a combination of rehabilitation, consolidation and enhancement
works for the historic city, along with further outward expansion. The project was conceived as
the first phase of a three-stage infrastructure development program for Belize City.
A. Project Objectives
2.    As stated in the appraisal report, the objectives of the Project were to: (a) improve the
health and safety of the Belize City dwellers; (b) preserve the rich ecology of the city and its
environs, one of the most important economic assets of the country; (c) promote the economic
development of the City, in particular provide a boost to tourism, which is the fastest growing
industry in the country; and (d) strengthen the city capacity for infrastructure maintenance and
delivery of urban services.
3.    It was expected that achievements of these objectives would be through: (a) rehabilitation
of the street network and traffic management; (b) improved drainage system, including canals and
creeks; (c) coastal protection and berth facilities; and (c) strengthening the City's capacity to
maintain its infrastructure, to manage its solid waste and to improve the delivery of urban
services.
4.    The Government of Belize was the Borrower and the Ministry of Works (MOW) was the
implementing agency for the infrastructure component. The Ministry of Housing, Urban
Development, Cooperatives and Local Government (MUD), with the assistance of the Belize City
Council (BCC), was responsible for the institutional strengthening component. The infrastructure
rehabilitation and improvement works were to be carried out by private contractors under the
supervision of consultants.
5.    Comments (, the Project Objectives. The project objectives do not show a clear and
consistent overall sectoral underpinning andi there appears to be some incongruity between these
objectives and the associated work program. For example, the capacity-building objective to
strengthen BCC is described in the SAR as a distinguishing feature of the project but had only
7.5% of the assigned ex-ante funding and ended up with an even lesser share (3.2%).



2
Additionally, it is oftentimes difficult to associate specific quantifiable and verifiable goals and
direct cause-to-effect relationships with many of the stated objectives, e.g., boosting tourism and
preserving the rich ecology of Belize through investments intended primarily for traffic
management, streets and drainage improvement works in low-income areas. The objectives seem
to be too broad, fragmented and not very focused. In several cases, there seems to be a rather
tenuous relationship between the objectives and project inputs and this makes it difficult to
quantify and measure project achievements. A clearer and more-sharply defined set of objectives,
perhaps at a more modest scale, would have been more useful for keeping the project on track
and setting the stage for the follow-up phases envisioned at appraisal.
6.    The scope of BCIP's institutional strengthening component as well as its coastal
protection work program as envisioned at appraisal were not realistic with respect to the budget
resources allocated. The project timetable was also not realistic. The 2 '/2 year implementation
period envisaged for the civil works at appraisal was too optimistic, influenced by the GOB's
strong desire to complete the physical infrastructure works early and very optimistic assumptions
about the time needed for implementation of the institutional, financial and legal components.
Because project sustainability depends upon both the quality of physical construction and
rehabilitation works as well as institutional strengthening, a longer implementation period of 3 ½/2
to 4 ½/2 years to get both areas operational would have been more realistic. Apart from improving
the institutional strengthening components, it also would have allowed for proper participation of
the beneficiaries in the process as well as for a more organized system of asset transfers to BCC
to help establish a viable operation and maintenance system.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
7.     Even in cases where the linkage between project objectives and inputs are much stronger,
it usually takes some time to observe clear and measurable results. Given (a) the relatively short
time since the physical works were completed, (b) the rather weak direct relationship between
project objectives and project components, and (c) the level of uncertainty surrounding
sustainability aspects of the project, it is not very easy to comment upon achievement of project
objectives. At this juncture, based upon discussions with residents, site visits and preliminary
statistics compiled by the consultant, it appears that the canal and drainage works have
significantly reduced the areas subjected to floods as well as the duration of such floods in most of
the city. Thus, if the system can be maintained in its current condition, it is very likely that the
project would have a positive impact vis-a-vis the objective of improving health conditions in
Belize. Preliminary statistics also indicate that the street and traffic improvement components
appear to be having a positive impact with respect to the objective of traffic safety, more
specifically, the incidence of traffic fatalities. With dedicated sidewalks, bike paths, street re-
orientation and similar works, traffic flows much more smoothly in the city. From the
rudimentary statistics (recorded by hand by the police department), it appears that while deaths
from traffic accidents are down, the faster traffic has also led to a rise in minor non-fatal
accidents.
8.    Regarding the project objectives of promoting economic development of the city by
boosting tourism and preserving the ecology of the area, it is difficult to measure the direct impact



3
of the project. While the works done in the tourist areas have been minimal (see cost tables), they
have improved the appearance of the hotel zone. Tourism to Belize has increased over the past
decade. However, the cause-effect relationship between such increases and the project works
(both in the tourist and poor areas), is not very clear.
9.    As for the objective of strengthening the BCC's capacity for infrastructure maintenance
and service delivery, this has not occurred so far, even though the project has established a good
base to facilitate such capacity and there is still the potential for the GOB and the BCC to achieve
this.
10.   Other project objectives identified at appraisal involved protection of the city's rich
environment (including the enhancement of its natural defenses: the mangrove forest) and
poverty alleviation with the core infrastructure improvements to be targeted at the poor sections
of the city. Regarding the protection of the city's environment, the project's success in achieving
this goal has been negligible. The infrastructure work package was not in line with such a goal,
and the weak municipal strengthening achieved did not allow for significant development of
environmental regulatory and management caLpabilities. While the project works were in various
sections of the city, including some poor areas, its improvements benefited all strata of the urban
population, including the poor, especially with respect to the street improvements (which are
generally used by the poor pedestrians and cyclists), and the sanitary improvements in their
neighborhoods.
11.   Physical Works. In general, the pro ject works seem to have been well-conceived and
designed, with some rather innovative ways of overcoming space constraints, difficult
geographical, geological and hydrological conditions and also to compensate for possible misuse
of the infrastructure works by the beneficiaries. Given that this project was conceived and
designed as a multi-stage investment progrann, it is commendable that even without the originally-
envisaged follow-up stages, the project works have been successful in reducing flood damages,
improving traffic flows and generally improving the living conditions in the city, albeit with some
addition to the original budget. When various readjustments and works repackaging had to be
done (especially after it was recognized that the next stage would not immediately follow), some
trade-off became necessary (e.g., channeling and aligning instead of relining a canal or switching
one section of works with another).
12.   Details on the main physical BCIP works are summarized in the Table 1 below. BCIP
rehabilitated about 22 kilometers of major urban streets (including improved pavement and
intersections, traffic signalization system, improved street drainage and widened sidewalk for
pedestrian as well as bicycle lanes). Most of the street upgrading works provides for continuous
circulation loops with through-traffic linkages to bypass the city center. Under the drainage work
category, BCIP also rehabilitated more than 4.0 km of canals and creeks (including dredging,
lining and widening, as well as improving interconnections, crossings and outfalls), and re-
established a continuous-flow drainage system. All the physical work were carried out over a 3'/2-
year period (vs 2/2 originally planned, with December 31, 1996 as the original completion date).
The data show that the physical works have been largely implemented as originally envisaged
although there were some adjustments to the scope of work (which included complementary
investments in the street network and traffic management, drainage system improvements), with a
significant reduction of the coastal/water-front protection sub-category.



4
13.   With some initial start-up problems, most of the work was planned and implemented with
sound technical criteria. However, there is a pedestrian bridge which, at a cost of US$ 0.62M,
generated some controversy because of its cost, questions about its priority vis-a-vis other needs
and underutilization by target beneficiaries.
Table Li: Summary of Project Physical Outputs
Outcome                     Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage
estimate          estimate           (b/a)
____________________________________(a)               (b)
A- Accident Prevention & Traffic Management
. Street rehabilitation (including            16.2 km            22.7 km          140%
pavement, roadside drainage and curb)
. Pedestrian & Cyclist Facilities              7.2 km             8.0 km          111%
. Environmental Improvements (paving)                            4,185 rn2            _
S/Total CostA (US$ Million)          10.00              19.58          196%
B- Drainage, Canal/Creek hIprovement
. Dredging Collet Canal and Outfall          1, 1oo r3n        14,330 m3          130%
. Lined Canal                                3,155 m             3,365 m          107%
Open Ditch                                                       330 m
. Bridges (Pedestrian and/or Vehicles)           13 U                13 U          100%
S/Total Cost B (US$ Million)          8.40                7.62          91%
C- Waterfront Facilities (seawalls)                                   610m
S/Total Cost C (US$ Million)          1.60                0.57          36%
TOTAL COST * (US$ million)             20.00              27.78          139%
(*) Supervision contract cost not included (US$3.53 million actual compared to US$ 1.2 million planned).
14.   With these physical accomplishments, BCIP has substantially transformed and improved
the cityscape of Belize City. In non-formal interviews with beneficiaries, officials and visitors
about the pre- and post-project situations, most described the difference as the one between
"night and day." Street rehabilitationlimprovement and traffic management interventions have had
a very pronounced beneficial impact upon the road safety of all users (especially students, other
pedestrians and cyclists), with notable reduction in traffic fatalities and traffic congestion. In spite
of the low land level and flat terrain, the significantly-improved storm-water drainage system
allows quick drainage of normal runoff and has transformed the city from an area flooded for days
or even weeks during the rainy seasons to one where floods last only a few hours. In addition, a



5
much better-working and enhanced drainage system also allows for adequate flushing of canal
waters, thus reducing the problems of foul-smielling water and unsanitary conditions and diseases
associated with such conditions.
15.   Belize City Institutional Strengthening. Notwithstanding the positive results of
physical works, many of the key complementary institutional, legal and financial actions under the
project, as well as the sustainable operation and maintenance of the infrastructure works, face
serious obstacles. For various reasons, there appears to be an extremely high level of personal and
political polarization among several key participants in the project. This has weakened the degree
of cooperation and commitment needed for jointly seeking mutually-beneficial solutions to several
important project challenges, chief among which is the future viability of the infrastructure
investments and their continued maintenance, operation and expansion.
16.    On the TA implemented by MUD/BCC, while there were also various accomplishments,
their full utility and impact can only be realized if the necessary follow-up actions are taken. Thus,
while it is true that the GOB was very responsive in complying with most of the relevant
institutional reform actions stipulated in the Loan and Subsidiary Agreements, these actions, for
the most part only involved parliamentary or similar legal approval. In some respects, the current
situation is worse now than it was originally because the old arrangements have been replaced by
new but non-operational ones. The legal changes are necessary but not sufficient conditions for
achieving the institutional, development and related reforms envisioned at appraisal.
17.   In the spirit of decentralization, one area that should have been included in the legal
reform package during appraisal is the revision of the BCC Act of 1895. As it now stands, there
are several key functions (all staff appointments, tax rate modification, etc.) which are still subject
to GOB approval. Also, the mayor is elected (peer selection) for renewable one-year terms. This
raises several accountability, continuity and sectoral consistency issues. To some degree, this
situation highlights the lack of a clear sector policy definition and the complication it can cause in
its absence.
18.   Land Registry ("Cadastre"): The situation here could be potentially very serious for
the BCC, the GOB and the city residents. This is because, the GOB has already passed the law
requiring that property be assessed on the basis of market (rather than equivalent rental) value.
However, because of difficulty in agreeing on the most suitable consultant to provide the
information needed to implement the new law, the BCC continues to use the old assessment
system based on rental equivalent. The absence of a specified transition period in the law is also
causing some confusion about which tax regime is legal at this time. The legality of this approach
is now being challenged in court and if it is found that the BCC cannot utilize the old system, it
would not be able to use the new one since the main parties still cannot agree on a consultant to
carry out the land-registry study and there is no operational system in place. This situation (as
well as lack of action to transfer administration responsibility to BCC for the liquor, business and
related taxes) is one of non-compliance with a Bank legal agreement. The follow-up step of
making the new law operational remains in limbo, primarily because of the absence of any clear
documentation on how to proceed, no funding provisions or any in-depth analysis of several
administrative implications.



6
19.   BCC Finances: TA actions implemented under the project helped to establish several key
positions (City Manager, City Engineer, City Financial Manager), and equip various departments
of BCC. They also helped immensely in getting BCC more toward an automated financial system.
However, they fell short of improving the BCC's finances and correcting many serious
deficiencies in the management of taxes and licenses identified at appraisal. The combined effects
of poor record keeping and the absence of an appropriate land registry system have led to less
than projected income from taxes. At appraisal, it was estimated that with the reform measures in
place, tax revenue would increase significantly. The following table shows the projected and
actual figures.
Table L2: BCC Tax Revenue
,,, ,O    .o                         ...... .....   . .. , ,    ....................... ...........    .........
.... ....... ..........E E...   i..........E   0-.-E- .       ..............   ..  E E    
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... . .    . ......  i..iE. E::   .::   : 1 - 1   - -   IER i.EiRR. iEE..........   ER   i ..... .. .. .. . .. .. .. .
(est)            (proj)            (actual)
---------------------(BZ$M)-
Property                          4.2               18.5               3.1
Vehicle Registration              NA                0.9                NA
Fines                             NA                0.6                 1.7
Other                             NA               0.03                0.2
20.   It appears that during appraisal, in the absence of reliable figures, several estimates and
assumptions were made, many of which do not now appear very accurate and so they cannot be
compared to the actual ICR mission figures. In the case of property taxes, for example, during
appraisal, it was estimated that about BZ$ 4.2 million was collected for 1994. However, figures
from the BCC financial statement for FY 1998 show that four years later, only BZ$ 3.1 was being
collected. In terms of the projected tax earning figure for 1998, at BZ$ 18.5, this is way beyond
the actual figures and while they do not appear to be unreasonable estimates, the main elements of
the property tax system are still missing so no comparison can be made at this time. The
following table summarizes the income and expenditure situation of the BCC over the past four
years (with projections for FY 98).



7
Table I.3: Summary of BCC Income and Expenditure
............ ......  .. ..............  .. ...    ....... ..-             .   ..    ............-: - ..    ..... ..... 
.iTYPEOFTAX  FY94          FY95          ~~~~FY96    [     Y97         FY98
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............  ....... .,,........  . j.. ......,...-j:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........                ....... ... ................................   ............ .. .... :::..
Revenues                                               (BZ$m)
1. Own Income               4.1            5.3             5.0            6.2           6.8
2. Subventions               1.4            1.1            1.1             1.1          1.7
Total Income                 5.5            6.4            6.1            7.3           8.5
Total Expenditures           5.6            6.4            6.1            7.4           8.5
21.   As the table above shows, subventions have been 15-25 % of BCC's income since 1994.
While the BCC has increased its own income somewhat (in nominal terms), it has not made the
substantial changes envisaged at appraisal. If the project works are to be well maintained, the
BCC has to obtain the funds needed for such maintenance. Unless it can increase its subvention
receipts or improve its tax collection, there is a significant risk that within a short time, these
works may begin to fail due to lack of needed maintenance. An ironic element here is that there is
enough evidence to indicate that the city can, collect much more of its current tax revenue
(through improved collection efficiency, an updated property registry and updated valuation).
Indicators are that such amounts would most likely be enough to not only operate and maintain its
present stock of infrastructure, but also to extend it over time. Almost all citizens recognize the
positive element of the project works, and property values are generally higher because of the
benefits. Still, only about 45-50% of those on the tax rolls are paying their taxes which can only
be adjusted in five-year intervals. In an environment of inflation, this is another issue which should
have been addressed in the reform package. Unless the new property tax system is put into
operation as soon as possible, it could put the BCC as well as the entire project works in
jeopardy.
22.   Economic Analysis. The appraisal report contains the economic analysis in a single
package and internal economic rate of retunri (IERR) for a combination of the subcomponents of
the project. The overall IERR for the project was estimated at 33%. Additionally, there were
several health and related indicators which wvere counted as project benefits.
23.   The analysis was done for both the Phase I and II works as an integrated package since it
was believed that the maximum project benefits would arise from the full program. Given that the
actual works under this loan form only a subset of the originally-planned package and there were
several changes to what was originally defined as the Phase I works, an ex-post one-to-one
comparison is not feasible. In the absence of basic data at appraisal, the benefits analyses
depended upon several key base-year assumptions (e.g., on property values, number of accidents,
tourist nights, etc.), which the ICR mission was unable to verify or which (e.g., base-year
accidents), were different from those in the appraisal report. Also, while the methodology used in
computing the IERR was logical and very thorough, it is not clear that it avoided several possible



8
double-counting factors. For example, assumptions about expected property value increases were
specifically related to the improved drainage system. However, because of the inter-relatedness of
the works and their location, it may be that such increases would reflect a composite of
improvements in drainage, improved traffic access, improved health conditions, etc. Similarly, for
tourism, it was assumed that the incremental revenues associated with tourism in Belize City
would also be incremental to the country, a fact which may or may not be true. Additionally, the
impact of other demand growth factors in both property values and in tourism flows should also
have been taken into account so as not to overstate the project impact.
24.   Because of the wide range of complications discussed above and the absence of any
current reliable data on: (a) which properties are benefiting and to what extent;, (b) current
property values; (c) reliable statistics on accidents and vehicle registration; (d) incremental tourist
stays and expenditures; and (e) the fact that the project has just been completed and its impact
may not yet have been fully taken into account within the affected areas, an IERR was not
recalculated for the project. On a very gross basis, if it is assumed that there are about 16, 000
housing units in Belize City and that about 66% (10,560) of them would benefit from the works,
this translates to about US$3,150 per unit. Very rough surveys of average unit rental fees show
that many of these nearly doubled between 1991 and 1997. Of course, not all of such increases
can be attributed to the project alone. Similarly, with only minimal investments along the seawall,
the BCC was able to increase its property taxes by 30% over a two-year period without facing
resistance from homeowners.
25.   Capital cost and Financing Plan. In June 1998, at full completion of the project, total
project costs amount to US$33.25 million, 19% higher than appraisal estimates of US$28.0
million. Physical works account for US$3 1.3 M (an increase of US$ 10.1 or 48% compared to
appraisal estimates) while TA related activities amount for only US$1.05 (50% lower than
appraisal figures). GOB contributed more than its originally-planned share (US$13.25 million,
compared to appraisal estimates of US$8.0 million). In the end, after a one-year delay and
changes in the TA allocation, especially with respect to the maintenance equipment during
implementation, all parties met or exceeded their funding commitments agreed at appraisal.
Details on capital costs and financing are presented in Tables 7A and 7B.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
26.   Overall, the infrastructure works of the Project were implemented with a delay of about a
year. While the original closing date of December 31, 1997 remained unchanged during
implementation, the completion of the civil works initially planned for December 31, 1996,
coincided with the closing date. In general, the implementation phase of the physical works went
well with the contractors, the consultants and the MOW developing a good relationship after
overcoming various start-up problems. These problems included a rather laborious learning
process for the main contractor, and to a lesser extent, for the consultant. This initially resulted
in many corrections of defective works. Cancellation and later redefinition of a modified scope
of work for a first addendum to the contractor's contract occurred after owners refused to sell the
land needed for the coastal protection and boardwalk construction work and this component had
to be scaled back.



9
27.   The physical works have been in general adequately conceived, designed and implemented
as originally planned. In order to make the system operational without depending upon follow-up
stages, various readjustments and works repackaging were necessary and some trade-offs had to
be made. Also, as evidence of beneficiary misuse of some works became apparent (parking on
drainage covers and breaking them, blocking of culverts with trash and discarded plastic
containers) several design modifications 'became necessary. It appears that the reasons for such
changes could have been more widely publicized and discussed among the primary stakeholders
without affecting the pace of project implementation. Also, a more active beneficiary education
program could have been used to help resolve such problems.
28.   As a general rule, institution-strengthening components are more difficult to implement
than physical works. In this project, the institutional strengthening component lacked a
comprehensive and coherent design, as well as an adequate implementation mechanism. The
original TA and equipment component were not as significant a share (some 7.5% at appraisal) of
the total cost as they should have been. A further 50% reduction in the original budget allocation
(to finance additional infrastructure works) exacerbated this situation and contributed to the poor
performance of this component. While it can be argued that a lack of consensus and delays in
initiating some of the TA activities led to this reduction, this argument does not detract from the
fact that there was need for a greater focus on this component, especially with respect to
institutional strengthening and complementary basic maintenance equipment as key elements in
the package. It is true that the GOB complied with about 90% of the detailed institutional reform
actions stipulated in the Loan and Subsicliary Agreements, but for the most part they only involve
parliamentary or simiiar legal approval. Because of the lack of cooperation among key
participants in the project, the necessary follow-up actions to these measures did not materialize,
leaving most of these reform measures e:nvisaged at appraisal with negligible results.
29.   After the project was prepared, the national government changed and the BCC and the
GOB were governed by different political parties. This was given as a possible reason for many
of the current conflicts. In such a strained environment, weak ex-ante implementation
arrangements and the lack of clearly estaLblished implementation guidelines apparently gave ways
to partisan politics to the detriment of achieving project objectives.
30.   Implementation arrangements: The actors involved were: (a) the Ministry of Economic
Development (MED); (b) the Ministry of Finance (MOF); the Ministry of Home Affairs, Housing,
Urban Development and Cooperatives (VIUD); the Ministry of Works (MOW); the Belize City
Council (BCC) and the community. MOW had responsibility for implementation of the physical
works (via contractors) while MED and MOF looked at both loan-management issues, and with
the MUD and the BCC, at some TA activities. Apart from several TA and other reform measures,
the BCC also had responsibility for taking over the completed works from MOW and operating
and maintaining them as part of its assets. A project implementation unit (PIU) existed with a
coordinator within the MUD but this was a bit of a misnomer since it was only for the TA aspects
of the project. The MOW had its chief engineer as coordinator. Apart from assignment of the
traffic, drainage and coastal protection tasks to MOW and the TA and reform ones to MUD and
BCC, the appraisal document was not very clear on the overall project coordination functions or
mechanisms for conflict resolution. Notwithstanding the above, there has been a steering



10
committee, chaired by the MUD Minister, as well as a Cabinet Sub-Committee, appointed by the
Cabinet and chaired by the MUD Minister, to address issues beyond the Steering Committee.
31.   During implementation, the originally-envisaged project coordination mechanism was not
enough to avoid Cabinet feuds and it proved to be an inadequate forum for definitive resolution of
many implementation issues. It appeared that there were some areas of inter-institutional
disagreements arising from both the initial technical start-up problems as well as the unclear roles
ofBCC and MUD in their interaction with MOW.: While BCC and MUD may have participated
in many of the progress meetings, their perception was that they were oftentimes not allowed to
provide important input to MOW during key decision-making stages about the works.
Consequently, several works were either not done as expected by these entities or in some cases,
they had to be redone or later modified. Given the nature and scope of the works, design changes
were to be expected; however, the process and its ancillary activities could apparently have been
done with greater transparency of the underlying rationale and, perhaps with more recognition of,
and dialogue with other key actors.
32.   While each of the implementing group tried to carry out its respective component, it
appeared that there was need for greater focus upon their inter-relatedness and also greater
emphasis upon both individual as well as inter-group responsibilities, roles and guidelines, along
with the possible ramifications. A clearer third-party mechanism for internal arbitration/
resolution of issues and more active Bank interventions during key junctures could also have
helped in avoiding delays and other difficulties during project implementation and later stages.
33.   Government Support. Notwithstanding the above coordination issues, BCIP's
substantial achievements in the infrastructure component benefited largely from GOB's strong
support and commitment to undertake the needed rehabilitation works. This level of commitment
is well reflected in the more-than-65% increase in GOB's financial contribution to the project,
mostly in complementary works to make operational the investment package under Phase I. This
continuous support for the Project at the MOW level has been also a key factor in BCIP's overall
physical success. However, the lack of collaboration between GOB (MOW,MUD) and BCC
created serious distractions, delays and shortcomings, specifically with respect to the institutional
strengthening and operation and maintenance component.
34.   Consultant/Contractors Performance. It's a commonly shared perception among
officials involved in the project's implementation that, after some start-up adjustments, the high
level of professionalism and performance of the engineering consultant firm has been a key
success factor in achieving the project's physical targets. The professional respect enjoyed by the
consultant from all the parties and its valuable contract management capacity and experience have
also been instrumental in getting a good quality work. Performance of the three contractors
contracted under BCIP has been uneven. A-fter having faced start-up problems, the performance
of the international contractor (the largest in value terms) proved satisfactory. One of the local
contractors performed very well while results have been poorly rated with respect to the other.
35.   Bank Procurement, Disbursement and Supervision. As applied to work contracts
under BCIP, the Bank's procurement guidelines regarding performance security, defects liability
or maintenance period and provisional/final acceptance practices, were questioned both by MOW
and the Consultant. Specifically, Bank clauses governing these areas were regarded as an



11
impediment limiting the borrower and consultant leverage in getting full defects correction and
full compliance with design standards by the contractors. This has been the case to some extent
with the international contractor who, while meeting Bank requirements, still left some defects
uncorrected. GOB's comments also covered ICBALCB guidelines. MOW officials claim that the
Bank was inflexible in enforcing its guidelines with respect to threshold requirements to allow
locals to bid. However, at the same time, the Bank has been very flexible in applying its
Procurement guidelines and allowing for addenda to already-awarded contracts (for both, works
and supervision), well above usual Bank thresholds. Disbursement responsiveness from the Bank
was commended by the GOB which felt that this was a very positive factor in support of the
project's implementation pace.
36.   As shown in Table 11 of the Statistical Annexes, the Bank conducted 8 project
supervision missions between March 1993 and April 1998. Evidence shows that the Bank did not
conduct the full Mid-term Review as envisaged at appraisal. The agreed annual review of the
yearly investments program and the recurrent expenditures estimated by the Borrower and BCC
in Belize City for each following fiscal year did not take place either. A more active Bank
intervention in key junctures, with supervision missions staffed with experts in institutional and
financial issues could have also helped in avoiding delays and other difficulties during project
implementation.
D. Project Sustainability
37.   Project sustanilability critically depends on BCC's capacity to develop and implement an
appropriate operation and maintenance program (routine and periodic) for the physical assets
(streets, roadside drainage, canal/creek and outfalls,) as well as its institutional strengthening
(financial, operational, administrative, legal and tax collection). Other areas of concern which
need attention include BCC's enforcement of restoration rules in utility street works (especially
WASA), enforcement of traffic and parking regulations, more intensive public education
campaign on trash disposal, traffic safety and tax education. As already indicated, many of these
actions were only partially implemented o0r not implemented at all, and without sufficient overall
vision. Consequently, sustainability of the project is uncertain and will remain so unless the
necessary follow-up operation and maintenance programs are carried out.
38.   Such a comprehensive operation and maintenance plan (O&M) was not developed during
implementation, illustrating the low level of priority accorded to it. While there was a clear
understanding and legal agreement for BCC to assume responsibility for the works after they are
completed, it appears that there were several assumptions, but no clear transition plan for this. A
long list of equipment and related facilities for BCC was reduced for various reasons and BCC is
claiming that it cannot assume responsibility for the O&M task without the necessary equipment.
As the project comes to a close, there is need for quick BCC action in cleaning up the streets of
debris and sand which block the drainage pipes taking surface water into the drains and in flushing
and cleaning the drainage system. The BCC and MOW have agreed to work with the consultant
to conduct a review of the most cost-effective long-term system to be used for such maintenance
and proceed with the recommended systemn. Details of both the short-term clean-up program, as
well as the proposed long-term one, as prepared jointly by BCC and MOW, are being sent to the
Bank and are expected to take place shortly.



12
E. Bank Performance
39.   Bank performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was uneven. It was
satisfactory during identification and preparation in terms of responsiveness to client's request and
needs for assistance in improving inadequate economic and social urban infrastructure. A
comprehensive feasibility study and multi-phase investment program conducted under a Bank
financed PPF served as a basis for BCIP's design. However, Bank performance at appraisal was
deficient in four important respects: (i) lack of design of a more comprehensive and coherent
framework as well as an adequate implementation and operationalization mechanism for the
institutional strengthening; (ii) inadequate definition of studies and programs needed to ensure
sustainability; (iii) unrealistic timetable for project implementation, particularly for execution of
works and components requiring beneficiary participation and prior institutional/policy changes;
(iv) inaccurate assessment of the level of the high risk associated with implementation, particularly
with respect to the institutional component and multiple-agency interaction. To a large extent, the
fact that both the GOB and the BCC were governed by the same political party caused
preparation teams to overlook several areas of potential conflict.
40.   On the whole, Bank performance with respect to supervision was also deficient. Eight
supervision missions took place over the four year implementation period. It is true that in such a
polarized environment, each group involved in the BCIP implementation appeared bent upon
getting Bank support for its position and as a result, there were claims of the Bank being too rigid
or too lax, depending upon who is making the claim. Nevertheless, there is a perception that the
Bank, to some extent, did not place sufficient emphasis in a timely manner upon several key
implementation issues related to the physical works and especially to the institutional component.
The Bank failed to clarify many necessary follow-up steps to address or to correct these
unforeseen problems, and it took or sanctioned what was regarded as some rather arbitrary
actions (e.g., in approving the overpass bridge and in reducing the TA component), which also
contributed to feuds over the project implementation. Also, the change of task manager less than
six months before project completion caused confusion about whom to contact for assistance.
F. Borrower Performance
41.   Overall Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. While the Borrower was actively
involved in project preparation and the physical works went well, changes in the administration
after the 1993 election reduced the level of cooperation needed for successful implementation of
the TA and institutional components and continued project sustainability.
42.    The Borrower showed leadership in carrying out a civil works package that maximized
the immediate benefits for Belize City. This level of commitment is best illustrated by the much-
higher-than-agreed level of Government counterpart funding allocated to the project. But with
respect to the institutional strengthening element, both the Central and Municipal administrations
responsible for its implementation failed to find ways of transcending partisan politics to ensure
proper operationalization of the various reforms and decentralization measures agreed upon at
appraisal. While in terms of the letter of the legal covenants, the Borrower's performance was
impressive (as to the number of bills approved and administrative directives enacted), in their
spirit, very little eventually materialized, mainly because of a weakened degree of cooperation and
commitment among the parties involved to jointly seek mutually-beneficial solutions and proper



13
follow-up actions. As a result, the institutional strengthening objectives were not met and unless
the recently-agreed initiatives bear fruilt, project sustainability remains uncertain.
G. Assessment of Outcome
43.   Overall, the project is rated as marginally satisfactory. The physical works is rated
satisfactory since the project substantially achieved most of its physical objectives, albeit with
delays due partly to originally unrealistic timetables. The institutional strengthening component is
rated unsatisfactory. Notwithstanding the positive results in the works component and in the
passage of several laws and regulations, the project failed to put in place or to operationalize
many important complementary institutional, legal and financial actions to ensure a viable
operation and maintenance of the physical assets, all of which constitute key elements of any
successful outcome of the project. As a consequence, sustainability is uncertain and will remain
so unless GOB and BCC find ways of transcending partisan politics to ensure proper
operationalization of the various key reforms and decentralization measures at the municipal level.
GOB's evaluation of the outcome of the Project is included as Appendix B. Up to the time of
finalization of this ICR neither the Borrower's comments nor its contribution to the ICR was
received.
II. Future Operation
44.   It is a major concern that contiinued inaction and irreconcilable stances on at least three
key outstanding issues (i-e., Land Regiistry, Operationalization of Tax Law, and Operation and
Maintenance) could put the BCC in financial jeopardy and adversely affect the finances of the
Government of Belize, or put the entire project works in jeopardy in a worst case scenario.
Associated loss of revenue for the City Council combined with additional operation and
maintenance costs for the new investm.ents and the current non-receipt by the BCC of
Government subventions, could very vvell lead to GOB having to assume the cost of all basic
function of the city.
45.   In any future sector activity the Bank should work with the GOB and BCC to resolve
these pending issues. To this end, the Bank should insist that the GOB/BCC jointly prepare and
submit an action plan showing how the transition period is to be handled, along with a schedule
(with dates) for having the new propeity tax law operational and enforced. This action plan
should include performance indicators to monitor the sustainability of project results.
46.   The possibility of follow-up operations for the Phase II investment program (in Belize City
and in other secondary cities) would depend upon final resolution of the outstanding issues
surrounding the current operation. Apart from compliance with the institutional and related issues
mentioned above, there will be need for several clear sector policy agreements with the GOB in
such areas as a decentralization policy, municipal reform measures to assure continuity of
leadership, greater autonomy, private sector participation, etc. Subsidy, appropriate technology,
cost recovery and related issues would also need to be resolved in light of weak municipal and
GOB finances.



14
47.   While future involvement of the Bank in the urban development sector of Belize could
assist in its development goals, such participation would have to be considered in light of actions
taken by the GOB and BCC to address the outstanding issues of the first operation and to take up
front actions in the above-mentioned areas.
I. Key Lessons Learned
48.   The lessons to be drawn from the implementation of this project include:
(i) A clearly-defined and articulated sectoral and institutional policy framework is
necessary to provide direction and rationale for project works, sharpen project goals,
set priorities, minimize conflicts and avoid ad-hoc and costly non-sustainable initiatives.
(ii) Incorporating the active participation of all stakeholders (including beneficiaries) at the
earliest stage of a proposed project and continuation of this practice during all
subsequent phases is a necessary condition for viable success and to build ownership.
Pressure to rush to achieve physical results should be tempered by appropriate
advances in the complementary legal, institutional, financial and related areas which are
necessary to assure sustainability of such works.
(iii) More realism is needed about what can be achieved in terms of institutional
development and how. The institutional, administrative, financial, legal and related
framework should be very clearly-defined, understood and agreed-upon by all parties
and these should include clear procedures not only for the conceptual phase but also for
making them operational.
(iv) New investments should not be the answer to chronic deferred operation and
maintenance deficiencies. Without full appreciation of, and commitment to the need for
adequate operation and maintenance provisions (cost recovery, manpower and other
related needs), such projects will not be sustainable.
(v) If in the course of project implementation, it becomes clear that in spite of the best
efforts, project goals and sound technical practices are being overshadowed by
irreconcilable and extraneous conflicts and obstacles, project implementation should be
stopped nor should there be any new sector lending activity until such conditions
change.



15
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial        Negligible       Not applicable
()              ()               ()                (vi)
Macro Policies                       E               E                El
Sector Policies                     E                E                El
Financial Objectives                 E               E                El
Institutional Development            El                               El                I]
Physical Objectives                                  El a                                El
Poverty Reduction                    [                                El                 El
Gender Issues                       []               a                Cl                IB
Other Social Objectives             E                a                El
Environmental Objectives            I                                 El                 El
Public Sector Mar -gement            Cl                               El                 Li
Private Sector Development          I                a                El
Other (specify)                      E                 l              El                EB
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(V)                       (V)                        (V)
Physical Works                      E                         El
Institutional                       E                         El
Highly
C.          Bank Performance            satisfactory          Satisfactorv                Deficient
(/)                      (V)                        (V')
Identification                       E                        IA                        El
Preparation Assistance                3El                                                El
Appraisal                            ElE                                                IA
Supervision                                                   El                        I I



16
(continued)
Hihghlv
D.         Borrower Performance             satisfactorv    Satisfactory    Deficient
(1)            (1)            (V)
Preparation                          5                             Ea
Implementation                       a              El
Covenant Compliance                  ]                            I]
Operation (if
applicable)
Highly                                           Highly
E.         Assessment of             satisfactory   Satisfactorv  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Outcome                           (v/)            C')            (6)                (i/)
Physical Works                     5               0               E                E
Institutional                      v               5               0                E



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
<Not Applicable)
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           Date planned        Date actual/
l  ____________________  latest estimates
Identification (executive Project Summary)    12/91              12/91
Preparation                                                      5/4/92
Appraisal                                     5/931             5/22/93
Negotiation                                  10/18/93           10/18/93
Board presentation                            1/942             11/23/93
Signing                                     12/22/93            12/22/93
Effectiveness                                 4/943             3/22/94
Project completion                                              12/31/97
Loan closiiig                                12/31/97           12/31/97
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
l___________________________ |FY 1994         FY 1995       FY 1996    FY 1997       FY1998
Appraisal estimate                  2.0         6.20         14.0        20.0
Actual                             2.22         6.90         10.63       16.94        20.00
Actual as % of estimate            1 11%/o     111%          76%         85%
Date of final disbursement                                                        June 30, 1998
'As per Initial Executive Project Summary
2 As per Initial Executive Project Summary
3As per Memorandum to the President



18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Street and Traffic Management
Work Package    Key Implementation Indicators in      Planned        Actual     Actual as %
SAR/President's Report          Quantity       Quantity    of Planned
Accident Prevention & Traffic
Distribution
Junctions & Link Roads
* Belcan (incl. 400m P.M. Drive)      400m           400m          100%
* CAB (Belcan-Cemetery Road)
* Vernon Street (988m)                988m           988m          100%
*Orange Street (411m)                 411m           411m          100%
* Cinderella Plaza                Phase II
* Swing Bridge Access             Work omitted
awaiting
refurbishment
of Swing
Bridge
Accident prevention near Schools
* 3200 M sidewalks                    3200m         4000m          125%
New Streets: Bascule Bridge            450m            Om             0
Approach                                           Work
* 450m of New Road                                omitted,
problems
with waste
in BEL
lagoon
Inner Distributor Road
* Cemetery Road (700m)                700m           730m          104%
* Magazine Road (450m)                450m           247m          55%
* King Street (400m)                  400m           518m          130%
Water Lane/Alexandria Street         200m           191m          96%
(200m)                               150m           130m          87%
* Mosul Street (150m)                 200m           200m          100%
* Mapp Street (200m) (gangs)*         200m           200m          100%
* North Front Street-Part             350m           260m          74%
(200m)(gangs)*                       550m           515m          94%
* Douglas Jones Street (350m)*
* Freetown Road (550m)
Pedestrian & Cycle Routes
Kut Avenue (250m)                    250m           206m          82%
* Euphrates Avenue (800m)             800m           806m          101%
* Dean/Iguana Street (800m)           800m           898m          112%
* Glynn Street (150m)                Phase II
* New Road (550m)                     550m           450m          82%
* Regent Street West (lOOm)           loom           175m          175%
* Dolphin Street (800m)               800m           900m          113%
* Traffic Management                                               60% of
estimated
cost
completed



19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Street and Traffic Management (continued)
Work         Key Implementation Indicators in      Planned       Actual      Actual as
Package            SAR/President's Report           Quantity     Quantity       % of
Planned
Pedestrian & Cyclist Facilities - 4m
width
* Central American Bou]levard (800m)    800m            0            0
* Princess Margaret Drive (1000m)       1,OOOm          0            0
* Northern Highway (lO)Om)              1,OOOm      Included         0
* Caesar Ridge Road (950m)              950m        9B              100%
950m
2       Further Accident Prevention & Traffic
Distribution                              650m          435m          67%
* North Front Street (650ni) (gangs)*    450m          440m         98%
* Victona Street (450m)(gangs)*          350m          350m         100%
Freetown Road (350m)                    450m          450m         100%
* Barracks Road (450m)                   310m          310m         100%
* Hydes Lane (310m)*                  Roads: 653m   Roads:653     182 % of
* Collet Canal Roads & Bridges        Bridges: 7U       m        planned cost
* Traffic Management                                Bridges:7
3        Environmental Improvements - Part 1
* Albert Street & Regent Street (800m)  Phase II        0             0
Southern Foreshore (500m)              Phase II        0            0
* Other Street E-W (2300rn)             Phase II        0             0
* Amenity Lighting (100 No)             Phase II        0             0
Street Furniture                       Phase II        0            0
4        Additional Works Added After Start Of
Bcip Contract
* Misc. Accommodation Works                           2000m
* Additional Paving                                   1662m
* PMD Extensions                                      2885m2
* Barrack Road Amenity Area                           4x20m
* Belcan Footbridge                                   1300m2
* Fisheries Amenity Area                              1900m
* Northern Highway Improvement Works                  Misc.
* Misc. Extra Work to Contract 9A*
* Belcan Junction Roundabout*                         lOlOm
* Mahogany Street*                                    870m
* St. Thomas Street Paving*                           2660m
.FabersRoad*
(*):    100% Local Funding



20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Drainage, Canals and Creek Improvement (continued)
Work    Key Implementation Indicators in    Planned      Actual Quantity   Actual as % of
Package       SAR/President's Report         Quantity                         planned
SDI    Dredging (Collet Canal &              11,000m3         14,330m3            130%
Outfall)
SD2    Link Canals - Group 1
. Trench Town - N Creek       Lined Canal-820m    Lined Canal -820m  100%
Trench  own -   CreekDredge - 1170m
Prisoner Creek - N Creek                            0                0
. North Creek dredging                               0                0
SD3    Link Canals -  Group 2
Haulover Creek -                             750m
St. John's College
(PlMD)
Haulover Creek -
Buttonwood Bay                              Phase II
(W Landivar)
SD4    New Canal - Group 1
Douglas Jones Street -      1500m            340m             22%
Cinderella Plaza -
Baymen Avenue
SD5    New Canals - Group 2             Lined - 250m    Lined - 870m
St. Thomas Street                              Open Ditch -          348%
330m
SD8    Southside Canal Lining           Roads -         Roads - 1170m
(including roadworks)           1170m          Bridges - 13U         100%
Bridges - 13U



21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Coastal Protection and VVaterfront Facilities (continued)
Work    Key Implementation Indicators in   Planned          Actual       Actual as % of
Package       SAR/President's Report        Quantity        Quantity         planned.
Lighthouse to Swing Bridge
CP4        Sheetpile & anchor wall          Phase II            0
* Sidewalks & enhancement        Phase II             0
* Dredging for boats             Phase II
TOTAL                                                 O
Haulover Creek Boardwalk &         Phase II           0
CP8      Jetties (3000m2)                _
Additional Work Added After
Start Of Bcip Contract
* Barrack Road Amenity Area                        380m
* Fisheries Amenity Area                           230m
Table 6: Studies Induded in Project
Study                  Purpose as defined at           Status        Imnpact of study
appraviLsa]Uredefined                                        l
Consultiberica-Halcrow        Feasibility Study for proposed    Completed in   Used for project
Feasibility Studies.          Belize City Infrastructure     February 1993      preparation/design
l _____________________________    j   Project                                   .    .  .



22
Table 7A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Project Component
Local [ Foreign              Local [ Foreign T
costs    costs     Total     costs     costs     Total
COSTS
A.1  WORKS
(i)   Streets & Traffic             3.50      6.50      10.00     9.72      9.88     19.60
(ii)  Drainage                      2.94      5.46      8.40      2.68      4.94      7.62
(iii)  Coastal Protection           0.56      1.04      1.60       .20      .37       .57
(iv)  Supervision                   0.12      1.08      1.20      1.02      2.49      3.51
Subtotal                    7.12      14.08    21.20      13.62    17.68     31.30
A.II INSTITUTIONAL
(i)   Tech. Assistance/Training     0.05      0.45      0.50      .54       0.00      .54
(ii)  Equipment                     0.00      1.60      1.60      0.00      .51       .51
Subtotal                    0.05      2.05     2.10      .54       .51       1.05
A.IH PPF REFINANCING
(i)  Design                         0.00      0.90     0.90      0.00      .90       .90
Total BASELINE COST                 7.17      17.03     24.20     14.16     19.09    33.25
Physical Contingencies            0.70      1.60      2.30
Price Contingencies               0.46      1.04      1.50
Total PROJECT COSTS            8.33     19.67     28.00     14.16     19.09     33.25



23
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)     Actual/atest estimate (US$M)
Source
Local    Foreign T             Local    Foreign
costs     costs     Total      costs      costs     Total
IBRD/IDA                            0.33       19.67     20.00      .91       19.09     20.00
Central Government                  8.00    _            8.00      13.25      0.00       13.25
TOTAL                   8.33      19.67  T  28.00  1  14.16       19.09     33.25
Table 8: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Operational Statement (OD of OP/BP)



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Covenant  Present   Original    Revised              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Type     Status  fulfillment  fulfillment
date       date
Agreement
Loan        2.02 (b)          13         C                             Opening of special account
Loan        3.03 (a)          09         C                             Progress reports March 31, July 31, September
30, December 31 of each year.                                       l
Loan        3.03 (b)          09         C                             Review investment and recurrent expenditures
by February 28 of each year.
Loan        3.03 (c)          09         C                             Review project implementation by June 30,
1995.
Loan        4.01 (b) (i)      01         C                             Review special account expenditures.
Loan        4.01 (b) (ii)     01         C                             Government should provide to the Bank an
audit report no later than four months after the
end of each fiscal year.
Loan        Sched. 6-1        12         C                             Approval by National Assembly the traffic bill.
Loan        Sched. 6-2 (a)    12         C     5/30/94                 Appoint 12 constables to BCC.
Loan         Sched. 6-2 (b)   12         C     5/30/94                 Coordination of police (BCC-police force)
Loan         Sched. 6-3 (a)   12         C      11/30/94               Submit to National Assembly the Fire Brigades
Bill.
Loan        Sched. 6-3 (b)    12         C      12/30/94               Implement Plan to promote volunteer fireman.
Sched. 6-4       12         C     5/30/94                 Establish a Housing & Planning Committee.
Sched. 6-5 (a)   12        NC    6/30/94                  Review CUBIC.                             Withdrawn. To be addressed
in later Urban Inf. Project
Sched. 6-5 (b)   12        NC    9/30/94                  Submit to National Assembly the CUBIC Bill   Withdrawn. To be addressed
(if appropriate).                        in later Urban Infrastructure
Project.
Sched. 6-6 (a)   12         C     11/30/94                Establish ambulance service of BCC.
Sched. 6-6       12         C      11/30/94               Transfer environmental protection of Belize
(b)                                                       City to BCC.



Sched. 6-6       12        C       11/30/94               Transfer public health control within Belize
(c)                                                       City to BCC.
Sched. 6-6       12        C      12/30/94                Cause BCC to appoint Executive Officer for
(c)                                                       6a, 6b, 6c.
Sched. 6-7       12        C      6/30/94                 Establish procurement unit for BCC.
Sched. 6-8       12        C      5/30/94                 Submit to National Assembly a utilities
(a)                                                       coordination bill.
Sched. 6-8       12        C      6/30/94                 Cause BCC to establish unit to coordinate
l__________  (b)                                                       activities of 8a.
Sched. 6-9       12       NC      1/30/95                 Cause Belize Port Authority to levy for solid   Withdrawn, Belize not port for
l_________  (a)                                                         waste discharge from ships.              discharge of solid waste.
Sched. 6-9       12       NC      1/30/95                 Remit collected fees to BCC.             Not applicable, but hotels/resorts
(b)                                                                                                indirectly make payments on
behalf of vessels.
Sched. 6-10      12        C      5/30/94                 Submission to National Assembly a City Tax
(a)                                                       Bill.
Sched 6-10       12        C      6/30/94                 Appoint Valuation officer for assessment of
_ (b)      _                                                 property values.                                                            cn
Covenant Types:                                                                               Present Status:
I= Accounts/audits                             8 = Indigenous people                         C   = Covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue              9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting          CD = Complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries             10 = Project implementation not                CP = Complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds              covered by categories 1-9              NC = Not complied with
4   Counterpart funding                        11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the                        budgetary or other resource
project or executing agency                 allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                    12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                         regulatory/institutional action
41,                               13 = Other



26
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project            Planned                      Revised                       Actual
cycle
Weeks          US$          Weeks          US$           Weeks           US$
Preparation to                                                                   37.9           93.5
Appraisal
Appraisal                                                                        27.6           57.0
Negotiations                                                                      6.7           19.3
through Board
Approval
Supervision              21           60.9          24.0          62.9           51.9            130
Completion              4.0            9.1          11.0          35.0            4.5           15.2
TOTAL                   25.0          70.0          35.0           97.9          128.6          315.0



27
Table 11: Banik Resources: Missions
Stage of Project                     Number of   Days in         Specialized       Performance
Cycle          Month/year         Persons       Field       staff skills         rating            Types of Problems
L__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I_ _ _ _     _ _  _ _  _ _    _ _ _  _ _  _  _   _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ __represented
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _  _ _ _ _ _IS   T D O
Through
Appraisal                                                             _
1.                Oct.1991                3            4    _
2.                Nov.1991                 1           7    _
3.                May, 1992               2            12     _
4.                Oct.1992                 1           6  _
5.                Jan.1993                1            8    _
Appraisal
through Board
Approval           _
1.                May, 1993       _                   14   _
2.                 Sep. 1993              3            8      =
Supervision       __                                _   _                        _         _         __T__ _ __T_I_            I
1.                February 1994           4           10      Lawyer, Mun.          1         1      No issues reported.
Eng., Disb.
2.                May 1994                 1           7       Mun. Eng.           HS        HS      No issues reported.
3.                 September              2            7       Mun. Eng.,          HS        HS      No issues reported.
1994                                        Consultant
4.                March 1995               1           8       Mun. Eng.            S        HS      No issues reported.
5.                May 1995                 1           8       Mun. Eng.            S        HS      No issues reported
6.                December 1995            1           7       Mun. Eng.            S        HS      No issues reported
7.                June 1996               3            7       Div. Chief,          S         S      No issues reported
Mun. Eng.,
Country
________________   ________________   ___________   __   _    |_  A nalystnalyst
8.                April 1998              1            3  -  Economist             N/A       N/A               N/A
Completion                           _
1.                May 1998                3            8      Economist,                             Institutional issues
Infrastructure                        crucial for sustainability.
| Eng.
I __________  I      __________       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I_ _ _ _ _   C onsultant



28
Table 12. Impact Indicators
Parameters/Criteria     Traffic Accidents     Public Health Risks   Water Pollution   InnundationlFlooding
to be measured
Units                Number of traffic       Number of cases       Pollution loading   Number of properties
accidents per year.    (mortality/morbidity)    (mg/i) from    flooded during rainy
(Fatalities and        from gastrointestinal    BOD, COD and    season.
Casualties)            diseases and malaria    phosphate
(children under 5 years
old)
Target/ Critical Area      City Center         Belize City General     Mouth of      Market Square Area
Haulover
Creek/CoMlet
Canals
Baseline Data        (Belize City District)
1988                   353                   2859             not avialable            60
1989                   526                   2725            not available             65
1990                   643                   3209             not available            65
1991                   588                   3502             not available            66
1992                   622                   3500                 80                   68
Comparative Data        (Belize City only)        not available                           not available
following project
implementation.
1995                   217
1996                   239
1997                   256                                      1998-80
Responsible          Police Department       Bureau of Public      Ministry and      Ministry of Environment
Institutions                                 Health                Environment



29                           APPENDIX A: AIDE-NEflRE
Belize: Belize City Infrastructure Project. Loan 3667-BEL
Implementation Completion Report Mission, April 24-May 1, 1998.
Mission Aide-Memoire.
1. A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Thakoor Persaud, Garry Charlier and
Edgar Martinez visited Belize between April 24 and May 1, 1998, to collect the
information required for preparation of the Bank's Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) and to review with GOB officials, progress being made in finalization
of the Borrower's report. The mission met with the Minister, Permanent Secretary
(PS) and Project Coordinator in the Ministry of Urban Development (MUD); the PS
of the Ministry of Economic Developnment; the Deputy Financial Secretary of the
Finance Ministry; the PS and PU Head of the Ministry of Works (MOW); and the
Mayor, Finance Manager and City Engineer of Belize City. The mission also met
with the consultant supervising the project works and it visited the project sites and
interviewed several residents in the project areas. We would like to express our
sincere thanks to all of the officials for their cooperation and assistance to the mission
in its task. The following is a summary of the mission findings and recommendations
which would be presented in greater detail in the Bank's ICR.
2. Overview. Overall, indications are that the physical works have been largely
implemented as originally envisaged. However, there were adjustments to the scope
of work which included complementary investments in the street network and traffic
management, canals/creek and drainage system improvement, and a significant
reduction in the coastal protection sub-component. Notwithstanding these positive
results in the physical component, many of the key complementary institutional, legal
and financial actions under the, project, as well as the sustainable operation and
maintenance of the infrastructure works, face serious obstacles. For various reasons,
there appears to be an extremely high level of polarization among several key
participants and this has weakened the degree of cooperation and commitment needed
for jointly seeking mutually-beneficial solutions to several important project
challenges, chief among which is the fuiture viability of the system and continued
expansion and improvement of the services provided. There is a perception that, to
some extent, the Bank did not place suiFcient emphasis in a timely manner upon
several key TA, institutional, legal and related administrative issues, it did not clarify
many necessary follow-up steps and it took or sanctioned some rather arbitrary
actions which also contributed to the above problems. In spite of these shortcomings,
there also seems to be a shared view (by officials, beneficiaries, the consultants and
the mission), that when compared with pre-project conditions, this project has had
remarkable success, not only in physical terms but also in many key legal, financial
and administrative areas.  The main question now  relates to the long-term
sustainability of the system and operationalization of the various reform and
decentralization measures at the municipal level.



30
3. Project Data. Some basic data on the project are as follows:
Appraisal     Actual.
Component.                      (US$ M)       (US$ M)
Physical Works (drainage, roads, sea defense)       21.2            31.30
TA for various legal/admin. reform measures          0.5            0.54
Equipment for operating/maintaining works             1.6           0.51
PPF                                                  0.9            0.90
Contingencies                                        3.8            0.00
Total Cost                                          28.0            33.25
Bank Loan                                    US$ 20.0 M      US$ 20.00
GOB contribution                             US$ 8.0 M       US$ 13.25
Appraised: 6/93   Board: 11/93 Signing: 12/93  Effective: 3/94    Closing: 12/97
4. Even before looking at the revised figures, it is apparent that at US$ 2.1M, the
original TA and equipment component was not as significant a share of the total
project as they should have been. A reduction of the ex-post figure to about US$ 1.25
M (to finance additional infrastructure works), exacerbated this situation and
contributed to some of the present difficulties. While it can be argued that a lack of
consensus and delays in initiating some of the TA activities led to this reduction, this
argument does not detract from the fact that there was need for a greater focus on the
TA and complementary basic equipment component as key elements in the package.
5. Implementation Arrangements. The actors involved are: (a) the Ministry of
Economic Development (MED); (b) the Ministry of Finance (MOF); the Ministry of
Home Affairs, Housing, Urban Development and Cooperatives (MUD); the Ministry
of Works (MOW); the Belize City Council (BCC) and the community. MOW has
responsibility for implementation of the physical works (via contractors) while MED
and MOF look at both loan-management issues, and with the MUD and the BCC, at
some TA activities. Apart from several TA and other reform measures, the BCC also
has responsibility for taking over the completed works from MOW and operating and



31
maintaining them as part of its assets. A PU exists with a coordinator within the
MUD but this is a bit of a misnomer since it is only for the TA aspects of the project.
The MOW has its chief engineer as de-facto coordinator. Apart from assignment of
the traffic, drainage and sea-defense tasks to MOW and the TA and reform ones to
MUD and BCC, the appraisal document is not very clear on the overall project
coordination functions or mechanisms for conflict resolution. Notwithstanding the
above, there has been a steering cormmittee, chaired by the MUD Minister, as well as
a Cabinet Sub-Committee, appoirLted by the Cabinet and chaired by the MUD
Minister, to address issues beyond the Steering Committee.
6. In general, while the mission finds that each of the above group tried to implement its
respective component, it appears that there was need for greater emphasis upon their
inter-relatedness and greater emphasis of both individual as well as inter-group
responsibilities, roles and guidelines, along with the possible ramifications. A clearer
third-party mechanism for internal arbitration/resolution of issues and more active
Bank interventions during key junctures could also have helped in avoiding delays
and other difficulties during project implementation and later stages.
7. Project Implementation.  In general, the project works seem to have been
adequately conceived and designed with some rather innovative ways of overcoming
space constraints, difficult geographical, geological and hydrological conditions and
also to compensate for possible misuse of the infrastructure works by the
beneficiaries. The implementation phase for the physical works went well with the
contractors, the consultants and the MOW developing a very good relationship after
some start-up problems (some involving redoing of the works).
8. It appears that there were some areas of inter-institutional disagreements arising from
both the initial technical start-up problems as well as the unclear roles of BCC and
MUD in their interaction with MOW. While BCC and MUD may have participated
in many of the progress meetings, their perception was that they were oftentimes not
allowed to provide important input toD MOW during key decision-making stages about
the works. Consequently, several works were either not done as expected by these
entities or in some cases, they had to be redone or later modified. Given the nature
and scope of the works, design changes were to be expected; however, the process
and its ancillary activities could apparently have been done with greater transparency
of the underlying rationale and, perhaps with more recognition of, and dialogue with
other key actors.
9. Given that this project was conceived and designed as a multi-stage investment
program, it is commendable that even without the originally-envisaged follow-up
stages, the project works have been successful in reducing flood damages, improving
traffic flows and generally improving the living conditions in the city without adding
sizable amounts to the original budget. When various readjustments and works
repackaging had to be done, some trade-offs were necessary (e.g., channeling and
aligning instead of relining a canal or switching one section of works with another).



3.2
It appears that the rationale for such changes could have been more widely publicized
and discussed among the primary stake holders without affecting the pace of
implementation.
10. On the TA and other components implemented by MUD/BCC, while there were also
significant accomplishments, their full utility and impact can only be realized if the
necessary follow-up actions are taken. Thus, while it is true that the GOB has
complied with about 90% of the institutional reform actions stipulated in the Loan
and Subsidiary Agreements, they for the most part only involve parliamentary or
similar legal approval. These are necessary but not sufficient conditions for achieving
the institutional, development and related goals envisioned at appraisal.
11. In the spirit of decentralization, one area which should have been included in the legal
reform package during appraisal is the revision of the BCC Act of 1875. As it now
stands, there are several key functions (all BCC staff appointment, tax rate
modification, etc.) which are still subject to GOB approval. Also, the mayor is
elected (peer selection) for one-year (renewable) term.  This raises several
accountability and sectoral consistency issues.  To some degree, this situation
highlights the lack of definition of a clear sector policy and the complication it can
cause in its absence. Two immediate project related issues are discussed below.
12. Cadastre. The situation here could be potentially very serious for the BCC, the GOB
and the residents. This is because the GOB has already passed the law requiring that
property be assessed on the basis of market (rather than equivalent rental) value.
However, because of difficulty in agreeing on the most suitable consultant to provide
the information needed to implement the new law, the BCC continues to use the old
one with rental equivalent. The legality of this approach is now being challenged in
court and if it found that the BCC cannot utilize the old system, it would not be able
to use the new one since the main parties still cannot agree on a consultant. The aide-
memoire of the last supervision mission indicates that the BCC undertook to hire a
consultant with its own funds (thus eliminating the GOB-BCC standoff on which
consultant to hire). However, nothing has been done so far in getting the cadastre
study started. This situation (as well as lack of action on the liquor, business and
related taxes) is one of non-compliance with a Bank legal agreement. The absence of
a finite transition period in the law is also causing some confusion about which tax
regime is legal at this time. The follow-up step of making the new law operational
remains in limbo, primarily because of the absence of any clear documentation on
how to proceed, no funding provisions or analysis of several administrative
implications.
13. More serious is the fact that by not having an appropriate cadastre system in place to
obtain the funds needed to maintain the project works, there is a great risk that within
a short time, these works may begin to fail due to lack of needed maintenance. An
ironic element here is that there is clear evidence that the city can collect a multiple of
its current taxes and have enough to not only operate and maintain its present stock of



33
infrastructure, but also extend it over time. Almost all citizens recognize the positive
element of the project works, and property values are generally higher because of the
benefits. Still, only about 45-50% of them are paying their taxes (which can only be
adjusted in five-years intervals). In an environment of relatively high inflation, this is
another issue which should have been addressed in the reform package.
14. Unless the new property tax system is put into operation as soon as possible, it could
put the BCC as well as the entire project works in jeopardy. The mission is
requesting from the Borrower an action plan showing how the transition period is to
be handled, along with a schedule (with dates) for having the new property tax law
operational.
15. Operation and Maintenance. While there was a clear understanding and legal
agreement for BCC to assume responsibility for the works after they are completed, it
appears that there were several assumptions, but no clear transition plan for this. A
long list of equipment and related facilities for BCC was reduced for various reasons
and BCC is claiming that it cannot assume responsibility for the O&M task without
the necessary equipment. There is need for quick BCC action in cleaning the streets
of debris which block the drainage pipes taking surface water to the drains and in
flushing and cleaning the drainage system. The BCC and MOW have agreed to work
together to get the streets and drainage system cleaned immediately. They also
agreed to work together with the consultant to conduct a review of the most cost-
effective long-term system to be used for such maintenance and proceed with such
recommended system. Details of both the short-term clean-up program as well as the
proposed long-term one will be prepared by BCC and MOW with the consultant's
assistance and this will be sent to the Bank by May 15, 1998. The long-term solution
is expected to be in place by the end of June, 1998.
16. Other areas of concern which need attention include BCC's enforcement of
excavation and restoration rules in 'WASA's street works, enforcement of traffic and
parking regulations, more intensive public education campaign on trash disposal, and
tax education programs.
17. Summary. Overall, the situation in Belize seems very unique in several ways. On
the one hand, in a city which is flat and prone to frequent floods, the use of drainage
ditches along narrow streets as both a solution for flood alleviation and as sidewalks
was a very creative and praiseworthy idea. Apart from some start-up problems, there
has been a high quality of work with creative use of a limited budget to obtain a wide
range of benefits. Some important complementary legal and institutional changes
were made to help the GOB and BCC to gain maximum benefits from the works.
Unfortunately, there were lapses in several key follow-up areas and the situation
worsened as the process became politicized. It would be rather unfortunate if a
project with such great potential benefits were not able to fully achieve them because
of these non-technical problems.



34
18. Lessons Learned. The Bank's ICR will contain greater details of the main lessons
learned from this project. Among these are the following:
(i)   A  clearly-defined and articulated sectoral and institutional policy
framework is necessary to provide direction and rationale for project works,
sharpen project goals, set priorities, minimize conflicts and avoid ad-hoc and
costly non-sustainable initiatives.
(ii) Incorporating the active participation of all stakeholders (including
beneficiaries) at the earliest stage of a proposed project and continuation of this
practice during all subsequent phases is a necessary condition for its success.
(iii) The institutional, administrative, financial, legal and related framework
should be very clearly-defined, understood and agreed-upon by all parties and
these should include clear procedures not only for the conceptual phase but also
for making them operational.
(iv) New investments should not be the answer to chronic deferred operation
and maintenance deficiencies. Without full appreciation of, and commitment
to the need for adequate operation and maintenance provisions (cost recovery,
manpower and other related needs), such projects will not be sustainable.
(v) If in the course of project implementation, it becomes clear that in spite of
the best efforts, project goals and sound technical practices are being
overshadowed by irreconcilable and extraneous conflicts and obstacles, project
implementation should not proceed until such conflicts are resolved.
19. Next Steps. The Bank's ICR will be prepared to reflect the above findings.
During the March, 1998 Bank mission, guidelines for preparation of the
Borrower's ICR were discussed and agreed upon with the Finance Ministry.
Additional clarification is also being provided during this mission (see annex).
The Finance Ministry has agreed to prepare and send to the Bank by May 15, 1998,
the Borrower's ICR incorporating the feedback received from MUD, MOW and
BCC. As previously discussed, this document will not exceed ten pages and it
would summarize the Borrower's viewpoint. It will be annexed (as received) and
the full draft document would be sent to the Borrower for comments. Because of
time constraints, such comments would be sent to the Bank by May 31, 1998, after
which the ICR would be finalized and forwarded to the Bank's audit department
for its review, possible follow-up actions, distribution to the Bank's Board and to
the Borrower.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29628
'////// WORKS NOT CONSTRUCTED UNDER B.C I P.HASE 1           COASTAL PROTECTION WORKS CONTRACTS                  ROADS CONTRCTS                     1--*  PEDESTRIAN/CYCLUSTFACILITIES "WPI,                                                                      BEUE
COANA CONTRACTS                                        CONTRACT No 5S )AUWAUI MPROV'EMENTS.        (1      CONTRACT No..8 fSIDEWALAS
CONTRA T No 1 DREDGING COLLT                          BOARDWALKS & J  ES                                   NEAR SCHOOLS)                                                                                /     /             BELIZE  CITY  INFRASRUCU                     RE  PROJECT
CANALC& OUTTAUC TO SEA]                                                                         (        CONTRACT No. K (PEDESTRIAN/ 
CONTRACT N..2 (S0THSHIDE CNAL JLINNO                ROADS CONTRACTS:                                        C YCLIST PRIORITY ROUTES]                                                         V/                     BELIZE CITY STREET NF                ORK  AND  TRAFFIC  NEWORK
ACONTRACT No 2 CANAlS CONNECTING                     CONTRACT No. 6 JUNCTIONSI                   (D       CONTRACT No.  ICYCLEWAYS)                                                                       /
PR SONER CREEK & TRENCHTOWN TO COLLETI    .         CONTRACT No 7 (WSIN ROADS SOUTH)               '     CONTRACT No. 9 RMAIN ROADS NORTH)                                                  /
CONTRACT No U (CANAOS NORTH                                                                               CONTRACT No. IODO CDT//                                                                                -
OF HAULOVER CREEK]                                                                                        PARRTIA IMPRODEMENTS1                                                       /                                                        ...--
.  CONTRACT No.4 ICUERTS CONNECTING                                                                                                                                                       ,          /.-'.
o,,,D,CHES,IN,INGS PARK AREA)                                                                            PMD/OAHOOANY ,
g5EDCH~   ~ ,.'.'- <t                                                        / LATDRRE    _~                   _ 01          I                          '   /i  "= 
/ ;C               COX                                 2<  0% ,t  CDT KERR ,Ry.6~..t                                                                 I 
<a,  a ff g   SE                                                     '' \  'V5. ,  .  Q  tV    ISTR   ft%  - tS7RA7t                        K                                                               K                         =        ,'
,%RCT%JJSANARD                     -~~~~~~(
Ct                                       t"ooo   'rRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M MEICN/
~~ RD  9'                  K~           T/oo                  V      RACR
MEXICO 0
(D                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Caribbean   Sea                                                                     BELMOPAN
B               So IZ 
WBflJDE  -, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~flHRPHWDR  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~                             00        . ~~~~~~~HONDURAS
JUNE 1ET8



