Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCuL USE ONLY
RepwtNo. 12210-BEL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BELIZE
BELIZE CITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 1, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12210 BEL
Type: SAR
Depar.ment III
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted dismtibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Belizean Dollar (BZ$)
BZ$1.00 = US$0.50
US$1.00 = BZ$2.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        =         0.62 mile (ml)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =      0.386 square miles (sq ml)
I bectare (ha)          e         2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)    =         2,205 pounds (Ibs)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BEL               Belize Electricity Limited
BTL               Belize Telecommunication Limited
BCC               Belize City Council
CARICOM           Caribbean Community
CBD               Central Business District
CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
CDB              Caribbean Development Bank
CUBIC             Caribbean Unified Building Code
EIRR              Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOB               Goverrnment of Belize
ICAO              International Civil Aviation Organization
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MOW               Ministry of Works
MUD               Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, Cooperatives
and Local Government
PCR               Project Completion Report
SBD               Sample Bidding Documents
SOE               Statement Of Expenditures
SDA               Special Development Areas
USAI)D            United States Agency for International Development
WASA              Water & Sewerage Authority
FECAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF BELIZE
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BnIJZE
TABLE OFCONTENTS
Page No.
LAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY   ....                    ....................                      i
L URBANSECTOR                                                                         .
A. Background ..                                                                    2
B. Urban Setting ............................ 
C. Environmental Conditions             ..                                          3
(1)    Stmets and Traffic  .............................   3
(ii)    Drainage, Canals andCreeks ..........           .............  3
(iii)   Water, Sewerage, SoLid Wastes and Sanitation .............  4
(iv)  Coastal Zone Degradaion .......................... 5
(v)    Transport ..............................5 
(vi)   Housing ..............................                               6
(vii) Urban Poor.                                                           7
D. Institutional Constmints..                                                       7
(i)    Investment and City Planning ....................... 11
(ii) Utlty Coordinon ........                                              11
(i)  Traffic Control and Security ........                                 11
(iv)   Enforcement of Environmental Laws and Regulations .12
(v)  Belize 'City Administation .12
(vi)   Municipal Finance  ............................. 13
E. Bank Experience in the Sector and Lessons Learned               .       .       14
F. Sector Lending Strategy and Rational for Bank Involvement .         .15
ILTHEPROJECT                                         ..15
A. Project Origin and Pepartion .15
B. Project Objectives .16
C. Project Description .16
D. Project Costs and Financing.                                                    18
m PROJECT lEMNENTATION   .                                    .20
A. Implementton Arrangements .20
B. Procurement .20
C. Disbursement .22
D. Accounting, Auditing and Reing Requirements .23
The report is based on fidings of an appraisal mission which visied Bdeize in May/June 1993. The mission
comprs  Pierre E Sooh, Sr. Municipal Engineer (LA3"N, Ms. Abigal Osea4Addo environmenal specialist
(LA1T , and consultants Robert and Freda Strombomn, Win Hendrisks, Fernando Rojas and Stanley Kowalski.
Peer reiew was provided by Mr. Richard Beardmore. The report was prepared under the supervision of Peer
Ludwig, Diidon Chief, and Mr. Yoshiaki Abe, Diredor. Ms. Opbelia Hase assisted in its production.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
IV. PROJECTJUSTInCAnON AND RISKS   ........................ 24
A. Benefits .24
V AGREEMENTSTO BE REACHED AND RECOM&EMDATIONS .25
ANNEXES
Annex I.  Belize Economics Statistics.28
Annex II.  Belize Vital Statistics .29
Annex m. BelizeCity nomeDitsibutin .30
Annex IV. Belize City Housing Ownership .31
Annex V.   Detailed City Municpal Finance Projections .32
Annex Vl. DetailedDisbursement. able .35
Annex VII. Street and Traffic Management .36
Annex VII. D  inage, Canas and Creks Inprovement .38
AnnexIX.   Coastal Preton and Waerfl nFacilities ................... 39
Annex X. Equipment ist.                                                        40
Annex XL.  Technical Assistance Terms of Reference .41
AnnexXl. Economic Analysis .43
Annex XI=. Impact Icators .45
Annex XIV Performance Indicators .46
Annex XV.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files .47
CHARIS
Chart I.   Onization ofBelize City Council .48
Chart H.  Project nplementation Schedule .49
MAPS
map         EBRDMapNo.25267BelizeandBelizeCity .................. 50
Map         IBRD Map No. 25268 Belize City Stre   and Tffic  .    ........... .51
Map         IBRD Map No. 25269 Belize City Drainage, Canals and Coastal Walks  . 52



-MI
LOAN AND PROJEC SUARY
Bonwer:                              Belize.
Benefidarles:                        Ministry of Works, Ministry of Urban Development and
Beliz City Council.
Loan Amount:                         US$20.0 million equivalent.
Terms and Conditions:                17 yeas rqeaymenu including a grace period of 5 years,
at the Bank standard variable interest rate.
ProJect Objectves:                   The Project sees to: (i) improve health and safety of
Belize City dwellers; (ii) preserve the rich ecology of the
City and its environs, one of the most importat asset of
the country; (iii) promote economic development of the
City, in particular provide a boost to tourism, the fastest
growing industy in the country; and Qiv) strengthen city
caacity for infastrucre manence and delivery of
urban services
Project DescriptIon:                 The Project will provide for: (X) rhabilitation of the
street network and traffic management; (ii) improvement
of the drinage system including canals and creeks; Qii)
coast protection and berth facilities; and (iv)
strengthening the City's capacity tO mantain its
infraucture and impve the delivery of urban services.
Benefits:                           Imove health, safety and enionmental conditions in
the city; spur tourism development; improve conditions of
the urban poor; enhance administrative efficiency, fiscal
discipline and delivery of services by the City Council;
and ensure technical, financial and economic viability of
municipal inftucture, its maitenance and investment
oeaions.
Risks and Safeguards:                Lack of utility coordination causing delays in project
execution; weak municipal capacity and authority to
implement stution strengthening; risk of displacement
of urban poor though a process of buy out by the well-
off when the infiructue improvement is completed.
Risks wDl be mitigated by transferring utility coordination
to the municipality and providing technical assistance
services, an a finacial assistance program put in place
by the Government for the urban poor to improve their
dwellings.



- iv -
Project Costs & Finauldu Pla
(US$ Million)
Lol           Foei              TOal         % oTol
Al      WORKS
O       Steeb  & Tallb                             350             6.50            10.00            65
(a)     D _IGe                                     2.94            S.46             8.40           6S
Oil)    Coastl Ploetloa                           0.56            1.04             1.60            65
Qf)     SUPee                   10                                 in                               90
ubtWo                                    7.12            14.08           21.20            66
AMI   DNWTTUT1NAL
Os      Tech. AoAaia eia                           0.05            GAs              0.50            90
(U)     Bq.pm                                      000             La               LS             100
boad                                      0.05            2.05            2.10            98
0.05
AM   PF RENANCNG
DoeIp                                      0.00            0.90             0.90           100
Tor L AS COSTS                                                             __ _ 
A.IV    CONTINGENCES
(0)     Phyl Contlog    (10%)                      0.70            1.60             2.30            70
01)     Pico Conth_e                               0.46            1.04             1.50            70
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         Ua                                              2a
Pecuof
Local         Foig               Totdal     pjct cost
B. FINANCDN .M
mD                                         033            19.67            20.00           71
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT                         8.00                            8.00            29
TOTAL                                      8. 33          1967
}atmd Disbursement (IBRD Meon)
(US$ Mmion)
Annual                                       FY94    FY95    FY96                       FY97
Cummulative                                    2.0          4.2            7.8           6.0
2.0          6.2           14.0          20.0
Ec=n RBak Rd=ti  30%
C,



I. URBAN SECTOR
A.   Backround
1.1         Belize, located south of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula on the Catibbean coast of
Central America, attained independence from the United Kingdom in 1981. With a population
of about 200,000, it occupies an area of about 22,500 ki2 including 450 cayes, or small islands,
msulting in a low population density of about 9 people per km2. Belize compares favorably with
nighboring Central American and some Caribbean countnes in income distribution, education
and health. Belize population is young (about 50% below the age of fifteen) and quite literate.
Primay school enrollment stands at 85% and adult literacy at 90 %. The country is endowed
with abundant and fertile land, literate urban labor, proximnity to North America and a stable
currency (i.e., its exchange rate has been pegged to the US dollar at a fixed rste since 1976).
In addition the countty has some of the best tourist attractions in the world, including favorable
weather, archeological sites, exotic marine and terstrial flora and fauna, picturesque landscapes
and the world second longest coral reef, all of which make it attractive to foreign investment and
tourists. Income is fairly evenly distributed, with the private sector being the dominant sector
of the economy. Belize per capita GNP is estimated at US$2,050 in 1992.
1.2         Since the mid-1980s, Belize has experienced rapid economic growth in response
to good economic management and a favorable external environment. During 1986-90, real
GDP growth exceeded 10% per annum on average, with strong contribution from all sectors of
the economy. At the same time sugar export receipts grew by 80%, exports of citus nearly
doubled and that of bananas and tounsm (the fastest growing industry in the country) tripled.
Construction boomed and in turn boosted trade and transportation related activities. Since 1991,
the economic growth has slowed down due to setbacks in banana and citrus production and the
recession in the US economy. In 1992, real GDP growth is estimated to have reached 5%.
1.3         Despite diversification away from excessive reliance on sugar, the economy
continues to be heavily dependent on three commodities: sugar, citrus, and bananas. These
products are all subject to preferential trade arrangements under the Caribbean Basm Initiative
and the Lome Convention. Together, these products represent over 80% of all exports of goods
and over 40% of all exports of goods and services. While simultaneous reduction in all
preferential arrangements seems unlikely, a gradual phasing out of at least some of them appears
to be a real possibility. Although Belize is more competitive than other Commonwealth
Caribbean countries in sugar and bananas, it would face strong competition from lower cost
Central and Latin American bananas and citrus producers if faced with sudden loss M
preferential treatment. Consequently, Belize's main development challenges are to maintain
prudent macroeconomic management, particularly in the public finances, and further improve
economic efficiency to enable continued diversification and reduce its vulnrability to external
shocks.



-2-
B.   UrbanSgting
1.4        More than 90% of Belizians live in sillages or towns of more than 50 people.
This clustering of population results in 75% of the land being virtalaly uninhabited, with less
than one person per kn2. Furthermore, about half of the country's 200,000 inhabitants live in
8 major city centers. The largest populaton center, Belize City, has about 60,000 dwellers, or
about a third of the country's population. Other cities include Belmopan, the capital, with a
population of about 4,000; Benque, 4,000; Corozal, 9,000; Dangriga, 7,000; Orange Walk,
12,500; and Punta Gorda, 4,000. Belize City is the center of the economic activities of the
nation. It accommodates the country's international aiiport, its seapoto, its best schools, an
international banking center and accounts for about a third of the GNP. Belize City is the
gateway to tourism, the fastest growing industry in the Country now accounting for about 15 %
of the GNP. However, the City benefits very little from, and as a matter of fact has become
an impediment to the industry due to: inadequate sanitary conditions, traffic congestion with high
rate of accidents and fatalities, and lack of security. The proposed Project is designed to
improve these conditions and spur tourism development in the City.
1.5        Belize City is located on the prominent deltaic peninsula of the Belize River
(IBRD MAP No. 25267). The peninsula is a low-lying mangrove swamp. By a law enacted
on February 8, 1993, the city limits have been extended and now cover an area of about 20 km2.
The development of the City has come about by costly landfills, a continuous process of costly
and environmentally destuctive land reclamation, consisting of cutting mangroves, excavation
of surrounding high land areas, and filing of low-lying wetlands. The scarcity of land has lead
to over crowding in the city center (about 20,000 people per kn2). Following Hurricane Hattie
which struck in 1961, severely damaging the City and kIlling 275 people, the Government built
in 1969 a new capital, Belmopan, about 80 km inland to relieve pressure from the City and
provide shelter to the population. This move and past government efforts and policies have
succeeded in establishing Belmopan as the new emerging political capital. Thtse efforts,
however, have not stemmed the growth of Belize City which remains the commercial capital.
The City has tripled its population since Huniicane Hattie and has grown by a quarter in the past
ten years.
1.6        The inftasucture development and maintenance of the existng facilities have not
kept pace with this expansion thus compounding the city systemic problems due to location
namely: overcrowding; traffic congestion and a high rate of automobile accidents and fatalities;
adequate sanitation; clogged drains, siltation of inland waterways, and ponding of raw sewage
in canals and creeks; frequent destructive floods; lack of open space for recreation; and
accelerated coastal erosion and degradation of its natural defenses, increasing the City's
vulnerability to naual disasters i.e. hurricanes and epidemics. These infrastructure inadequacies
are an impediment to the city health, safety and eronomic well being. The proposed Project is
designed to deal with these issues. As a prelude to the Project, USAID has financed a study,
carried out by forign consultants, to assess the potential growth of Belize City and formulate
policy directions and strategic growth/land use concepts. The studies recommendations have
been agreed to by the Goverment and underlie the project design. These recommendations
consist of a two-pronged approach to the stategic growth of Greaer Belize City: consolidation,



-3 -
rehabilitation and eniancement of the historic Belize City and accommodation of further
expansion in the highlands along the Northern Highway to Ladyville.
C.   Envirpumnta Conditions
(i) Strees and I:Affc
1.7         ne City is linked to the rest of the country by two major modem highways. The
Northetm Highway connects the City to Ladyville, Burell Boom and the Mexico border. The
Westem Highway connects the City to Hattieville, the capital Belmopan, and the Guatemala
border. The City is criss-crossed by a maze of about 75 km of streets, yet major activity centers
are poorly c&mnected. Tlese streets, developed from foot paths, were built on organic soil
foundations. They are generally very narrow and lack sidewalks and parking spaces. Although
mosdy paved, they are poorly drained and cracking under intense traffic.
1.8         Traffic is heavy and frequently congested with volumes ranging from 1,000
vehicle per hour in the cental busness district (CBD) to about 100 vehicle per hour in city
outskdrts duing peak periods of 7:00 AM - 9:00 AM, 11:00 AM -1:00 PM and 4:00 PM - 7:00
PM. About 50% of the city's total popuaion of 60,000, mostly children, women, elderly and
poor move around as pedestrians or cyclists. With no sidewalks and bicycle lanes, lack of
traffic signs, signals, and pavement marldngs, there are constant competitions and conflicts
between pedestans/cyclists with motorists resulting in extremely high accident rates and
fatalities. While Belize City accounts for 34% of the country's vehicle fleet, it accounts fo.
about 75% of all traffic accidents and fatalities. In 1992 there were about 262 traffic related
deaths and over 500 trffic related injuries. Traffilc/pedestrians conflicts are most acute in the
CBD, along Albert, Regent and Queen street and at the swing bridge. The children are the
most vulneable accident victms when walkng these dangerous routes to schools. The loss of
life from traffic accidents on per capita basis, is about three times that of U.K. and four dmes
that of St. Thomas. This extremely high tWaffic fatality ratio translates into high economic
productivity losses, and undue pressure on the health services. It is also an impediment to the
tourism industry.
(ii) Drainage. Canals and Creeks
1.9         The historical growth and development of Belize City are intricately linked to the
construction of an elaborate drainage system. An array of about 24 km of canals, built over 100
years ago, constitutes the back bone of the system. The canals were designed to discharge into
Haulover Creek, a branch of Belize River, or directly into the Caribbean Sea. During the past
decade, however, the canal system and supportng drainage structures have been seriously
neglected and the expansion of the system has not kept pace with urban growth. Some canals
have not been maintained since Hurricane Hattie in 1961. Drains are blocked by new
construction or clogged by garbage and silt deposits. The capacity of the canals has been
severely reduced due to flat gradients, siltation and accumulation of solid waste. In some
sections of the system, they serve as open sewers, receiving raw sewage from houses
unconnected to the sewer system. Some canals have become virtual sewer lagoons in the middle



-4-
of the City. Collet and Southside canas represent the worst conditions leading to extensive
coastal pollution, partiularly in the mouth of Haulover Creek. Stagnation in the canals and
heavy rainalls lead to serious floods causing accidents, deaths and damage to properties.
(iii)  Water. Sewera. Solid Waste and Sanitation.
1.10       Water supply and sewerage systems are adequate in the older parts of the City.
About 90% of the residents receive piped supply of water and 65 % of the residents who have
access to the sewerage system are connected. The water needs little treatment and is of good
quality. The supply is operted by the Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA), which is
reasonably run. Water and sewer rates are adequate. WASA is expanding its distribution
network on a continuous basis from internally generated funds (about US$100,000 a yeare.
Water and sewer services were imprved in the 1980s by a Canadian Intermational Developmtnt
Agency (CIDA) project which financed water and sewerage facilities in the City, including
opeation and maintenance equipment, residential and commereial meters, technical assistance
and training. The CiDA Project was followed, in 1991, by a Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB) loan which is fincng: (i) technical assistance to strengthen WASA management
capacity, and (ii) water and sewerage facilities, operation and maintenance equipment, and
sidential and commercial meters to serve the town of San Pedro in Ambergris Cay.
1.11       However, the expansion of water and sewer systems has not kept pace with the
rapid growth of the City. New housing developments lack adequate water and sewer coverage.
E% en in the old parts of the City, water shortages have strted to occur and pressures have some
times been very low, with disastrous consequences such as a fire which devastated two city
blocks in Febmary 1993. CDB has financed water and sewerage expansion studies. This
institution would finance the resulting necessary imvestments. These investments are an integral
part of the development of the Belize City infasucture, the object of the proposed Project.
1.12        Solid waste generated in the City has exceeded the capacity of the municipality
to effliciendy collect, treat and dispose of. To improve these operaions, the collection services
have been contracted out to a local private contractor. Under this arangement, solid waste
collection has shown some improvement; but there remain sonte sore points which need to be
dealt with: (i) although the landfill was properly designed and stiU has about eight years of
carrying capacity, the lack of equipment has resulted in unsightly open dumping of solid waste
at the sioe, with polluting runoff impacts; (ii) hospital wastes are being directly deposited in the
landfill, posing public health hazards and ground water contamination risks; and (iii) there is no
formal conactual arrangement for the collection from the port of ship generated wastes. Due
to rapid increases in tourism and economic activities in the City, tffic in the port has increased
from an average of four ships a month in 1986 ' twenty ships a month in 1992. This has
resulted in an additional monthly 30 tons to 40 told of ship generated solid waste which the
municipality must handle with no opportunity of cost recovery. Following discussions with
IBRD, the Government has provided new incinertors to area hospitals.  Under its
administative, legal and financial reforms Wparas. 1.21 to 1.31), the city will extend its
contractual arangements for collection of solid waste to the new city limits and the processing



of the ship borne wastes. Equipment fot land ield management would be provided under the
Project (para. 2.9).
1.13        In spite of ongoing major investments in water supply and sewerage systems,
about 35% of the residents in the old section of the City still don't have direct access to adequate
sanitation and are stll dumping raw sewage in the canals. To alleviate this situation, at least
90% conmection rate is to be achieved in the City by December 1993 under the CDB
Development Loan (par. 1.10). IBRD will monitor Belize's implementation of this CDB
covenant. For the implementation of this covenant, the Government has amended its Housing
and Rental Act (pan 1.19) requiring the landlords to connect all their properties to the sewer
systetn. One of the most serious impacts of the stagmnt canals, inadequate sanitation, and
improper solid waste disposal has been a sharp increase in gasto-intestinal and other water
borne pathogenic diseases such as typhoid, paratyphoid, gastro-enteritis and cholera. These
diseases tend to strike chidren most frequently, particularly children under 5 years of age.
Malaria which was almost eradicated in Belize in the 1960s has risen to about 1,700 cases
reportd in 1991. One of the intended objectives of the rehabilitation and improvement of
drainage, canals, sewerage and solid waste management under the proposed Project, is the
eradication of these diseases.
iv) Coastal Zone Daegadation
1.14        Belize City is a peninsula bordered by one of the world's longest coral reefs
(about 220 kin), second only to the Great Barrier Reef of Australia. The city's coastal zone is
populated by mangroves and wetlands which act as natwal buffer for water pollution, harbor a
rich biodiversity of ecosystems and species, and form the city's naural defense system against
hurricanes and strong winds. The tropical ecosystems of the area consisting of a mangrove
forest, seagrass bed, and the coral reef, also act as feeding grounds, nursenes, and breeding
areas for many economically importnt species of fish and conch, and provide the primary link
in the food chain upon which all manine life depends. The expansion of the City is endangenng
this system including procted species such as manatees, crocodiles, marine turtles, and
hawksbill. Tne rapid city grwth has caused extensive loss of wedands and mangroves,
excessive land reclamation along the coast and dredging of the coautl zone, and proliferation
of piers along the coast. Tbis has led to extensive erosion, pollution and siltation of the coastal
zone, particularly at the mouth of Haulover Creek and the coastal area of Angel Lane. The
proposed Project would include the rehabilitation and expansion of coastal protection structures,
a rational and optimal utilization of piers, and enforcement of appropriate forest and land use
regulations to safeguard the rich ecosystems and economic wellbeing of the area.
(v)   TranOW
1.15        Belize City and the Country have adequate air transport. International air trafftc
is handled by foreign carriers through the City international aiipoxt, located about 16 km from
the city center. The international airport, rehabilitated recently in 1991, handles on average
about 800 terninal and transit passengers daily and about 4 tons of freight. Domestic air traffic
is handled by private domestic commuter airlines and privately owned light aircraft. This traffic



-6 -
is handled through the municipal airstrip. The traffic at the airstrip includes 400 passengers
daily with one plane landing and taking off every half hour during daylight hours. The airstrip,
with a short runway and a patchwork of repairs, can no longer handle this traffc safely. Its
improvement would include the extension, strengthening and lighting of the runway, construction
of an apron, a taxiway, a control tower, and pe sengers and freight handling facilities, all to the
International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards. This traffic could also be handled
through the international aiiport with some improvements such as a domestic tenninal with
additiona' passengers and cargo handling facilities. Studies financed by CDB and caried out
by foreign consultants have concluded that this traffic could be catered more economically
through the intemational airport. The Government is reviewing the conclusions of these studies
and has approached the UK and CDB for the financing of additional investments. IBRD will
be informed of the results of these discussions.
1.16        Belize City has adequate bus and taxi services to all locations within the city
limits. These sevvices are rendered by private operators with a remasonable fare structure.
Average weekly fares account for about 7.5% of the average weekly income of a household.
Although the city is small in size, bus trips are generally long. This is due to narrow streets and
excessive congestion in the city center. The size of the buses is generally larger than desirable
in this street network. Although the network will be improved to accommodate this traffic as
much as possible, operators would be encouraged to use smaller buses to alleviate congestion
and prevent further destruction of the network.
1.17        Belize City and the country have a seaport which adequately handles cargo ships.
There is significant tavel between the City and various cayes via private boats and yachts. This
taffic and cruise ships are adequately handled through piers along the coast and the mouth of
Hauinver Creek. However there is a danger of proliferation of piers along the coast increasing
erosion and siltation. A rational utilization of piers at Ramada, Bellevue and Fort George Hotels
will be carried out under the proposed Project. Efforts will be made to handle this traffic with
adequate berth facilities at the mouth of the Haulover Creek.
(vi) Housing
1.18        Housing as not kept pace with the rapid city growth. Overcrowding is prevalent
in the inner-city. The average household size is about 5 in Belize city at lare and 7 in the city
center. Crowded inner-city conditions are exacerbated by old and ill-maintained wood structures
with poor sanitation. About 43% of the residental buildings were built before Hurricane Hattie
in 1961. Many of these buildings were structurally damaged by the storm and have never been
properly repaired. Overcrowding in deteriorated and structurally unsound housing pose a severe
public safety threat to both the tenants and the surrounding neighborhood. Furthermore, 56%
of the housing is rental, and absentee ownership of rental units is very high at about 36%.
Consequently, many tenants have little incentive to properly maintain or upgrade their units.
City-wide about 60% of all the existing shelter needs to be improved just to maintain the current
inventory in acceptable conditions.



-7-
1.19        The Government has taken two major steps to mitigate the inadequacies in the
provision of domestic sanitation services and the rehabilitation of the dwellings. It amended its
Housing and Rental Act in 1990 to mandate landlords and tenants to provide onsite sanitation
services including connection to the sewer system. It also initiated a financial assistance
progran to both landlords and tenants to undertake needed capital investments for the provision
of these services and rehabilitation works to improve the existing dwellings. Both programs
though excellent in concept have been difficult to implement. The reasons include: ineffective
enforcement of the Housing and Rental Act, constraints posed by ownership/tenants
angements, physical constmaints to install sanitary utilities in old and weak wood structures,
procesing complexities in applying for financial assistance, excessive paper work, and adjacent
land use constaints, as landlords/tenants may not hold the titles or rights to adjacent properties.
The Govemment is reviewing these two acts. It would streamline their implementation and
transfer their enforcement to the city as pat of the institutional and regulatory reforms to be
carried out under the Project (paa. 1.31).
(vii)    U dxat
1.20        A significant number of the city dwellers are classified as urban poor, about 15%
to 20% of the city population according to the 1991 census. Their average annual household
income is below BZ$ 6,000 (US$3,000). They live in the poorest sections of the town, Port
Loyola, St. Martin, Collet, Mesopothamea, Lake Independence and Pea Square. These areas
are the most polluted sections of the city, lack recreational facilities and have the most traffic
congestion. Dwellers tend to have larger families cramped in wood structures subject to serious
floods and fires. They make up about 90% of the pedestian population and bear the brunt of
most traffic accidents and fatalities. They are more susceptible to gastro-intestinal and other
water bome diseases such as typhoid, paratyphoid, gastro-enteritis and cholera. Under the
proposed Project, these poor sections of the town are targeted for the core infrastructure
improvement.
D. Instititional Constraints
1.21        In principle, the city is responsible for the provision of most urban services.
Chapter 66 of the Laws of Belize enacted in 1903 and amended many times ever since has
granted the city authority and autonomy with respect to the provision of these services.
However, other laws and a deeply rooted tradition of administrative centralization give the
Central Government authority and responsibilities in many areas which overlap with the urban
areas, and supersede in practice the responsibilities of the city. Either de jure or de facto, the
responsibility for planning, financing and executing urban infrascture and facilities rests with
the Cental Goverment and Sectorial Ministries with some overlapping functions, but very little
coordination at the local level. Ihe  sponsibilities for the opertion and maintenance of these
facilities is not clearly shared between these Minities and the Belize City Council. Vanous
attempts to clarify the siuation have made matters worse through the creation and proliferation
of committees responsible for vanous aspects of investments and land use planning. The net
result has been extreme fragmentation in planning, little coordination of investments, and loss
of critical interdependence between policy implementation and infrastructure planning. While



-8 -
some degree of the Govenmuent participation in the city management is consonant with the
limited size of the country and its managerial and financial resources, it can be adjusted and
clarified to improve the provision of urban services and the operation and maintenance of the
infrastucture systems. To improve the situation, the Govenmment, in accordance with its policy
of empowering the Belize City Council (BCC) and the Town Boards, has decided to strengthen
the city administtion and enhance its finances to improve the delivery of urban services and
the maintenance and operation of infrastructure systems. As expressed in its policy declaration,
the Government intends to:
(a)   amend or repeal existing laws and legislate new laws as necessary, to give
autonomy to the Belize City and the Town Boards, so that administration and
management of municipalities become independent of ministerial interference; and
(b)  legislate new laws to provide tenure of employment and security of service to
employees of municipalities, including benefits.
1.22       The institutional reforms implementing this policy are summarized in
Table 1.1 and outlined below. They will be developed and carried out as part of project
implementation under a time-bound action plan which include the issuance of administrative
directives and the submission of new bills to the National Assembly. The Project will provide
consulting services (para 2.9) to assist the Ministry of Housing, Urban Development,
Cooperatives and Local Government (MUD) and Belize City Council in this endeavor. It was
agreed during negotiations that the Government and the City Council will (i) carry out the
implementation of the institutional reforms referred to above, and (ii) enter into a subsidiary
agreement to set forth the resonsibilities of the City Council in project implementation. The
signing of such subsidiary agreement is one of the conditions of loan effectiveness.



___  ____ __            __ -   -          =_=
*         I        -  Q*   *         K  
I X~~~~~~~~1 I   I1                 -IX t
1  <XX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
iI~~~~~~~i
9L~~~
eD~KI   ~i



- 10-
Table 1.B
Belize Cit lommgr hy
immoui  F rrm   for th
aslied   d Fbacid ImpwaBelk of die
.________________________    _____________..Level of Responaibility
Action                             Centra
Parliam               MUDtBCC                 Aclion By
(7)  PubW  Health. 8anitn Enj
Protecton and AmbulanceSenis
AD Transterin to city enfoemmn
authority on Public Heat, Sanaton,
and EnvPronmea Procto (Pub&c
Hea  Act Capter3l, and
Environmental Proteaon Act No. 22 of
1992).                                          *                       a
-        Establish mbulance sevice                                              o* Nv. 30,1994
.        AD appoint Unit Managwr                                                                    30 days afte
_._____________________                                isuance
11 *     AD  re        and etar staffing
prouremen unit.                                                                            une 30, 1994
j|(9)  Utilit Coordination 
*1 -       3SPB providing BCC with utly
coordiaion fnction in th ciy wihh
enforcemet authoriy                                                                       May 30, 1994
-        Establish anit for implementation               a                       *                  30 dWs after
enactment
(10)   C  T Fx inancial[Adin
Real Esate Tax
*        Extn registration and cdard ecords
to COere 100% of the Ciy.
-        Transtbr prpety asment to Belhm
Ciy.
*        Adopt maket values of the propety as
valuation crierion. Adjust tx rates to
coewr city services.
-        hnprove tax collecton and suengthen
procedures for collecton of aeas.
-        Amend the Town Poperty Tax Act
accordingly.
Condition of
Siat* draft B3s fot Dk review                            *                                          effectiveness
SPB                                                      *                                         May 30, 1994
Appoint valuation officer                                c                       *                  30 days after
enaucment
(11)   Shin Genead Wa"t
City ly a fee ,rough pot authory,
on vessels for collection and disposal of                               *                January 30, 1995
soid waste
MUD: Ministry of Houig, Local Govment and Uban Development
SPB: Submisston to P diament Low
AD: Adinlstmtive Directive
J ,,    



- 11 -
(i)   Investment and City PlanniF
1.23       There are seven or more different Ministries involved in land use with
jurisdictional overlaps. The Ministry of NaturAl Resources is responsible for the administration
of the land Utliztion Act and development of "Special Development Areas (SDAs). Housing
development planning responsibilities are shared by the Ministries of Housing, Urban
Development, Cooperatives and Local Government. The Ministry of Environment and Tourism
is rsonsible for environment legislation and administration of protected and tourist sites. The
Ministry of Economic Development is responsible for managing development concessions. The
Ministry of Finance is responsible for financing housing and development operations. The
Ministry of Fisheries manages coastal zones. Ministries plan and execute projects in the City
with conadictory effects and no effective control from  the City Council.  With this
fragmentation and judsdictional ovels, private developers manage to carry through their
investments with little or no compliance with the existing laws and regulations. To improve this
situation, the Govemment will: (a) appoint the city manager as chairman of the planning
committee established by the cental housing and planning authority for the city, a position
which will allow him to effectively coordinate investment planning and execution in the city; and
(b) delegate to the City Council the delivery of construction penrits and/or some planning and
investment decisions. To safeguard the city inf re investment, the Government will
review and identify the provisions of the Caribbean Unified Building Code (CUBIC) which may
be enacted to complement or supersede those of the Belize City Building Code; discuss the
finding of this ieview with the Bank, and implement its recommendations taking into account
the comments, if any, made by the Bank. CUBIC was developed in rsponse to hurricane risks,
and has been used top repare the detailed engineering of the Project.
(ii)   Utlfity Coordination
1.24       Utilities in the City are   is   by various agencies. WASA provides water
and sewer services. Belize Telecommunication Limitd (BTL) has started to provide connections
to its customers with underground cables. Electiicity is provided by Belize Electricity Limited
(BEL). All these agencies carry their works in the street right of ways with very little or no
effective coordination, causing further deterioration of the smeet network and resulting from time
to time in cut-offs of electricity, telephone, water and sewer. To safeguard these investments,
the Government will prepare, and by May 30, 1994, submit to the National Assembly a bill: (i)
giving to the city the responsibilities to coordinate the activities of utility companes, property
developers, and public and private property owners within the right of ways of streets, canals,
creeks and coastl zones; (ii) setting up and stafflng a utilit coordination unit in the City
Administration; and (iii) giving the unit the authority to enforce this law.
(fii) Traffic Management, Security Fire and Ambulance Services
1.25       The Ministry of Energy and Communication is in charge of taffic management -
- some intersections sig on but no responsibility for maintenance. Traffic laws and
regulations are satisfactory. Their enforcement is supposed to be carried out by the police
department -- under the Ministry of Home Affairs -- and seven tafflic wardens employed by the
Ministry of Energy and Communication with no clear delineation of responsibility between these
two departments. The Ministry of Home Affairs runs the Fire Department and Police



- 12 -
Department in chare of security; and the Ministry of Health runs the Ambulance service in the
City with no control and coordination at the local level. This fragmentation and diffusion of
responsibilities have resulted in contradictory and ineffective signing, signalization and pavement
markings, and contribute to major traffic congestions and accidents, insecurity in the city, and
incidence of uncontrolled fires. These three services will be strengthened and coordinated in the
city. To this effect: (i) the Government will submit to the National Assembly bills which will
transfer to the city the rsponsibilities of traffic management and control, including wardens,
licensing and regitation of motor vehicles within the city limits; transfer to the City the
management of Fire Department in the Belize City and its assets; and establish effective
coordination between the city and police to ensure enforcement of traffic laws and regulations;
(ii) the Govemment and the City Council will establish effective coordination between the City
Council and the Police Bastero Division to improve security in the city, and appoint and swear
in at least 12 special constables to strengthen the police security functions, and develop citizens'
watch programs in accordance with the policy guidelines set by the commissioner of police; and
(iii) the Government and the City Council will establish an ambulance service in the city under
the jurisdiction of the City Council. As one of the conditions of loan effectiveness, the
Government will furnish to the Bank a satisfactory draft bill for transfer of traffic management
to the City Council. Such bill will be submitted to the National Assembly by May 30, 1994.
(iv)  Enforcement of Sanitation. Public Health and
i3nvironmental Laws and Regulat}2
1.26        The Government has made great strides toward its goal of environmental
protection and has enacted various environmental policies, laws and regulations. These include
the Environment Protection Act of 1992 with specific provisions for pollution control and
environmental impact assessments, and the Forest Protection Law of 1990 with special provision
to pct the mangrove forest. These policies, laws and regulations are not enforced due to the
proliferation of agencies with overlapping responsibilities in land use management. In addition
none of these agencies has a critical mass of tained personnel for implementation, leaving the
,priae developers free hands in housing development with very little or no concern to
environmental controls. USAID has financed a study and would assist in strengthening the
Ministry of Tourism and Environment and training some personnel to initiate proper enforcement
of the environmental laws and regulations country wide. To strengthen this action within the city
limits, the Government will, by November 30, 1994 transfer to the City council the
responsibilities for the enforcement of laws and regulations in the areas of public health,
sanitation and environmental protection, including management of solid waste, and appoint an
executive officer to carry out these functions including the provision of ambulance services.
(v) Belize City Administration
1.27        The city administration is headed by a political body consisting of 9 councilmen
elected for a three year term. The councilmen elect one of their own as mayor every year, thus
creating frequent disruptions in the management of city affairs. At present, officially the urban
management responsibilities of Belize City Council are limited to simple routine street and canal
cleaning, solid waste collection and landfill management, and the management of two public



- 13 -
markets and a cemetery. In addition, the City is canying, on an ad hoc and emergency basis,
the refilling and patching of trenches excavated by WASA, BTL and BEL and various small
capital works to access public places and recreation areas. The Belize City Council statutes
(Chapter 66 of the laws of Belize), however, authorize the city to undertake many more
functions. To strengthen its managerial capacities and provide stability and continuity in city
management, the City Council will appoint and there after maintain a city manager, city
engineer, and financial manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank. The
appointment of these managers constitutes one of the conditions of loan effeciveness.
1.28       The Organization (Chart 1) of the City Council is adequate for its present tasks.
It would however be modified to enable the city to properly assume in time the proposed new
responsibilities described above. Its personnel although adequate in number (523 employees)
lack sufficient technical skills to carry out effective infrastructure maintenance. To this end the
proposed project will provide the city with the necessary equipment, materials, supplies,
workshop facilities and technical assistance for management and training. The City will also
create and staff a procurement unit which will follow the Laws and Regulations on procurement
esblished at the Central level (para. 3.2). The city manager will be responsible for overall
planning and investment coordiation with the Sectorial Ministries of the Central Government.
The city engineer will head the works department in charge of traffic, urban planning, operation
and maintenance of infrastructure systems, procurement and utility coordination. The financial
manager will head the city's finance department in charge of budget and financial management,
tax administion and fiscal and budget coordination with the Ministries of Urban Development
and Finance.
(vi)  MmnicialFinanc
1.29       The Central Government finances the capital investment in the city at the tune of
about BZ$ 4.0 million (US$2.0 million) a year. This investment consists of ad hoc emergency
rehabilitation of some sections of the infrastructure. A few major investments are undertaken
from time to time. ITey have lately included the construction of a new market structure in the
heart of the CBD, a bascule bridge across Haulover Creek and a brand new fire station costing
about BZ$30.0 million (US$15.0 million). Due to lack of coordination and no preliminary
studies, the market place has been located at the approach of the most trafficked bridge, the
Swing Bridge, thus increasing congestion in the CBD. The location of the bascule bridge did
little to alleviate traffic congestion. The proposed project would create new traffic patterns to
minimize these effects. Under the Project, the city will exercise control of investment planning
and coordination (pam. 1.23). During negotiations it was agreed that the Govennment and the
Bank will carry out a joint review of the city investmnent by the Government and City Council
and recurrent expenditurs of the city by Febrwy 28 of every year. This will include a project
mid-term review on June 30, 1995.
1.30       The municipality resources to cover its recurrent expenditures are generated from
property tax on real estate, business and liquor licenses, rents, fees, service charges , and a S %
share of the national entertainment tax (Annex V). In FY 1991/1992 these sources brought to
the City about BZ$3.0 million, about 50% of the estimated necessary resources of BZ$6.0



- 14 -
million, to cover recurrent expenditures for effective delivery of city services and proper
execution of maintenance of the infrastructure systems. The major source of these revenues is
the property tax on real estate which brought in BZ$2.3 million or about 77% of the total. To
alleviate this short fall the Central Government subsidizes the City at a tune of about 25 % of its
total annual operating budget. In PY 1991/1992 these subsidies amounted to about BZ$ 0.8
million, not enough to cover the cunent fiscal deficit. Since the city is very prudent in its
financial management and does not engage in deficit spending, necessary maintenance operations
however have not been carried out properly resulting in rapid inftastructure detenioration.
1.31        A review of the sources of the revenues shows serious lapses in the management
of taxes and licenses. Propertes within the new city limits (para. 1.5) have not yet been
registered. The real estate valuation is carried out by the Central Govemment Valuation
Department. This agency currently undervalues the existing properties by at least half compared
to their market values. The nine city tax collectors have managed to collect only about 70% of
taxes, licenses and fees owed to the City. Up to December 1992 they were receiving incentives
based on accumulated arrears, which may have stimulated an excessive increase of the latter,
thus being counterproductive. To improve the financial situation of the Municipality, the
Government will, by May 30,1994, submit to the National Assembly a bill for tax reforms and
improvement of the city tax management system. Under this bill the City would: (i) upgrade
and extend the registry up to the new city limits, (ii) carry out the revaluation of all real estate
properties based on their market values; (iii) adjust the tax rate to provide sufficient funds to
cover urban services, including effective maintenance of the infrastructure systems; and (iv)
improve tax collection and strengthen procedures for the collection of arrears. After enactment
related actions will be taken by the city (Tible 1.1) as part of project execution. The application
of (i) to (iii) alone would produce enough rev"nues to pay for recurrent expenditures with no
subsides from the Central Government (Annex V, A and B). Also to properly manage ship
generated solid waste, the city will by January 30, 1995 levy, through the Port Authority, a fee
on vessels in Belize Harbor. This fee wfll cover the collection, transport and disposal of the ship
generated solid waste. As one of the conditions of loan effectiveness, the Goverment will
furnish to the Bank a satisfactory draft bill for financial reforms.
E. Bank ExperienOe in the Sedor and Lessons learned
1.32        The first Bank loan to Belize was in the infrastructure sector. It consisted of a
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2273-BEL, US$5.3 million, May 1983).
This project was followed by the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilittion Project (Loan
2945-BEL, US$5.6 million, May 1988). These loans provided for rehabilitation works on the
sections of the national road network, engineering studies and related supervision, acquisition
of equipment and spare parts for maintenance operations, and technical assistance for training.
A survey of results (PCR No. 7108 for the First Project, and PCR for the Second dated March
1993) shows that physical targets were met, but that one of the main objectives of these Projects,
i.e. to develop institutional capacity to progam, monitor and execute maintenance operations
was only partially achieved. This was mainly due to a lack of a critical mass of skilled
personnel and insufficient and untimely financial resources. Under these Projects, infrastructure
rehabilitation was arried out in Belize City. This included the rehabilitation of the urban



- 15 -
secdon of the Northern Highway and a section of the Central American Boulevard. These
structures are deteriorating fast due to insufficient overall drainage in the City. Drains and
canals connected to these structures are silted and for the most part blocked by solid waste. The
rehabilitation of some sections of the canals undertaken in 1991 under CDB financing did not
fare well either. The vicinities are still flooding due to stagnation caused by the siltation of
ocean outfllWs and blocked drains under the adjacent streets. From these experiences, it is seen
that in Belize City, rehabilitation of the infrastructure should be carried out globally, i.e.
carrying out simultaneously rehabilitation of streets, canals, drains, managemnent of coastal
zones, traffic, solid and liquid wastes. Another lesson equally important is that the establishment
of an appropriate insfitutional framework to ensure the sustainability of the benefits derived from
the project is of pamamount importance. Both of these lessons have been incorporated in the
design and implementation f the proposed Project.
F. Sector Lending Strategy and Rational for Bank Involvement
1.33       Belize development sttegy supported by the Bank, calls for the public sector to
concerate on tbree broad policy fronts including: (i) continuation of prudent fiscal and
monitory policies, with particular emphasis on expenditure restraint, to maintain pnce stability
and provide a stable environment for the private sector development, (ii) improvement of
economic and social infrastructure to eliminate bottlenecks and improve economic efficiency (i.e
urban and rumal infrastucture, water and sewerage, electricity and health), and (iii)
rationalization of the incentive framework to ensure efficient resource allocation and provide an
enabling environment for furte export diversification and improvement of the competitiveness
of the economy. The proposed Project is consistent with this stra-egy. It would assist in the
improvement of economic and social infrastructure of Belize City and its environs.
31. TlEBROJECT
A. Prjedt DIlO nd Preation
2.1         The proposed Project originated from the Government's desire to spur economic
development in its largest city, with a third of the country's popuion, where it became quickly
apparent that infastucXtre was the bottleneck. The project was identified in December 1991,
when the Govenment approached the Bank to assist in the rehabilitation of infastrmcture in the
Fort George area to promote tourism. Following IBRD suggestion, the Govemment approached
USAID which accepted to finance a development plan of the City. The plan was completed in
August 1992 by foreign consultants. It recommended a two-pronged approach to the
development of the City: rehabilitation, consolidation and enhancement of the historic City, and
accommodation of further expansion in the lighlands along the Northem Highway to Ladyville.
The design of the proposed Project is based on this strategic growth plan.
2.2         A PPF (No. P185-0 BEL, US$0.8 million, signed on June 8,1992) has been
provided under the Project for the prepartion of feasibility studies, detailed engineenng and
bidding documents for the rehabilitation and development of the City infrastructure. These



-16-
services, carried out by foreign consultants, were successfully completed in June 1993. The
PPF was fully disbursed. At the Government's request, a supplemental PPF (No. P185-1,
US$150,000) was approved by Bank management on September 23, 1993 to assist in completing
procurement activities for the hiring of contractors for the execution of civil works. In addition
to these activities, CDB has provided financing for the studies of the expansion of water and
sewer systems. Feasibility studies, carried out by foreign consultants, were completed in March
1993, and detailed engineering and bidding documents in May 1993. The Project was appraised
from May 22 to June 6, 1993. A post-appraisal mission visited Belize from September 4 to 11,
1993 and obtained, from the new Government which emerged from the June 30, 1993 elections,
a commitment to the Project and implementation in accordance with arrangements agreed to
during the appraisal.
B. Project Objecti
2.3         The project seeks to:
(a)  improve health and safety of Belize City dwellers;
(b)   preserve the rich ecology of the city and its environs, one of the most important
economic assets of the country;
(c)   promote the economic development in the City, in particular provide a boost to
tourism, which is the fastest growing industty in the country; and
(d)   strengthen the city capacity for infrastructure maintenance and deliveiy of urban
services.
C. Project D    ion
2A4         The Prject would achieve the above objectives by providing for:
(a)   rehabilitation of the street network and traffic management;
(b)   improved drainage system including canls and creeks;
(c)   coastal protection and berth facilities; and
(d)   strengthening the City's capacity to maintain its infrstructure, manage solid
waste and improve delivery of urban services.
2.5         The Project represents the first three years (1994-1996) of a seven-year (1994-
2000) infasucture development program for Belize City. The investments in three components
of infrastucture have been brought into a single technically sound, easily implementable
program which would be effective in achieving the widest possible enviromnmental, economic,



- 17-
and financial benefits. The program has been designed to benefit al social strata of the City,
including the urban poor. The Project encompasses a minimal critical mass of priority
investments which would result in a noticeable improvement of the cityscape. It is concentrated
on the rehabilitation and improvement of the existing infrastructure systems in the CBD and the
historic city center. It derives its benefits mosdy from an integrated package of works in streets
and traffic, drainage and coastal protection. The execution of the project will be accompanied
by the expansion of the water and sewer system under CDB financing, and a housing
,rehabilitation program under a government financial assistance program to landlords and tenants.
Street Network and Traffic Managment System
2.6         The mprovement of street network and traffic would be concentrated on the CBD
and much of the Old City. This area, where major activity centers are poorly connected, bears
the brunt of traffic congestion, accidents and facilities. Most of the streets are narrow, about
4 m to 6 m wide, within right of ways of 5 m to 10 m. They were developed from foot paths
and built on oaganic soils with no drainage. The scheme will enhance the area environment and
cover about 12 km of major streets and overall improvement of interconnecting network
(MAP IBRD No. 25268 and Annex VII). It would provide for. (i) continuous circulation loops
with through traffic linkages bypassing the city center, (ii) one way grid systems, (iin) proper
drainage systems, (iv) pavements widening and strengthening, (v) utility works within the right
of way, when necessary, with the collaboration of WASA, BIL, and BFL, (vi) improvement
of major intersections, bridge approaches and crossings of Haulover Creek, (vii) sidewalks and
bicycle lanes with emphasis on aU area schools, (viii) parking areas, (ix) traffic signalization
systems, signs and pavement markings, and (x) lighting.
Canals and Creeks
2.7         The historical growth and development of Belize City is intricately linked to the
constuction of the surface water drainage system. Since Hurricane Hattie in 1961, however
the canal and creek system and supporting drainage network have been seriously neglected and
the expansion of the system has not kept pace with the urban gvwth. This has led to serious
flooding and pollution of the inland waters exposing the population to serious health and safety
hazards. The Project would provide for the rehabilitafion and improvement of the existing
system of canals and creeks, creatng a continuous circulation system (MAP IBRD) No. 25269
and Annex VEI) between the inland waters and the Caribbean Sea. The system would be driven
by flows in Haulover Creek, a branch of Belize River, and tidal motions. Works, which are
intricately linked to street and drainage works, would include: (i) cleaning and dredging up to
the sea outfall of Collet Canal (2.0 km), and improvement of crossings at Vernon, Cemetery,
King, Dean, Raccoon, Kut and Queen Charlotte Streets; (ii) dredging and lining of Southside
canal (1.2 km) and its junction with Collet, and improvements of its banks to provide parking
space; (iii) extension, dredging, and linldng of Trench Town Canal (1.5 km), North Creek (0.6
kn) and Prisoner (1.2 kn) Creek and their connection to Collet; (iv) reconstruction of Douglas
Jones Street/C alla Plaza/Baymen Avenue Canal (1.7 kIn); (v) lining and lining St. John
College, Princess Margat Drive, Buttonwood Bay and west Landivar Canals (3.3 kIn); and
linkng St. Thomas Street Canal with Haulover Creek and the Municipal airport outfall (1.5 kIn).



18 -
2.8         Uncontrolled development in the coastal zone has resulted in degradation and
neglect of sea defenses causig excessive siltation in some areas and serious erosion in others.
Sand and silts bars are blocking the outfalls of the inland waterways and contributing to the
pollution of canals and creeks. In addition to the protection of natural sea defenses, i.e the
mangrove forest, the Project would provide for protcton works and clearing of outfls
(MAP BRD No. 25269 and Annex IX) including: (i) strengthening and improvement of the
existing wall, rehilitation of berth facilities, and construction of a boardwalk between the
Lighthouse and the Swing Bridge, (ii) repairs of existing wall, rip-rap extension, construction
of a boardwalk and drinage outlets between the Swing Bridge and the Rectoly Lane, and (iii)
dredging and rip-ap protection of Collet Canal outfall.
Inion Strengthniflt
2.9         Under the Project, the City Council would be given more latite of management
to improve services and adequate financial resources. This devolution of responsibilities would
be accompanied with the stenging of the city administron including: (i) orpnization; (ii)
enhancement Of financial m ent and accounting practies; (iii) training of personnel; (iv)
oi~anizaion  of infcture maintenance operations, (v) acquisition and maintence of
equipment, and (vi) technical assistance and trining. Technical assisance would include a
fnancial/legal exert for 6 man-months, a street and tafflc epert for 12 man-months and a
canal and marine sucure expert for 12 man-months. Te equipment list (Annex X) and
technical assistance terms of reference (Annex XI) were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations.
D. Fr       Cosjt and nainXd
2.10        The total costs of the Project including contingencies, taxes and duties are
estimated at US$28.0 million with a foreign exchange component of about US$19.7 million or
about 70% of the total. Txes and duties are esimated at US$2.3 million or about 8% of the
total. Project base costs are in June 1993 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% have been
added, and price contingencies are based on inflion rates for both foreign and local component
as follow: 3.0% in 1993-1994, and 3.5% in 1995-1996. Detailed cost estimates are shown
below (Table 2.1).



- 19 -
Table 2.1
BEI
lNei Cty WSmuXre Emo3
Prohte Costs & Flnag Pl
(US$ Million)
Foroi#n as
LOCal         Foeign            Total        % of Total
Al      WORKS
(1      stees & Traffc                             3.50            6.50            10.00           65
01)     Drainw                                     2.94            5.46             8.40           6S
(di)    Coas Ptotection                            0.56            1.04             1.60           65
(iv)    SUPeVIs                                                    1.0.1            j.20           90
subtotal                                 7.12            14.08           21.20            66
A.Ml    INSnTUTIONAL
0)     Tech. AstiTraing                            0.05            0.45            0S50            90
()      Equipent                                   0.00            L60              L60            100
subtotal                                  0.05            2.05            2.10            98
A.m    PPP RUPANCU4G
Desin                                      0.00            0.90            0.90            100
TOTALBASSECOSTS1705_
A.IV    CONTINGNCIES
(I)     Physca Contingenq (10%)                    0.70            1.60            2.30            70
(i)     Pdie Co _geny                              0.46            1.04             1.50           70
TOTAL PROJECT COSMS                        8-33           ,                                70
MO          9=
Percent of
Local         Foreisn           Totsl       project cost
IBRD                                       0.33           19.67           20.00            71
C;NRAL GOVERNMENT                          8.00                            8.00            29
TOTAL                                      83
2.11            Costs of civil works for streets and traffic; draimge, canals and creeks; and
prtoatron are similar to those of civil wor    recently carried out in the countly.
Consultig services for supervision are estmated at 6%  of the costs of works. The man-month
of technical assistance services estimated at US$15,000 include US$12,000 for salaries and
ovedread (home office expenses, expatriate allowance, social costs and other expenditures), and
US$3,000  for  reimbursable  eWenses  (tavels,  telecommunications,  housing  and  other



- 20 -
miscellaneous items). These costs and those for equipment, materials and supplies are in line
with those prevailing in the country.
2.12        The Project represents a minimal critical mass of activities which would result in
a noticeable improvement of the cityscape. It derives its benefits mostly from an integrated
package of works of the three infrastructure components: streets and tmffic, drainage, and
coasl protection. The Government would provide US$8.0 million and IBRD and a loan of
US$20.0 million equivalent to achieve the objectives of the proposed Project. The detailed
financing plan is shown in Table 2.1.
m  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Imlemoentation Arrangements
3.1         The Project will be implemented by the Ministry of Works (MOW) for the
infrstucture component and the Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, Cooperatives and
Local Government (MUD) with the assistance of the Belize City Council (BCC) for the
institution strengthening component. XIrastucture rehabilitation and improvement works will
be camed out by private contactors under the supervision of consultants. Technical experts will
assist the Ministry of Urban Development and City Council in improving city managerial and
technical capacity to better municipal services. The expected implementation schedule for major
activities of each project component is shown in Chart 2. This schedule was discussed and
agreed upon during negodations. The Project covers a three-year period starting in January
1994. Infastructure works will start in January 1994 and take about 36 months to complete.
Equipment would be delivered by December 1995, following the taining of city technical staff
and equipment operators. Technical assistance for financial management, training and routine
maintenance will be carried out from the second quarter of 1994 to the end of 1996. MOW,
MUD and BCC have limited capacity for procurement work; they will be assisted, during the
project implementation period, by consultants to handle procurement tasks efficiently. The
Project is expected to be substntially completed by December 1996. Civil works will mostly
be carried out within the right of ways of steets and canals with very little encroachment to the
private properties. The Government has undertaken all legal and administrative steps required
to acquire the necessary minor easements.
B. Procurement
3.2         A country procurement assessment was canried out in May/June 1993. It
concluded that the country does not have comprehensive procurement regulations. Because of
this, and to carry out Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, the
following provisions will be included in the Loan Agreement: (i) bids are open in public; (ii)
evaluation criteria are explicit; (iii) award is made to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (iv)
foreign contractors are not excluded from  participating in the bidding.  Procurement
aningements are summarized in Table 3.1.



-21 -
Table 3.1
Belize City fra,structure
Nocemnent Arranmements
'*"   \ ;-w^'''..s  '   '   ' ' .
1. Civi Works                            22.2         1.0       .           23.2
l ______________________________         (14.5)       (0.7)                 (15.2)
2. EquipmeDt                              1.7                  0.10P        1.8       l
(1.7)                (0.10)       (1.8)
3. Consult Sevices
A.   Supervision                                              1.4         1.4
(1.4)"      (1.4)
B.   Tebnical Assance                    -
Jasitutond Suppt                   -                    0.6         0.7
amd Ttining                                            (0.6)        (0.7)
PPP Refinandg                                          -        1.0         0.9
(1.0)      (0.9)
Total                                    23.9         1.0       3.1         28.0
____u__n_p _____wea_o________by __RD    (16.2)       (0-7)     (3.1)       (20-0)
" Bask Orw Gilaa   &r _I.
3.3            Civil Woks would consist of infrastructure rehabilitation and improvement works
estimated to cost about US$22.2 million. They would be procured essentially through
intenational competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the 1992 Bank Group Procurement
Guidelines, after prequalification. Standard Bank Bidding Doccrnents (SBD) will be used for
this purpose,including the "Standard Prequalifcation Document for the Procurement of Works",
and the "Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of Works (Smaller contracts)". Small
rehabilitation works, estimated to cost less than US$250,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$1.0 million will be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank (pam. 3.2), advertised locally. The Government has agreed
to adapt SBDs for prequalificaton and small works for use in LCB procedures. The approval
by the Bank of the modified SBDs is required before LCB procedures under the project can be
iniated. This conditionality will not delay the implementation since 90%  of the project will be
cared out through ICB.



- 22 -
3.4           S  consisting essentiahy of maintenace equipment estimated to cost US$1.7
million will be procured through ICB using SBDs for Procurement of Goods. For purposes of
bid evaluaton for goods, local and CARICOM manufactues will be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Shopping procedures, with price quotations
frm at least three suppliers, could be used for the purchase of a single unit or a small group
of equipment and/or tools, materials and supplies, which contract cost would be less than
US$25,000 but not exceeding US$100,000 in aggregate.
3.5         ConsulXnt  will be selected following the 1981 Bank Group Consultants
Guidelines and contacted using the Sandard Bank Form  of Contract for Time-based
Consultants' Services when applicable. At the Government's request, it was agreed that the
foreign consultants who were chosen in accordance with Bank Guidelines, and successfully
carried out the feasibilty studies, detiled engineering and prearation of bidding documents,
would continue to assist the Government in the supervision of works. This will ensure
continuity, consistency in basic technical approach and a commitment to the works cost estimates
on which the imvestment decision was made.
3.6          BankpiQr mrevm of proposed invitations, award recommendations, and final
contrActs will be required for: (i) all contracts for works and goods procured under ICB; (ii) all
contracts procured under LCB; and (iii) all contacts for consultdg services above US$25,000
and the selection of individual consultants. For consulting assignments with firms estimated to
cost below US$25,000, the Bank will review ex-ante the terms of refernce, and ex-post.
relevant supporting documentation on selective basis during supervision. The proposed reviecw
arangements would provide a prior review coverage of about 99% of Bank financed contts.
hese u       din  were discussed and agreed upon during negotiations.
C. D u        t
3.7         The proposed IBRD loan of US$20.0 million equivalent would be disbursed on
the following basis:
(a)   65 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
(b)   100 percent of total expenditures for consultants senices, technical
assistance and training;
(c)   100 percent of foreign expenditures and 70 percent of local expenditures
when procured locally, for equipment, materials and supplies; and
(d)   reimbursement of PPF advane.
3.8         All disbursements will be fully documented except for payments against contracts
valued at less than US$25,000 equivalent which would be disbursed on the basis of statements
of expenditures (SOB). To the e,cte;g possible, all wthdmw  plt,d           ted
to no less than US$100,000. Supporting documents for amounts withdrawn on the basis of



- 23 -
SOEs would be held in a ceral location, and made available for review by auditors and visiting
Bank missions.
3.9         The estimated disbursements are sunumarized below (Table 3.2). To fiacilitate
project ewcution, a Special Account would be established in the Centml Bank of BeLize in US
dollars with an initial deposit of US$ 300,000, representing on average about a four months
disbursement requirements for disbursement requests below US$25,000. Detailed disbursement
schedule is shown in Annex VI. It is based on the project implementation schedule and the
disbursement profile of past projects in the country. It also aliows for 12 months from the end
of the physical execution of the Project and the last payment to allow for delays in issuing price
indices governing price variations in contracts. The Loan is expected to be closed by December
31, 1997.
Table 3.2
Esthnated Disburnment (IBRD Ljan)
(US$1Mllion)
FY94           FY95            FY9C            FY97
Annual              2.0             4.2             7.8             6.0
Cumulafive          2.0             6.2             14.0           20.0
D. ASCQUI Au    and Reporn Rau
3.10        PrMoect accounts will be maintained in a central location by Finance Sections of
MOW for civil works, and the Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, Cooperatives and
Local Government for institutional stengthening. They will be consolidated in the Ministry of
Fimance and made available for inspecdon by Bank supervision missions. All project accounts
will be audited according to generally accepted accontig procedures by an indpdent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports would include separa  pinions regarding: (i) the
existence and reasonableness of the supporting documentation for disbursements based on SOEs;
and (ii) the opeations of the Special Account. These audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank not later than four months after the end of each fiscal year.
3.11        MOW and MUD/BCC will prepare, and submit for Bank review, quarterly
progress reports on the execution of the Project. These reports will be submitted by March 30,
July 31, September 30 and December 31 of each year. Every fiscal year, concurrently with the
preparation of the annual budget, MUD and BCC will prepare a progress report detiling
infrastructure works, maintenance program and funding incurred during the year. ITis report
will also include proposed investment in the city by the Government and recurrent budget by the
city for the following year. This annual report will include impact indicators (Annex XI) and



- 24 -
performance targets (Annex XIV). This report will be submitted to the Bank by February 28
of each year for review. During negotiations it was agreed that a mid-tenn review of the project
implementation will be carried out by the Government and the Bank not later than June 30,
1995.
3.12        MOW and the MUD will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be
submitted to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the closing date of the Loan.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Hiit"
4.1         General. The Project represents a critical mass of activities which will improve
health, safety and economic development and enhance the municipal management and the
availability of essential urban services in Belize City, the major economic center of the Country
with about a third of the population. Direct economic benefits will materialize in the form of
increases in real estate values and tourist trade resulting from improvement in the urban
enviromnent and cityscape (street rehabilitaton and traffic management, security, improvement
of drainage system including canals and creeks, water and sewer expansion, solid waste
collection and disposal, and coastal protection). The improvement of the CBD wiU improve the
City Council ability to increase fiscal revenues. Rehabilitation of the drainage system including
canals and creeks, improvement of sanitation facilities, traffic management and security will
improve health and safety of city dwellers. Street rehabilitation, maintenance and traffic
management will yield savings in vehicle opeting costs and accidents.
4.2         3conomic Rate of Return. The infrastructure components are intricately linked
and the Project derives its highest benefits from the execution of each individual component.
Based on the most probable estimates of rehabilitation and maintenance costs, and generated
benefits, the economic interna rate of return (EIRR) ranges from 24% to 34% (Annex R[. The
quantfiable benefits are derived from lower vehicle operation costs, less tffic accidents and
fatalities, increases in property values and tourist activities. Sensitivity analysis was carried out
to test the effect of variations in costs and benefits on the above estimates. Even under the
unfavorable assumption of 20% lower benefits and 20% higher costs, the EIRR remains
comfortably above 12%.
4.3         Envhronment and Health Benefits. The rehabilitation of the street network and
traffic management, improvement of drainage system including canals and creeks, coastal
protection works, sewer connections, and solid waste collection and disposal wiU decrease air
and water pollution, protect the City from floods, improve the health of the dweUers by reducing
about 80% of gastrointestinal diseases and other water borne pathogenic diseases. The municipal
strengthening component wil support the improvement/development of regulatory and
environmental management capabilities to protect the rich environment area and enhance naturl
city defenses, i.e. the mangrove forest.



- 25 -
4.4         BUyM.y wiatihn. The uban poor wil be major beneficiaries of the Projec.
This group makes up about 15% to 20% of the population of the City. They live mainly in the
area where major improvements will take place. They will benefit from less traffic accidents and
fatalities, better flood protecdon, improved health, better recreation areas, better fire protection
and security, and improved access to water and sewer connections. They will also benefit from
employment generated during the execution of the Project, i.e. labor intensive works on drinage
and sidewalks.
4.5         A. Belize extenal debt is manageable. Estimated debt service,
including the incremental debt service resulting from the proposed Project, amounts to about 8 %
of its export trade in goods and services. The improved economic efficiency resulting from the
elimination of infrstructure botlenecks to be implemented under the proposed Project, is
expected to have a long run beneficial impact on the future budgetary expenditures.
4.6         Risks and Safeguards. The major upgrading of the inner-city is a complex
undertaking requiring the involvement of the City Council and a host of centrl govermment
departments. Risks include:
(a) lack of utility coordination causing delays in the execution of works;
(b)   weak municipal capity in the execution of institution strengthening, and
infrastructure maintenance;
(c)   slow devolution of responsibilites to the City Council; and
(d)   displacement of urban poor through a process of buy out by the well-off after
project completion.
4.7         Ihese rsk will be mitigated through:
(a)  transfer of utility coordination role to the City Council;
(b)   prvision of technical eWerts to strengthen the municipality and the government
in preparation and implementation of devolution of responsibilities to the City;
and
(c)   a fimncial assistance program put in place by the Govenmment for the urban poor
to buy or improve their dwellings.



-26 -
V &REEM R    AND
5.1        The folowing principal issues were discussed and agreed upon dunng
negotiations:
(a)  Implentation, as part of project execution, of administative, regulatory and
finanial reforms under a time-bound action plan, to stenen the city
adminitaon and improve its urba services (pan. 1.22). This will include:
(i) preparation and submission to the National Assembly bills setting up a
utlity coordinton unit in the city with enforcement authority (pam.
1.24), transerring trffic management and fire services within the city
limits to the City Council (para. 1.25) and improving city finances (par.
1.31);
(ii)  preping and implementng administrative directives strengthening uban
planning and coordination and adopting apprpriate provisions of CUBIC
to minimize hurricane risks (pam. 1.23), improving security in the city
(pan. 1.25), transferring to the city enforcement authority of Public
Health, Sanitation and Environmental Protection Laws and Regulations,
and establishing ambulance services in the city (pa>. 1.26), and
strengthening city ainistaon and setting up a procurement unit (panas.
1.27 and 1.28);
(iii)  Bank and the Government carrying out a yearly review of the city
investment and recurnt expendiures (1.29);
(iv)  determining accounting, auditing, monitoring and reporting requirements,
and mid-term review (paras. 3.10 to 3.12); and
(v) setting up procurement procedures for works, goods and services financed
under the proposed Project (paras. 3.2 and 3.6).
5.2        Conditions of loan effectiveness include: the signing of the subsidiary agreement
(para. 1.22), furnishing to the Bank sasfactory draft bills to the submitted to the National
Assembly for traffic management and improvement of city finances (paeas. 1.25 and 1.31) and
appointment of a city manager, city engineer and financial manager (pam. 1.27).
5.3        During negotations, discussions were carried out and agreement reached on the
technical assistance terms of reference and equipment list (2.9), and implementation
arrangements (3.1).
5.4         Following agreements on the above conditions, the proposed Project would
provide a suitable basi for a loan of US$20.0 million equivalent on IBRD terms with 17 years
of matrity including a gace period of 5 years.



- 27 -
ANNu
ANNEX I     BEUZE ECONOMIC STATISTICS
ANNEX I     BELIZE VITAL STATISTICS
ANNEX mI    BELIZE CIT INCOME DISTRIBUTION
ANNEX IV    BELIZE CITY HOUSING OWNERSHIP
ANNEX V     DETAILED CITY MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECTIONS
ANNEX VI    DETAILD DISBURSEMENT TABLE
ANNEX VI    STRE  AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
ANNEX Vm    DRAINAGE, CANALS AND CREEKS IMPROVEMbENT
ANNEX IX    COASTAL PROTECTION AND WATERFRONT FACILITIES
ANNEX X     EQUIEPMNT LIST
ANNEX XI    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TERMS OF REFERENCE
ANNEX Xli    ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
ANNEX XII   IMPACT INDICATORS
ANNEX XIV    PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ANNEX XV    RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES
CHARIS
CHART I     ORGANIZATION OF BELUE CITY COUNCIL
CHART II    PROJECT IMPLEMNTATION SCHEDULE
MAP I       IBRD No. 25267 BELIZE AND BEI-ZE CITY
MAP IIEBRD No. 25268 BELIZE CITY STREET AND TRAFFC MANAGEMENT
MAP m       IBRD No. 25269 BIE CITY DRAINAGE, CANALS AND COASTAL WORKS



-28 -
ANNEX 
IEU
BELIZEClIL FlAsucnL
(BZ$ million)
.....................................*  @o v*^w........................................................................................
1980    1981    1982    1983    190 4    1985    1986    198    1988    1989   1990    1991    1992
............................................. ...........................................................................................
COP at leter Cost                 340.3  340.2  314.5  333.6  371.3  366.2   390.6  477.4  528.8  6"9.4   68.3   7.S   768.0
Prigmy Activities                  94.2    89.7    71.6   73.0   78.5    75.9   81.7  109.1   118.3   130.2  146.4  143.7  158.0
Wicuture                         78.5    70.8    32.6   53.2   58.6   54.9   61.9   81.7    ".2   "9.3   112.6  100.3  108.4
Forestry and Leggi                8.0     6.6     7.3     6.3     7.4     6.8     4.7   10.1    10.8   13.3   15.4    20.6   22.1
Fishing                           6.9    11.5    10.9   13.5   11.4    12.9   13.6   15.3   15.0    14.7   14.3    17.2   21.4
Rining                            0.8     0.8     0.8      1.0    1.1      1.3     1.6     1.9     2.Z     3.0    4.1      5.6    8.1
Secondary Activities    104.4   92.6    75.5   79.    99.2    90.1   94.8  130.4   149.0  167.5   175.3  178.7  189.4
...... ..... _... .......... .    ....... .....   ...... .....  ...... .....  ...... .....   ...... .....   ...... ..... ................. ......... ..........
Namafcttuing                    81.4    69.2   S1.9   60.9   73.0   61.2   61.2  8a.9   98.3   105.6  1O61    97.4  101.4
tlectricty       etor             3.3     2.7     5.0     2.5     6.2     9.2    13.3   14.9   16.9   15.6   15.4    19.2   23.7
Corution                         19.6   20.7    18.7   16.4   20.0   19.7   20.3   26.6   33.8    46.1   53.8   62.1                .3
teriay Activitfes                 153.3   172.2  179.8  192.6  206.1  210.4  226.3  .252.4  212.7  342.2  379.2  415.2  4S4.8
,...................      .       ....... .....   ....... .....   ...... .....   ...... .....   ...... .....   ...... .....   ...... ..... ... ...... ..................... ..........
Trads nd Taurus                  5r.?   60.4    53.6   52.3   57.4   56.3   62.3   73.1    86.7  106.8 127I.0  131.7  136.0
Trasprt                          17     21.9   24.1   29.3   32.3   35.1   40.9   48.0   48.7   61.3    72.5   81.4   90.7
Finane                           U14.3    18.7   16.8   16.6   17.4   19.3   17.2   16.9   22.0   33.1   31.0   41.2   46.7
1eet Estate                      17.9    19.1    18.7   20.0   21.3   21.7   22.9   23.6    26.6   31.6   32.9   35.5   38.?
ublic Adminlstration             24.4    27.4   34.6   39.3   41.3    41.?   45.5   51.5   57.0   43.5   69.4   77.3   90.1
other Service                    21.8   24.6   32.0   35.1   36.4   36.3   37.6   39.4    41.7   43.0   46.3   48.1   50.6
t d  Banking
ervice Chares                    11.5    14.3   12.4    11.8   12.4   10.2   12.1    14.5   21.2    30.6   32.5   32.1   34.2
Wet Indirec TOM                    49.1   4S.6   44.0   *4.3   50.3   52.2   62.9  7ns    9.5   112.8  117.S  134.4  143.0
GM at Market Prices               359.4  385.8  358.S  378.0  421.8  418.4  453.5  551.2  627.3   722.2  75S.8  839.9  911.0
...... ........__.......................... ...... .......... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... ......... ...... .... ........... .... ........ ........... ........



-29 -
ANNEXI
Bi:UZE llf  WIISTEU
BIA110F&    vrAL STAIUMMC, Lgo-1w1
1980    1985    1986      1987      1988     1989     1990     1991
Total Pboplaton (end year)  145,35   166,21  170,382   175,133  179,814  183,200  187,938   193,384
9       3
ru  Birth. RAt (per o1000)    43.1    35.6      36.0     34.9      35.2     37.2     35.0     32.2
Crud Death, Rate (per 1000)    4.9     4.2      4.0       3.9       3.9      42       4.0      3.6
RtWe of Natld increase        38.2    31.4      42.0     31.0      31.2     33.0     31.0     28.6
Tot Births *                 6,264   5,916    6,136     6,121    6,325    6,810    6,581      6,266
Totd Deathd                    717     693      688       675      708      762       751      694
Naural Irease                S,547   S,223   5,4486     S,446    5,617    6,048    5,830      5,572
Net Mwatioa                 (2,606)  (1,054)    (677    (785)  (2,231)  (1,186)    (839)
Not Popuation Incso         148,30  170,38  175,153   179,814  183,200  188,062  193,053
0       2
nntDeaths                      180     122      142       127      128       132      133       94
nfant Monality Riae           28.7    20.6      23.1     20.7      20.2    19.4      20.2      15.0
YI Live birth
Note Popublatio esm    for 1989 and 1990 were based on the 1980 census. Adjustries are  octect renhlts of the
1990 cnsus are  aliad.
Souc: Cental Stisical Office
Sourco: Registrar Genea Office: Vita Statistic data is defive



- 30 -
ANNU m
BELZ   InRAEUE
INCO-ME DSRBlO
(RZ$ millon)
Q. _ ...~...._. M...:.......:  4 !k.~    1 VP 'R  C'    '  ;   IC            C UM
REORTED INCOME                 17295                           100
0 TO $1440                        119           119            0.7            0.7
$1440 TO $2880                   424            543            2.4            3.1
$2880 TO $4319                  1268           1811            7.3           10.5
$4320 TO $5759                  1436           3247            8.2            18.8
55760 TO $7200                  1734           4981            9.9           28.8
$7200 1T $8649                  1615           6596            9.2           38.1
$8640 TO $10080                 1019           7615            5.8           44.0
$10080 TO $11520                 740           83S5            4,2           48.3
$11542 TO $1290                  709           9064            4.1           52.4
$12960 TO $14400                 415           9479            2.4           54.8
$14400 TO $15840                 440           9919            2.5           57.4
$15840 TO $17280                 220          10139            1.3           58.6
$18280 TO $20160                 322          10461            1.8           60.5
$20160 TO $24480                 347          10808            2.0           62.5
> > $24480                       237          11045            1.3           63.9
NOT STATED                      6250          17295           35.7           100.0
soure:t VYI        afy mSUS  'Ue



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
BEL ~ ~ ~ E1
BEUZEY CD!EAS
BELZE HCM EHO
OWNERSHIP
ITrAL                                                     12403
OWN/HIRE/PURCHASE                                          63
SQUArlED                                                    52
RENTED-PRIVATE                                             440
RENTED-GOVEtNUMENT                                         358
LEASED                                                      74
RENT-FREE                        871
NOTr STATED                                                 16
OTHER                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26
I ______'___-____-   ___ -___ -_                        DW AEL NG
T(rAL                                                     12403
UNDIVIDED PRIVATE HOUSE                                   840
PART OF PRIVATE HOUSE                                      1804
FLATIAPARTMENT CONDO                                       S66
1203
DOUBLB H/DUPLEX
310
COMB BUS AND DWELING
58
BARRACKS
53
OTHER
0
NOT STATED
Source:1991 Poplation Ceosus
MajorFidings



- 32 -
.V
Page 1 of 3
BEI=zl
BELIZE CEY ISIbCi: m OE
ANNEX V
TABUL A
PROPERTY TAX REVENUES 1994 - DELIZE CITY
(Beliz Dollar, 1993)
even  Scena8os Aftr Reforms
Property  1994              bim   1                aSenio 2
Tax       Rewenues witbout   100% coverage       100% coverage of city
Ca"".   foms                of city prop         p. Markt Viau
1/            2/                 3/          &Unifomr 2.4% rte
.~~~~~~~~~~
lit             971,250             1,037,168              6,840,288
2nd.           1,727,250            1,844,346              7,602,336
3rd.            425,250              454,467                 963,000
4tL              194,250             209,346                 518,400
Stb              918,225             980,394               2,541,6Q0
4,236,225           4,525,721              18,465,624
Source: World Bank Mision to Belize, May-June, 1993
Notes:
1/ Property Tax categories and the cunent average effective tax rate for each
category (n parentheses):
First Category: Residential Rented   L ...... ........... (0.0125)
Second Category: Residential Owned ....................... (0.0170)
T hird C ategory: Commercial . ........... ... .... (0.0281)
Fourth Category: Industrial ..................... . . (0.(O2'74)
Fifth Category: Vacant lots       ....     ....... . (O.0240)
For the case of vacant lots, the average effective tax rate the current lepal rate
(2.4%).



- 33 -
Page 2 ut 3
The current tax compliance rate (acwtual revenues/total tax bill) is 80%
aprxmtl.
ANNEX V
TAB-LE B
FINANCING NEW CrrY RBSPONSB1xnES BEUZE CITY 1994
Projectons afer implemeto of zecommnde Tax Reform
(ousand of B o dolla 1993)
- Ptopety  .......                     18,466
- Vecle eiston Fee    .................... 20
- Fines  2/ ................ ..  855
- Other  3/     .      ... . o. ............... 27
Tot Yeady Cuzmt Income                         20,468
RUt lxpiditues as of 1993 meled bo 1994
BZ
- Major's O(MC. .                                    18,466
- FinAnce Departme.      .                             959
- Valuatio D ivisio.                                    35
ii*- Mataget.                                           42
-Envirowneata Division                                1475
- Meb. Divisio      ..                                1928
- H .eah..                                              37
SubTotd Recwat Expenditures as of 1993 .     ..................................  5093
* Veicnd ismet adln7
- Vem    itsa pUI ................. 773
-Upgrade land/buildins ...........                    1743
- Street and drain ...............                    2419
- Miscellaneous ...................                      5
Subtotl m_untenance and investmeVt   .     .....................................  4940
Tota yeay expendit1res           .       .      ............     (10033)
Balance aailable for   nfor new cit  m    bitiesii 4..............    10435
urce: Mission May-jum 199ne



-34-
ANNEXV
Page 3 of 3
Notes:
1/ Assuming 34% of tota vehicles registration takes place in Belize City and
the same percentage of total revenue from vehicle registration would accrue to
Beize City after proposed tansfer.
2/ Includes Court Fines (Z$495) and Traffic Fines (BZ$360).
3/ Revenues from ship generated waste.
4/ New responsibilities will imply additional expenses including appointng and
training qualified peromnel for:
- City Manager
- City Engineer
- Financia Manager
- Public Health, Sanitation & Environment Prection Manager & Personnel
- Procurement Unit
- Utlity Coordinaton Unit
- Tax Administation Unit (valuation, enforcement, operaional systems)
- Ambulance Personnel
- Firemen, professiona ad voluntary personnel
- Special Constables



- 35 -
ANl! VI
BELIZE
Belize City Infrastructure Project
Disbursement Schedul
(US$ Million)
BANK GROUP FISCAL YEAR AND                 QUARTER             CUM. DISBURSEMENTS AT
QUARTER ENDING                                                  END OF QUARTER
1994
MARCH 31, 1994                                  1.00                        1.00
JUNE 31, 1994                                   1.00                       2.00
1995
SEPT. 31,1994                                   1.00                       3.00
DEC. 31,1994                                    1.00                       4.00
MARCH 31, 1995                                  1.00                       5.00
JUNE 30, 1995                                   1.20                       6.20
1996
SEPT. 31, 1995                                 2.00                        8.20
DEC. 31, 1995                                  2.00                        10.20
MARCH 31, 1996                                 2.00                        12.20
JUNE 30, 1996                                   1.80                       14.00
1997
SEPT. 31, 1996                                  1.50                       15.50
DEC. 31,1996                                    1.50                       17.00
MARCH 31, 1997                                  1.50                       18.50
JUNE 30, 1997                                   1.50                       20.00
CLOSING DATE: DECEMBER 31, 1997



-36 -
Page 1 of 2
B2ELIEI1 EIZETR &NA
SIMEI AND TRAEFI  mA A
Traffic Management & Roads - Capital Costs
Wadc                           Dascriton                              Estimated Cost
P_k_  .,z_ .BS
r   1    ACCIDENT PREVNTVION & TRAFFIC DISIUTION
Junctions & Link Roads
* Beloan ncl 400 m P M Drive)                                       2,164,00
* CAB (e4can - Cemetey Rd)                                         1,252,000
* Vemon st                                                           I6,000
* Orng at                                                           430,000
* Cinderell PIaZa                                                   219,000
* Swing dridge Aocess 
Sub-tot                                                             5,055,00
Accident preventon mea Schoolk
* 3200 M sidewalk                                                   640,000
New Street: Dasoule bridge approach
* 450 m of new road                                                1,207,000
nner Distributor Road
* Cemetey Road C70 m)                                               646,000
* Magazine Rd (450 m)                                               428,000
* Kng St (400 m)                                                    248,0Q0
* Water Ln/Akxalznd  St (200 m)                                     190,000
* Mosul St (150 m)                                                  143,000
* Mapp St (200 m)                                                   190,000
* Notth Front St - pat (200 m)                                      133,000
* Doi*lu1s Jones St (350 m)                                         333,000
* Fredo Rd (550 m)                                                  23
Sub-total                                                          2,834,000
Pedetian & Cycle Routes
* Kut Ave (250 m)                                                   185,000
* Euphrates Ave (800 m)                                             609,000
* Den/Igiua  St (800 m)                                             596,000
*  lyann St (150 m)                                                 111.000
* New Rd (550 m)                                                    466,000
* Regent St West (100 m)                                             74,000
* Dolphin St (800 m)                                                596,000
* Trffic managSmen t
Sub-ota                                                            2,68;,0QO
Pedesian & Cyt facilhies - 4 m width
* Central Amrican Blvd. (800 m)                                     320,000
* P Maret Drive (1000 m)                                            400,000
* Nother Highway (1000 m)                                           400,000
* Caesar Ridge Rd (950 m)                                           380
Sub-total                                                          1,500,000
.TOAL Work Pge 1                                                 '13,923,000



-37 -
ANNE YU
Page 2 of 2
BELIZE
BEIJZ13 11DABASTRUIEM
STRET ND TRAEM MANAGEEG
Traffic Management & Roads - Capital Costs
Work                     Decription                             Estimat Cos
Padksge                                                              BzS_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   _
2     FURTHER ACCIDENT PREVENTION & TRAFFIC
DISTRIUTION
* Nouth Front St (650 m)                                           500,000
* Vctoria St (450 m)                                               428,000
* FPeuDWn Rd (350 m)                                               333,000
* Banok Rd (450 m)                                                 428,000
* Hydes LAe (310 m)                                                192,000
* Colet Cl rads & bridges                                         1,000,000
* Tnrffic ins s                                                    100.0
TOTAL Work Packap 2                                               2,981,000
3     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS - PART I
* Abet SL & Regest St (00 m)                                       701,000
* Southrn Foreshore (500 m)                                        383,000
* Oher Ste E-W (2300 m)                                           l,llS,OO0
* Amenity Lightng (100 No)                                         500,000
* Str  Furni t                                                     200e
TOTAL Work Packaeg 3                                               2,899,00
GRAND TOTAL ROADS & TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT                           19,803,000
0_--                                     M=0(



- 38 -
aEIZE C=ls IASTRUXCTR
D1WAME. CANAS AMD CREEB IMMEVEWMT
Work Package    Description                                      Estimated
___________ ____________________________                          Cost BZ$
SDI        Dredging (CoDlet Canal & Outfall)                1,390,000
SD2        Link Canals - Group 1
Trench Town - N Creek                     1,430,000
Prisoner Creek - N Creek                  1,050,000
North Creek dredging                        175000
Total                                           2,661,000
SD3        Link Canals - Group 2
.Haulover Creek - St. John's
Coltege (Ptincess Margaret
Drive)                                    1,058,000
Haulova Creek -
Buttonwood Bay
(W. Landiver)                               $12,
Total                                           1,570,000
SD4        New Canals - Group 1
Douglas Jones Street -
Cindere  Plaza - Baymen
Avenue                                          3,530,000
SD5        New Canals - Group 2
St. Thomas Street                               3,330,000
SDB        Southside Canal Lining
(including roadworks)                           4,334,000
GRAND TOTAL (STORMWATER DRAINAGE)                         16,815,000



- 39 -
ANN4EX IX
BEUZE
BELIZE M RMSII8E
COAStAL PROTECT[ON AND WAERIONT FA!CULlIE
Work Package    Description                                       Estimated
__________ _____________________________                          Cost US$
CP4        Lighthouse to Swing Bridge
*     sheetpile & anchor wall
|  *  sidewalk & enhancement
; * dredging for boats
Total                                            2,267,000
CP8        Haulover Creek Boardwalk &
X ______         3Jetties (3000 m)                                  900,000
GRAND TOTAL (COASTAL)                            3,167,000



- 40 -
ANNE X
BELJZE
mELIZE CIT IFRASUR1E
EQtENT LIST
No   Equipment Type                 Cost US$
1    Bitumen tanker                 225,000
with spray bar
2    Four Wheel Drive veh.           60,000
1    Tipper Truck St                 50,000
1    Front end loader                85,000
l_____ with back hoe        _
1    Road roller                     80,000
2    Trucks 1St                     220,000
2    Tractors                        36,000
1    Dragline excavator             200,000
1    Pickup truck                    12,000
1    Water tender                   120,000
I    Mud pump                        32,000
1    Asphalt etle                    74,000
1    High Pressure Jetting           30,000
Pump
I    Gzader                         220,000
1    Cement mixer          __8,000
I    Smal roler                      10,000
1    Mobile welder                    8,000
1    Dumper                          12,000
1    Compressor                      86,000
TOTAL US$                    1,568,000



-41 -
Page 1 of 2
iiEmE
TECHNCL MSISTND=
OLEINERMS OFERENCE
1.          Belize City council will need techical asstance to carry out
proper infrastructure maintenance opertons, taffic management,
administative and financial maagement, and train its peonnel.
2.          Tem                                  L&ngh of Seices
(Man-Months)
Seet and Traffic Expert                    12
Drainage and Marine Stwucres Expert        12
Financial/Accounting Expert                A
TOTAL                   30
3.          Each expert should be a profssional in his/her area of
exrse and should have:
(a)   Fluency m spoken and wrtten English;
(b)   Training experise in his/her field;
(c)   Work expience in a developing country.
d and uImff Ex
4.          He/She should be a civil engineer with extenaive experence in:
(a) mana8ement of road and street contrucion and maintenance; (b)
operation and maintenance of road equipment; and (c) traffic management
and control including system design. He/she should assist in:
(i)   prepaing street and traffic maintenance programs,
(ii)  preparing bids, letting out contracts and supevsn the
works;



-42 -
Page 2 of 2
(iti)  orgai'mg sueet and traflc maintenance brgades; and
(iv)  proding on-the-job training to managers, technical
staff and equipment operators
Dkiae and Ladeu Struc    Expr
5.          He/she should be a civil engineer with extensive experience in
coastl definse and canal structures in: (a) canal works and coast zone
management and protection; and (b) oPeration and maintenance of drainage
works. He/she should assist in:
(i)   canals and coastal works maintenance programs;
(ii)  preparing bids, letting out contr cts and supervising the
works; and
(iiD) providing on-the job training;
Emal{Accuntin      nr
6.          H/she should be an accountant with extensive xperience in
public adminon and management with special expertise in: (a) financial
accounting and bookkeeping of public sector institutions; (b) setting up
m.anagement inforniadon systems for such institutions; (c) budgeting and
audit reviews. He/she should assist in:
(i)   strengthening of management and cost recovery
procdures
(ii)  streamlining and implementation of proper budget
methods
(iii) setting up an accrual accounting system for city
expenditures and revenues.
(iv)  assist m setting up proper rea estate valuation methods
(v)   provide on-the-job training



-43 -
AN XH
Page 1 of 2
ECONO-MIC ALYSI
1.          The major eownomic benefits of this infrastructure program are
derived from: (1) road: less taffic accidents, lower road maintenance, lower
vehicle opeating costs, less flooding as a result of better side drains; (2) canal:
less flooding and better health; (3) coastal protection: less future maintenance
and lower flooding risks; (4) direct employment benefits as result of the
program execution; and (5) tourist benefits as a result of a more liveable and
safer Beize City, so that some of the visiting tourists in the country will take
some time to view the city. The economic anaylis is shown on the attached
table.
2.          A sensitivity analysis was undertk  by changing some of the
cost and benefit factos.
The results follows:
EIRR
(a) Base case program                            33.1%
0b) Excluding the potential tourism benefits     23.7%
(c) Excluding any project employment benefits    25.1%
(d) 10% lower benefits and 10% higher costs      23.6%
(e) 10% less benefits, 10% higher costs, no tourism  14.3%
(f) 20% less benefits and 20 % higher costs       16.4%
(g) the first phase (the project), excluding tourism  19 %
(h) the program with minor health improvements   34 %



^; r:, ,.q. '9
^1';i<' ~ 119   OA M+0O-&                            &       .1 61          "      411      G       m       &      la
,t,~~~~t        lm      a        m     a        n    a A4I                &        .3      &0       m      t"     *1       t
'6.~~~~~o ..             A        s    a         s IS L8 l                 AO      44       A       s       esIo          -
s~~~~~o         &W      Om'.&4                 U      M     4A      "      11       I       GO     IO      2O Im          M
20    4.6  0       U1 Ul         U7    OM    &2    *A    0.f                         71      124    #A      II.1
2M    4A      0.00  ^0.0             30010   OAt6 "0.    OM       n           QZ .t              IM    &M        a?1
an    La        s4 QO        O      0.7    &0t   &       am  QOta ."          a.eo    Ioso S."    11. *
am#   S."    QO47   Q31S            too      ^     4 Omt am             4.64     UID    t.O      tS    tot       2
zSW a1 o4 Ql1         GAS            1t2    G=    0".2    aW    ano tj0    IMt 1.0                               WU
no   so        o1    alt    0       ZISO   &= 0 "4    &M    Ou                           7. t1 0  14At   to#   ttS
tZag  AM    #.So    an         X    CMA    *S            GM 1    0.3   t.22                     0.06   I.o n.# 
am     t        291   0.3 01  0 Q     JI *.00            Om4 OUt 0.#0                            MIS t.|0        M3
201t  4s      OwtU   a."             WSi   OAS Q0  .24   Q#    Q20                       7.tO    14.6t   1.0    1&43
4n      m     Us    0.470.6 ^S    GM  Q02                       Q2 0. 26                 7.10    1446   Xt    t.t
0141  4JO    0.24   Q2tt              76   Q02  0Q24   QO    Q.X                        7.tO    12.V   1.0       Me
am    &0   Q.26    Om070   OM0 0.24 QC0    621                                           t.s0  12.63   Si  X.2M
2001   SX4    Q.t   Q 4             2."    04    a24             an M2 .O    tlOt   toW    UL3 
OWS    964    0.26    OA             I.W    OM3  0Q3    OM    0.20 Q?b .to   *a111   1O    *1J
6ff t      0.31)   OS4           2"   Qam   Q24   co"    Q20                         t.0    lLn    tllt   IL"|
am     66     0.32    0QX           1.24t ON2 &N    &W    am                             7.tO    t40$   1.74   tLS
0%OM C   0.2 Q4WS QMORO              Aft          =1"m          0.M                            &*A10              I. 1# 4
GMAOOtO JWW                          I"                      Q24 &7X|01.?%. 2
t01$ " QN 0.61 0." "4 0M 0.S"7.tO  US t.                              ILM
1014    04    O.B    O;l6   ato 0.04    .#    QO Q211                .tO    ue4   ae t4AI



FPrauidstsICgterIa            1      MTi ic dAtet        P?bok Rlaw 3b         b         WAist MP iles 
b be  eu                                           ..  .                                                                      . ..
Units                          Number of tmd  nocidt    Numb.t oa  (zotaltl               MIb adip (alit) from    Numr of populm
Per yea. (Falida and      mousdlybj) jrosa     BDOD, COD an pbosde                    goo" dw*ig rmy
CUW)                    4ilAm od sok (*Ak                                           AlMUM
. " _-___________ _                        .  _5undeiS yean   oid)  ,                                 _
TartC*I   Ars                   Cty Catw                  Berno ciy Omes                 MatUh of fauloe              MatW  SUare Ar
BDseE. Data
t988                             353                          2859                       not avaibl                    60
1989                              526                         2725                      nat naible                     65
1990                              643                         320l                      not aaiab                      6S
1991                              588                         S02                        A  "Ml"b                      66
1992                              622                         3500 i0                                                  68
CeusraivoDat .Owing
1996
1996
Sore of Dt:  Dai; Darien of Staitc



DILzEx CITY ZIOMUPC        PROnJbCT
Izeoutiom lnogiaa
Perfommaoe largets
(Cmuative P.@.ataqg)
__._ _______      1 | Ib -993  1994              1995                1996
. _______            3   4  1  2   3   4   1    2   3   4    1   2    3   4
1- Procuremnt(%)        50 55 -          80  -    -         100  _   _    _   _
2- Works
a) Streets/Traffic
-proveme(entS       - _     15  33  49  66  68   71  73  76   82  88   94  100
b) Drainage
- Improvements (*3  _   _   10 20  30  40. 49   59  68  78   83  89   94  100
C) Coastal
Protection
- Improvements (%)  _   _   _    _    _      _    _     _    _   25  50   75  100
3- supervision
of Works             _12  25 32  50  56   62  68  75   81  87   93  100
4- T.A.
Institutions (      _)  10 _  20  30  40  50   60  70  80   90  100  _
o- Equipment-  _                        -    100- _         -         _  _   
-Procurezent (4)   _ __25 50  _    0                    



-47 -
L,ZE Cm RUZ S0|
elated Documents and Dta Available in the Proect File
1.   Deailed Engieering (Volumes 1 to 20 August 1993)
2.   Bdding Documents (Volumes 1 to 20 August 1993)
3.    Feaibility Studies (Volumes 1 to 4 Febnuary 1993)
4.    Greater Beiz City, Sategic Growth Plan (August 1992)
5.    Consultants LOI and Bidding Dcuments (luly 1992)
6.    CDB Water and Sewerage Project (April 1991)
7.    Belize City, Plan for the Development of Tourism (November 1990)
8.    Water Supply Expnsion Study (July 1990)
9.    Trasport Sector Planning Study (October 1990)
10.  Belize City, Land Use Policy Guidelines (December 1990)
11.   CDB SAR Airport Imprvemnts (March 1988)
12. Belize City Transport Issues (August 1988)
13.   Kings Park and Port Loyola Drainage Project (Octobe 1987)
14. Surfice Water Drainage Study (Volumes 1 & 2 October 1983)



I        I1
181I
IW        L____
t               -   -_    
I        -l
3      i   Uf i.
Sn -  -  - - ~~- - -  -



ITra                   ACTMVTY                               1993            194 -                   1995-                   1996-
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   3  4  1 2  3,  -  1    2     3     4     1    2    13     4
Low                    SIGNING (0106/130)
EFPECUWIVSS (00 t13)                                                             .              __I__
STREET/TRAFF IC        BID PPAMATIOU (COSITRAaTS)
CREIIABILITATION)      310 EVAL/      (603ABRD)
CT1UCT tU (COUTUtCIO)
tiuoRA E s)            3OM FEVARATM  (CUITRCTOS)                            11         I     I1I                               - L       
(INPRoWIIs)            BID EVALMANMD (606/16)f                                   j j-          i1              z      ~     .-      -     -
CONSTIRUCTION (CONTRACTORS)
suPEvisiU              SOPRVISIIN CCUISUTAN)11                                                                          1
INSTIWUTIONAL          PROPOSALS (COUSULTANITS)
(T.A.ITRAININS)        BID EVAL/MAP (SI0/1SR)                                          I -  =
EXEUTO  CCONSULTANTS)
EIuIP9EUT        BID PIERITIOM cswnfltl s)
(MATEBIALS)            l10 VUAL/hM  (GOS/IPO)
OIL IVWB (SWft IllS



MAP SECTION
( >,



IBRD 22
w so                  fS8' h,h,.e,4    to, ~~~~~~~m E x I C    (
m   e   x   I c  o 0                                  *      
2   t.,r J 4q, i , ir            4
ScnAniono  , < | CROZAL  r'- /h
L                 pnw IAu1^/ve___*   fA
!NeSanFel~~~~~~Felp7       e                1;Sn 
j OR4G    hlALK              (                d
i  JDISTR CT                        a$.           .   
,,.3,,g ! !DRoia ffi.l ~~~E L                                                                            E1 '" 30.
_;   *_---_'   z)  Y  _,F,>,,S   GFR    $ }         t  %\ ~TURNfEFE;
|  _ ~~~*t~~'  R         1t               '  /t>g S~~~~ISLANDS
|    */ J6sstnlgnc7  v,r  X   p.        ..       .                'B ~~~~~~~~~~E L I Z E
; _mw             8rrXnch~~~~~~ Mtddl       \              i                   BELIZE CITY
delwVPy ,5RCa .  n...... $                                               INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT ttr
I   {  d              i     ~~~~~~~~~STANN                                         MaD|g9   S j Shin Roads
i                /      ~~~~~~~~~C R E E K  p             !Othetr Roads
j              /     ~~~~~~~~D IS T R 1tr   >31                                  Notional Coptital
< .  /                    }   q,+           ;      }   fj        e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6    District Capitals
f z _ - R,.,,.d|. ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Towns and Villages
^   f   >      y      ,          X    I      P              *    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moysn Ruitns
i t 2 Lay,ltwaW \ i --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Boundaries
.   r  eXJ>~~~~~ Je             \         >  j  ~~~~~--* ~InWncionlal Bougnderes
g   r   ~~~~~~~~~~~ < SJ , X , to ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~630'.
j -       M - no 8a onk    ,                      /       ,               KILOMETERS Q 19  ?p  3,0  40  5,0
iTO L EDO   [.,Z,ejSTRICT                                                                       ibR,  io MIEQ   j '  
So sAnoanio   RF               J                         (                            ,      U.S.A. -   .z'''
| )< i 4 ~~~~~~~~~~SAPODtLLA CAYS                  **fr  ' ;-TH.W
j   Stotson< i v~~~~~~~~~~~~:   I   7= and tlns for t^
j   \         t;\>s                     asdw                    C5w               rt*1  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wupki
OCTOBER 1Y93



IBRD 25260
A 4   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~/BELIZE
,4-.   ..    /  >    BELIZE CITY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
BELIZE CITY STREET NEIWORK
AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
v             /      ss   X  a~~~~~~~~ CYCLIST CE           
%%70                                                      Joq                                  SR  ,,I_||
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{ : X, E / X ) 7 c_ li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                                                     rA S 
\ aSE/l '\~DXi:$ /gX'vfl                                                                                                                                    l,lE L. 
Caribbean    Sea
0   -0 -   t-    ',   ,/ *- *'      qCORRISOR IMPROABMEWS-                                 = WRi  0      CYCLIST FOOTEOGCI M WWP4
;OD    20  .- W, .,   4-  .  . 0  YM  . O  9   'D  W M                                                                                                           0   PEDE/STw.FRTIA   TCIYCEM   FOOTREIDG7EESS
,I       ;;n       ; : I   ,'I>  . - . eI> .-'. ' . . ^ & ''' - -- POEDSTPAN & CYCLS PPJORFr                                               .       -    COAST ROAD- WP4
ROUTES  WPL
ROADS -WPS
1-*4 PRRIACYCUST FACILTIES WPI
PEDESTRAN&CYCLISTPEOIIY
CORRUSE EPROWEMENS-WP               ROUTE - WVPS
TRAFFIC MANAGWEMUT CON CRIIER       RESDRNIAI STREETS -WPS
P.  ~ ~ ~~~AT  W3TKARA MAtAR-MEN CIT CDNTER
MARIPEPARADE                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAfFIC MANAGEMENT CfTY CENTER  PARTS 2 -PA
- PART 1 - WP4
OafOBa IM



IBRD 25269
TRENCH TOWN CANAL
PRISONER CREEK                 - - - - - - - - - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-   --   --     --   --   --   --   
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /
Z                                                           '                           xD>!-2'~~~~~zo' 
CV6             COXC.  -E                                                                                                                                         I!B    CITY
' 'N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~// /
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECr
, y   q<  g>COO:  Pcl    F            ,                BELIZE CIT DRAINAGE, CANALS AND
COASTAL PROTECTION WORKS
COASTAL PROJECIONWORKS
c  - - -   /  J  SUGAR STORE  \   $ jl                                                                                  _   COASTAL WORK PACKAGE JUNCnON
STORMWATFR DRANAGE WORK PACKAGES:
'   A      ;w  -d -I        -        Y                                    \                                Caribbean    Seal                                                       SD2
TOUPJSM                                                                                                                                   - - -   D53
b *Z w w 2 - w - - wS DEVELOPMW                                                                                                                             b-.- A--D7
- -   r , - K   0S>3 CWSIDI Plel dlai ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                    SO
.  fKRlfiotl&  Road                                                                                                        _ESTI4 CAINALS
006i55993



