Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3667 BEL
Loan Agreement
(Belize City Infrastructure Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 22, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3667 BEL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1993, between BELIZE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the  financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BCC" means the City Council of Belize City (as defined below) referred 
to in Chapter 66 of the laws of Belize;
(b)
"Belize City" means the area comprised within the boundaries set forth in 
the schedule to Statutory Instrument No. 24 of 1993, the Belize City (Redefinition of 
Boundaries) Order, 1993;
(c)
"Belize City Building Regulations" means the regulations contained in the 
Belize City Building Act, Chapter 102 of the Laws of Belize;
(d)
"Caribbean Unified Building Code" means the code published by the 
Caribbean Community Secretariat in Georgetown, Guyana in 1985;
(e)
"Central Housing and Planning Authority" means the Borrower's housing and 
planning authority under MUD (as defined below);
(f)
"Department of Transport" means the department of transport in the 
Borrower's Ministry of Energy and Communications;
(g)
"Draft City Tax Act" means a draft, satisfactory to the Bank, of a bill 
to amend the Towns Property Tax Act, Chapter 52 of the laws of Belize so as: (i) to 
modify the basis for the assessment of the property tax by abolishing the distinction 
between occupied and unoccupied property and introducing a system for the assessment 
of property tax based on the market value of the property; (ii) to adjust the rate of 
property tax as shall be needed to cover the cost of all services provided by BCC and 
for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure of Belize City; (iii) to 
extend registration and cadastral records to cover 100% of Belize City; and (iv) to 
improve tax collection and strengthen procedures for collection of tax arrears;
(h)
"Draft Traffic Act" means a draft, satisfactory to the Bank, of a bill: 
(i) to transfer the jurisdiction over traffic wardens within Belize City from the 
Department of Transport to BCC; (ii) to transfer the licensing and registration of 
motor vehicles within Belize City from the Department of Transport to BCC; (iii) to 
transfer all the remaining traffic management and control responsibilities for Belize 
City vested in the Department of Transport to BCC; and (iv) to establish the 
mechanisms for effective coordination between the Police Force (as defined below) and 
BCC for the enforcement of traffic laws within Belize City;
(i)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing on April 1 and 
ending on March 31 each year;
(j)
"MOW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works;
 
(k)
"MUD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, 
Cooperatives and Local Government;
(l)
"National Assembly" means the Borrower's legislative branch;
 
(m)
"Police Force" means the Borrower's police force established pursuant to 
the Police Act, Chapter 109 of the laws of Belize;
(n)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 8, 
1993 and June 16, 1993 between the Borrower and the Bank as amended on September 23, 
1993;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
Page  3
(p)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BCC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary  
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty million dollars 
($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank or a commercial bank acceptable 
to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, in the event 
the special deposit account is established in a commercial bank, appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
Page  4
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year.".
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out: (i) Parts A, B and C of the Project through MOW; and (ii) Part D of the Project 
through MUD with the assistance of BCC, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate economic, financial, administrative, engineering and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: (i) enter into a subsidiary agreement with BCC 
setting forth the Borrower's and BCC's responsibilities in the implementation of the 
Project, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank; and 
(ii) exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, 
and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
carry out Part D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; (ii) carry out the Project in accordance with 
performance targets and impact indicators satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) cause 
BCC to appoint, and thereafter during the Project implementation period maintain, a 
city manager, a city engineer and a city financial manager, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than March 31, July 31, September 30 and December 31 each year 
furnish to the Bank progress reports on the Project;
(b)
not later than February 28 each year, review with the Bank the 
investments proposed to be made by the Borrower and BCC in Belize City during the 
following Fiscal Year and the recurrent expenditures estimated to be incurred by BCC 
Page  5
during the following Fiscal Year; and
(c)
not later than June 30, 1995, review with the Bank its and BCC's progress 
in the implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and separate accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that BCC shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
BCC shall have appointed the city manager, the city engineer, and the 
Page  6
city financial manager referred to in Section 3.01 (c) (iii) of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank the Draft Traffic Act and 
the Draft City Tax Act; and
(c)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
BCC.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and BCC and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and BCC in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date March 22, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economic Development of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economic Development
Belmopan
Belize
Telex:
102 (FOREIGN BZ)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BELIZE
By /s/ Dean Russell Lindo
Authorized Representative
Page  7
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works              13,500,000        65%
(2)  Consultants'              1,800,000        100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Goods and                 1,700,000        100% of foreign
     materials                                  expenditures, and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)  Refunding of              1,000,000        Amounts due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5)  Unallocated               2,000,000
     TOTAL                    20,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and 
consultants services not exceeding $25,000 equivalent and under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the health and safety of the 
Belize City dwellers; (b) to preserve the ecology of Belize City and its surrounding 
areas; (c) to promote the economic development of Belize City and, in particular, its 
tourism; and (d) to improve infrastructure maintenance and the delivery of urban 
services in Belize City.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  8
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Street Network and Traffic Management Systems
 
(a)
Construction of continuous circulation loops with traffic linkages 
bypassing the Belize City center;
(b)
construction of one way grid systems;
 
(c)
construction of street drainage systems;
 
(d)
widening and strengthening of street pavements;
 
(e)
improvement of major street intersections, bridge approaches to and 
crossings of Haulover Creek;
(f)
construction of sidewalks and bicycle lanes;
 
(g)
construction of parking areas;
 
(h)
installation of traffic signalization systems, including signs and 
pavement markings; and
(i)
provision of street lighting.
 
Part B:
Canals and Creeks
 
(a)
Cleaning and dredging up to the sea outfall of Collet Canal, and 
improvement of crossings at Vernon, Cemetery, King, Dean, Racoon, Kut and Queen 
Charlotte streets;
(b)
dredging and lining of Southside Canal and its junction with Collet 
Canal, and improvements of its banks to provide parking space;
(c)
extension, dredging, and linking of Trench Town Canal, North Creek and 
Prisoner Creek and their connections to Collet Canal;
(d)
reconstruction of the Douglas Jones street, the Cinderalla Plaza, and the 
Baymen Avenue Canal;
(e)
linking and lining of St. John's College, Princess Margaret Drive, 
Buttonwood Bay and West Landivar Canals; and
(f)
linking of St. Thomas Street Canal with Haulover Creek, and the Belize 
City municipal airport outfall.
Part C:
Coastal Protection
 
(a)
Strengthening and improvement of the existing sea wall, rehabilitation of 
berth facilities, and construction of a boardwalk between the Fort George lighthouse 
and the Swing bridge;
(b)
repairs of the existing seawall, construction of a rock-fill coastal 
protection, a boardwalk and drainage outlets between the Swing bridge and Rectory 
Lane; and
(c)
dredging and construction of a rock-fill coastal protection of the Collet 
Canal outfall.
Part D:
Belize City Institutional Strengthening
 
(a)
Improvement of the organization, financial management and accounting 
practices of BCC;
(b)
training of BCC staff and managers in financial and technical management; 
and
(c)
improvement of the infrastructure maintenance operations of BCC.
 
* * *
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
August 1, 1998
470,000
February 1, 1999                          
485,000
August 1, 1999                            
505,000
February 1, 2000                          
525,000
August 1, 2000                            
545,000
February 1, 2001                          
565,000
August 1, 2001                            
585,000
February 1, 2002                          
605,000
August 1, 2002                            
630,000
February 1, 2003                          
650,000
August 1, 2003                            
675,000
February 1, 2004                          
700,000
August 1, 2004                            
730,000
February 1, 2005                          
755,000
August 1, 2005                            
785,000
February 1, 2006                          
810,000
August 1, 2006                            
840,000
February 1, 2007                          
875,000
August 1, 2007                            
905,000
February 1, 2008                          
940,000
August 1, 2008                            
975,000
February 1, 2009                        
    1,010,000
August 1, 2009                          
    1,050,000
February 1, 2010                        
    1,085,000
August 1, 2010                          
    1,125,000
February 1, 2011                        
    1,175,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                     
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                       
0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    
0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                     
1.00
Page  10
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one 
to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the 
bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with 
such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued 
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped into 
bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic and Regional Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, a margin of preference may be granted to bids offering goods which are 
manufactured to a substantial extent in any country, including Belize, which is a 
party to the Caribbean Common Market, the common market created by the General Treaty 
for the Caribbean Community signed at Chaguaramas, Trinidad and Tobago, on July 4, 
1970 by Antigua, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, 
Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevise-Anguille, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Trinidad and Tobago 
(hereinafter called the CARICOM), in accordance with, and subject to, the following 
provisions:
1.
For the purposes of Part B of this Section, the following definitions shall 
apply:
(a)
(i)
the term "Qualified CARICOM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer established in the territories of member countries, 
including Belize, of the CARICOM, for goods manufactured or 
processed in such territories and for which the bidders shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the entity or agency inviting 
bids that the manufacturing or processing cost of such goods 
include a value added in such territories equal to at least 20% of 
the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
(ii)
the term "non-Qualified CARICOM Bid" means a bid submitted by a 
manufacturer established in the territories of member countries, 
including Belize, of the CARICOM for goods manufactured or 
processed in such territories, other than any such bid classified 
as a Qualified CARICOM Bid; and
(iii)
the term "Foreign Bid" means any bid which is neither a Qualified 
CARICOM Bid or a Non-Qualified CARICOM Bid.
2.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted and shall set forth the information required to 
establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference.
Page  11
3.
Bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price of 
imported goods and the ex-factory price of locally manufactured goods.
4.
Except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be compared on the basis of 
their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted in accordance with 
paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 of the Guidelines.
5.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following 
groups: Qualified CARICOM Bids, Non-qualified CARICOM Bids or Foreign Bids.
6.
All bids in each group will be first compared among themselves, to determine the 
lowest evaluated bid in each such group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group will 
then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison, an evaluated 
qualified CARICOM Bid or Non-Qualified CARICOM Bid is the lowest it will be selected 
for purpose of award.
7.
If the lowest bid in the comparison under paragraph 6 above is a Foreign Bid, 
all Foreign Bids will be further compared with the lowest evaluated Qualified CARICOM 
Bid as determined under paragraph 6 above. For the purposes of this comparison only, 
each Foreign Bid will be compared on the basis of the sum of its c.i.f. (port of 
entry) price adjusted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 above, plus an 
amount equal to the smaller of: (i) the difference between the amount of customs 
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the 
importation of goods offered in such Foreign Bid and that applicable to a Qualified 
CARICOM Bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Qualified 
CARICOM Bid is the lowest  evaluated bid in such comparison, it shall be selected for 
the purpose of award; otherwise, the lowest evaluated Foreign Bid as determined under 
paragraph 6 above shall be so selected.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive Bidding:
 
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Without limitation to any other provisions in this Schedule, the following 
principles of procurement shall expressly govern all procurement of works referred to 
in this paragraph:
(a)
foreign contractors shall be allowed to bid on all contracts and shall 
not be required to be associated with local contractors;
(b)
bids shall be opened in public and their prices shall be read aloud; and
 
(c)
contracts must be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance 
with criteria clearly set forth in the bidding documents.
2.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts A.1 and C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  12
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure.
4.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). 
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant 
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other 
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent 
each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of 
reference for such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source 
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by 
the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $25,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $300,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
Page  13
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request,refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
Page  14
Action
Date (by)
 
1.
Submit to the National
Assembly a bill sub-
stantially in accordance
with the Draft Traffic
Act.
May 30, 1994
 
2.
If the acts referred to in
1 above and 10 (a) below are
enacted:
(a)
Appoint at least 12 special
constables under the juris-
diction of BCC to supplement
the Police Force in the dis-
charge of its responsibilities
for the maintenance of security,
law and order within Belize
City; and
(b)
make the necessary administra-
tive arrangements for coordina-
tion between the officer in
charge of the eastern division
of the Police Force and BCC for
the improved maintenance of
peace and security within
Belize City.
60 days after
the enactment of
the acts referred
to in 1 above,
and 10 (a) below
3.
(a)
Submit a bill to the National
Assembly to amend the Fire
Brigades Act, Chapter 108 of
the laws of Belize, so as to
transfer the responsibility for
the provision for fire services
within Belize City, and to trans-
fer the assets and personnel of
the Belize City fire stations,
from the Borrower's National
Fire Service to BCC; and
November 30, 1994
 
(b)
if the act referred to in 3 (a)
above is enacted, commence
implementation of a plan to
strengthen and promote the
system of voluntary firemen
to supplement the regular fire
services, and for the training
of voluntary firemen for Belize
City.
30 days after
enactment of the
act referred to
in 3 (a) above
4.
Establish, through the Central
Housing and Planning Authority,
a housing and planning committee
for Belize City, under the chair-
manship of the city manager of
Belize City, with powers and re-
sponsibilities acceptable to the
Bank, which shall include, inter
alia, the committee's authority
to make recommendations to the
Central Housing and Planning
Authority for planning and coor-
dination decisions regarding
Page  15
housing and other construction
projects in Belize City.
May 30, 1994
 
5.
(a)
Review the Caribbean
Unified Building Code
with a view to identi-
fying the provisions of
such code which may be
enacted by the Borrower
to complement or
supersede those of the
Belize City Building Regu-
lations and furnish to the
Bank the recommendations of
such review; and
June 30, 1994
 
(b)
take the necessary actions,
including, if needed, the
submission of a bill to the
National Assembly to imple-
ment the recommendations of
such review, taking into
account the comments, if
any, made by the Bank
September 30, 1994
thereon.
6.
(a)
Establish an ambulance
service for Belize City
under the jurisdiction
of BCC;
(b)
transfer the responsibi-
lities for environmental
protection within Belize
City from the Borrower's
Ministry of the Environ-
ment to BCC and appoint
environmental officers
for BCC staff;
(c)
transfer the responsibi-
lities for public health
control within Belize
City from the Borrower's
Ministry of Health to BCC
and appoint public health
officers for BCC staff; and 
November 30, 1994
 
(d)
if the services referred
to in (a), (b) and (c)
above are transferred to
BCC, cause BCC to appoint an
executive officer respon-
sible for the provision of
the ambulance, environmental
protection, and public health
services referred to in 6(a),
(b) and (c) above.
30 days after the
services referred
to in (a), (b)
and (c) above are
transferred to
BCC
7.
Establish a procurement unit
within BCC with powers and
responsibilities and staffing
acceptable to the Bank.
June 30, 1994
 
8.
(a)
Submit to the National
Assembly a bill to amend
the Belize City Council
Page  16
Act, Chapter 66 of the
Laws of Belize, to vest
in the Belize City Council
powers:
(i)
to coordinate the
activities of the
utilities and
property developers
within Belize City
in regard to the exe-
cution of works on
rights of ways in
streets, drains and
canals by such utilities
and developers, so as
to minimize the damage
caused to the Belize
City infrastructure by
such works; and
(ii)
to enforce the guide-
lines and procedures
for such coordination.
May 30, 1994
 
(b)
If the act referred to in
8 (a) above is enacted,
cause BCC to establish a
30 days after
unit to coordinate the
the enactment of
activities referred to in
the act referred
8 (a) (i) above.
to in 8 (a) above
 
9.
Cause the Belize Port Authority:
 
(a)
to commence to levy on behalf
of BCC a fee on vessels
using the Belize City port
for the discharge of solid
waste in such port; and
(b)
to remit the fees so
collected to BCC.
January 30, 1995
 
10.
(a)
Submit to the National
Assembly a bill sub-
stantially in accordance
with the Draft City
Tax Act; and
May 30, 1994
(b)
if the act referred to
in 10 (a) above is
enacted, appoint a
valuation officer
30 days after the
for the assessment of
enactment of the
property values within
act referred to
Belize City.
in 10 (a) above
