                           Document of
                        The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR2816



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-45370)



                               ON A

                              CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.9 MILLION (US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO THE

                    REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                              FOR AN

      EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT

                         December 20, 2013




AFTSE
AFCE4
Africa Region


                               1
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2013

                    Currency Unit = Malagasy Ariary (MGA)
                           MGA 2,190 = US$ 1.00


                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31



                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BIANCO   Independent office of Anti-Corruption/Bureau Indépendant Anti-Corruption
BNGRC    National Bureau for Risk and Catastrophe Management / Bureau National de
         Gestion des Risques et des Catastrophes
CDD      Community Driven Development
CDP      Community Development Project
CPGU     Unit for Emergency Prevention and Management / Cellule de Prevention et
         Gestion des Urgences
EFSRP    Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction Project
ESMF     Environmental and Social Management Framework
EWS      Early warning system
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FID      Intervention Fund for Development - Fonds d’Intervention pour le
         Développement
FM       Financial management
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INSTAT   National Statistics Institute of Madagascar
IRR      Internal rate of return
MAP      Madagascar Action Plan
MGA      Madagascar Ariary (national currency)
M&E      Monitoring and evaluation
NRMSPS   National Risk Management and Social Protection Strategy
PDO      Project Development Objective
UNICEF   The United Nations Children’s Fund



              Vice President:           Makhtar Diop
              Country Director:         Haleh Bridi
              Sector Manager:           Lynne Sherburne-Benz
              Project Team Leader:      Philippe Auffret
              ICR Team Leader:          Andrea Vermehren




                                       2
                                           MADAGASCAR
                           Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction Project



                                                             CONTENTS



A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................. 4
B. Key Dates .............................................................................................................................. 4
C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................. 4
D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................................... 5
E. Bank Staff .............................................................................................................................. 5
F. Results Framework Analysis ................................................................................................. 5
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................ 8
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................ 8
I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................................. 9
   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................. 10
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 12
   3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 17
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 23
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 23
   6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................ 25


   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 29
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 34
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 35
   Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36

  Map of Madagascar




                                                                      3
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Madagascar -
                                                                           Emergency Food
Country:                 Madagascar              Project Name:
                                                                           Security and
                                                                           Reconstruction Project
Project ID:              P113134                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-45370
ICR Date:                05/30/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                           MADAGASCAR
Original Total
                         XDR 26.90M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 26.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 26.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement (FID)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
      Process              Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:          09/04/2008   Effectiveness:                                  03/09/2009
Appraisal:               11/10/2008   Restructuring(s):
Approval:                12/16/2008   Mid-term Review:           07/31/2012               n.a.
                                      Closing:                   12/31/2011           06/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Moderate
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                      Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:                Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately satisfactory                            Highly Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately satisfactory                            Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                           QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                           Rating
      Performance                                    any)
 Potential Problem Project                       Quality at Entry
                           No                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any     No                    Quality of Supervision None
                                                 4
time (Yes/No):                                        (QSA):
DO rating before
                              Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector              17                     12
Other social services                                              31                     15
Primary education                                                  23                     30
Public administration- Other social services                       17                     17
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                           12                     26


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                         30                    42
Natural disaster management                                         43                    41
Rural services and infrastructure                                   27                    17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                           At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:               Makhtar Diop                     Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
Country Director:             Haleh Bindi                      Ruth Kagia
Sector Manager:               Lynne Sherburne-Benz             Lynne Sherburne-Benz
Project Team Leader:          Philippe Auffret                 Philippe Auffret
ICR Team Leader:              Andrea Vermehren
ICR Primary Author:           Julie Van Domelen

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project Development Objectives are to:
 (i) Increase access to short-term employment in targeted food-insecure areas; and
 (ii) Restore access to social and economic services following natural disasters in targeted
communities.

                             Original Target Values     Formally
                     Baseline                                         Actual Value Achieved at
     Indicator                    (from approval      Revised Target
                      Value                                          Completion or Target Years
                                    documents)           Values
(a) Project Outcome Indicator(s)
Indicator 1 :    Beneficiaries of cash-for-work program
Value                0                160,000                                 400,580
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                              June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %         250% of target achieved.
achievement)

                                                      5
                    Initiated social and economic services restored within 6 months following a natural
Indicator 2 :
                    disaster
Value                     0                >75%                                         100%
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                        June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %            133% of target achieved related to the final cyclone season covered by the Project.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                              Original Target Values     Formally
                    Baseline                                               Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator                      (from approval     Revised Target
                     Value                                               Completion or Target Years
                                    documents)            Values
Indicator 1 :      Person-days of cash-for-work manual labor in targeted food-insecure areas
Value                   0            7.8 million                                  9.94 million
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                      June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %           127% of target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Number of sub--projects completed under the social safety net program
Value                 0                1,600                                         2,123
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                      June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %           133% of target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3:       Kilometers of rural roads rehabilitated under the social safety net program
Value
(Quantitative or        0                480                                           6,226
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                      June 30, 2013
Comments
                   1296% of target achieved. A greater share of feeder roads were prioritized by the
(incl. %
                   community than expected at project outset.
achievement)




Indicator 4 : Percentage of female beneficiaries of safety net program
Value                         At least 50 percent                             61 percent
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %         122% of target achieved.
achievement)
                 Number of community based subproject and number of beneficiaries under the
Indicator 5 : community-driven basic infrastructure component
Value                0            152; 76,000                               157; 816,591
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                               June 30, 2013
                                                     6
                   103% and 1074% of target achieved. Number of beneficiaries is above target because
Comments
                   communities tended to prioritize feeder roads which have comparatively more
(incl. %
                   beneficiaries than other sub-project types and basis for calculating road beneficiaries
achievement)
                   changed.
                   Hectares of irrigated land rehabilitated under the community-driven infrastructure
Indicator 6 :
                   component
Value                  0                 3,100                                           2,190
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                      June 30, 2013
                   71% of target achieved. Indicator is below target as fewer communities than expected
Comments
                   prioritized irrigation projects. However, the target was to be used for monitoring but
(incl. %
                   not for evaluation as the community demand for types of subprojects could not be
achievement)
                   known ex-ante.
                   kilometers of rural roads rehabilitated under the community-driven infrastructure
Indicator 7 :
                   component
Value
(Quantitative or      0                 250                                        204 kms
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   June 30, 2013
Comments
                 82% of target achieved. The target was to be used for monitoring but not for evaluation
(incl. %
                 as the community demand for types of subprojects could not be known ex-ante.
achievement)
                 Number of social and economic basic infrastructures damaged by natural disasters
Indicator 8 :
                 rehabilitated or reconstructed
Value                                   210                                          331
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %         158% of target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Number of schools damaged by natural disasters reconstructed/rehabilitated
Value                                   123                                          291
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   June 30, 2013                210
Comments         237% of target achieved. The target was to be used for monitoring but not for
(incl. %         evaluation as the community demand for types of subprojects could not be known ex-
achievement) ante.
Indicator 10 : Number of classrooms damaged by natural disasters built and/or rehabilitated
Value
(Quantitative or                        307                                          918
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   June 30, 2013
Comments         299% of target achieved. The target was to be used for monitoring but not for
(incl. %         evaluation as the community demand for types of subprojects could not be known ex-
achievement) ante.
Indicator 11: Number of health centers damaged by natural disasters rehabilitated or reconstructed
Value
(Quantitative or                         30                                           10
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   June 30, 2013
Comments
                 33% of target achieved. The target was to be used for monitoring but not for evaluation
(incl. %
                 as the community demand for types of subprojects could not be known ex-ante.
achievement)
                                                     7
Indicator 12 :     Kilometers of rural roads rehabilitated
Value
(Quantitative or                          27                                       95
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   June 30, 2013
Comments         352% of target achieved. The target was to be used for monitoring but not for
(incl. %         evaluation as the community demand for types of subprojects could not be known ex-
achievement)     ante.
                 Project management costs as a percentage of disbursements. . The target was to be
Indicator 13 : used for monitoring but not for evaluation as the community demand for types of
                 subprojects could not be known ex-ante.
Value                                 < 15%                                          15%
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                   June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %         100% of target achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 14 : Percentage of subprojects completed within contracted period
Value                 75%        At least 75 percent                                   89%
(Quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                            June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %          119% of target achieved.
achievement)
                  Completion of technical audit, one impact evaluation, assessments of cash for work
Indicator 15 :
                  program and post-cyclone reconstruction and submission of unqualified audits
Value                  0                                                      All studies and audits
(Quantitative or                                                                    completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                            June 30, 2013
Comments
(incl. %          100% of target achieved.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                          IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1      06/16/2009              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  0.00
  2      09/22/2009              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  0.00
  3      04/23/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                  7.42
  4      10/19/2010              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                13.78
  5      03/21/2011              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                24.71
  6      12/24/2011              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                28.51
  7      06/23/2012              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                34.33
  8      12/22/2012              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                38.63
  9      06/22/2013              Satisfactory                Satisfactory                41.52

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

                                                     8
I. Disbursement Profile




                          9
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

This section summarizes the project context at the time of appraisal and Board approval.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Madagascar remains one of the poorest countries in the world, exposed to frequent natural
disasters and economic shocks. With close to 80 percent of the population living below $1.25
per day and over forty percent of children showing signs of chronic malnutrition,
Madagascar’s population of 21 million is particularly vulnerable to shocks. In 2008, at the
time the Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction Project was identified, the country
faced the devastating effects of international food and fuel price increases combined with a
highly destructive cyclone season. An IMF study identified Madagascar as one of the Sub-
Saharan countries most affected by the combined impact of the food and fuel price increases
due to reliance on imported fuel, a high transportation component of imports and reliance on
rice imports as a significant part of the consumption of the poorest households. Compounding
the economic crisis, in 2008 three consecutive cyclones affected 84 percent of the national
territory, causing economic losses equivalent to 4 percent of GDP, with the poorest
households and rural communities particularly hard hit.
The Bank supported the Government’s crisis response though a three-pronged approach. This
included a budget support operation to address the immediate economic impacts of the crises,
an additional financing operation to the existing IDA rural development project to support
agricultural recovery, and the Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction Project to
provide a safety net in targeted food-insecure areas and to reconstruct the infrastructure
damaged from the cyclones.
This response to the crises in 2008 was consistent with broader policies of the Government.
The Government’s poverty reduction strategy: the Madagascar Action Plan 2007-12 (MAP)
prioritized (i) improving nutrition and food security; (ii) improving support for very poor and
vulnerable segments of the population; and (iii) restoring basic social and economic
infrastructure in the aftermath of natural. To supplement effective implementation of policies
in the area of social protection, the Government, in collaboration with stakeholders and
partners led by the World Bank, had developed a National Risk Management and Social
Protection Strategy (NRMSPS) in 2007. Among the priority areas of the NRMSPS, the
strategy called for increasing revenues among vulnerable groups and identified labor-
intensive public works as interventions to respond to increased vulnerability during the pre-
harvest period and after natural disasters.
The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Madagascar for FY2007-2011
approved on March 7, 2007 sought to complement economic growth oriented activities with
activities aimed at increasing the availability of, and facilitating access to, services.
Specifically, it aimed to assist the government in improving revenue mobilization and
budgetary practices to help address the resource shortage and to scale up social programs,
achieve better outcomes in health and education, improve the management of weather shocks,
and gradually move service delivery closer to people. The crises of 2008 generated revisions
to the lending program to adequately address short-term shocks, including addition of the
Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction project, which was consistent with longer-term
Bank and Government strategies for Madagascar.




                                              10
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The Project Development Objectives are to: (i) increase access to short-term employment in
targeted food-insecure areas; and (ii) restore access to social and economic services following
natural disasters in targeted communities. To this end, the project supported four components
including (i) cash-for-work activities to increase access to short-term employment in targeted
food-insecure areas and communities affected by natural disasters, (ii) community based,
small-scale infrastructure investments targeted to the poorest communities, (iii) community-
driven basic infrastructure to restore social and economic services after natural disasters, and
(iv) project management, monitoring & evaluation, and auditing.

Key performance indicators of project outcomes and final targets:
a) Number of beneficiaries of the social safety net program to provide cash-for-work among
   poor segments of the population in targeted food insecure areas; and
b) Completion of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of at least 75 percent of the initiated
   sub-projects within six months.
Key performance indicators were:
a)   Number of person-days of cash-for-work manual labor in targeted food-insecure areas
b)   Number of completed sub-projects under the social safety net program
c)   Kilometers of rural roads rehabilitated under the safety net programa
d)   Percentage of women beneficiaries under the social safety net program
e)   Completed sub-projects and number of beneficiaries under the community-driven
     infrastructure component
f)   Hectares of irrigated land rehabilitated under the community-driven infrastructure
     componenta
g)    Kilometers of rural roads rehabilitated under the community-driven infrastructure
     componenta
h)   Number of social and economic basic infrastructures damaged by natural disasters
     rehabilitated or reconstructed
i)   Project management costs as a percentage of disbursements
j)   Percentage of subprojects completed within contracted period
k)   Completion of technical audits, impact evaluation, assessments of cash for work program
     and post-cyclone reconstruction and submission of unqualified audits.
a
 Target to be used for monitoring but not for evaluation purposes as final sector composition
was based on community demand which was not known ex-ante.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

N.A.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project aimed to benefit over 160,000 of the poorest households through cash-for-work in
targeted food insecure areas as well as communities affected by cyclones. Poor communities
were to benefit through the small-scale infrastructure constructed and rehabilitated. In
addition, agencies involved in cyclone rehabilitation would receive training in construction
standards and risk management and community associations would receive training and
hands-on experience in implementing sub-projects.

                                              11
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project was comprised of four components:
a) Social safety net (cash-for-work) to increase access to short-term employment in
   targeted food-insecure areas and communities affected by natural disasters as identified by
   the National Bureau for Risk and Catastrophe Management (Bureau National de Gestion
   des Risques et des Catastrophes, BNGRC). Labor-intensive sub-projects are identified by
   local authorities in collaboration with communities, focusing on soil erosion control,
   feeder roads, irrigation and cleaning of drainage canals. The labor component accounts for
   at least 75 percent of sub-project costs. Individual cash-for-work participants are selected
   through Community Targeting Committees. In order to optimize the safety net support,
   labor-intensive public works were programmed to coincide with the agricultural ‘lean
   season’, or pre-harvest time when rice prices peak and food is scarcer, or alternatively, in
   the period immediately following a natural disaster to stabilize consumption.
b) Community-driven basic infrastructure in the poorest communities. This component
   finances small-scale infrastructure investments targeted to the poorest communities and
   prioritized through local participatory planning processes. These community-based
   infrastructure sub-projects seek to increase access to social and economic services among
   participating communities.
c) Community-driven basic infrastructure in response to natural disasters. This
   component seeks to restore access to social and economic services in the aftermath of
   natural disasters, and in particular cyclones. The component targets communities in areas
   identified by the National Bureau for Risk and Catastrophe Management. Special attention
   is given to restoring social services, including schools, health centers and nutrition sites.
d) Project management, monitoring and evaluation, and auditing. This component
   finances project operating costs including training to project staff, communities and other
   implementing partners. It also supports effective monitoring and evaluation, including
   development of the Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement (FID)’s website,
   financial and technical audits and impact evaluations.
1.6 Revised Components
There were no formally revised components.
1.7 Other significant changes
There were no significant changes in design, scope or scale.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Design factors. The Bank’s safety net and reconstruction response built on its extensive social
protection experience in the country and the Africa Region. The Bank had supported the FID
since its creation in 1993 as an autonomous public agency to support investments in small-
scale infrastructure in the poorest communities in Madagascar. FID had experience in
previous natural disaster reconstruction and safety net operations and was the first
governmental program of its scope and size to work directly with communities and local
associations. The FID had executed four World Bank projects (FID I, II, III and the
Community Development Project (CDP) known as FID IV) for a total of US$278 million. By

                                              12
the end of 2008, FID had financed over 7,000 small-scale infrastructure projects in 84 percent
of the communes (local governments) in Madagascar.
The previous projects implemented by the FID had established mechanisms to reach out to
poor communities, deliver basic infrastructure and provide quick and flexible responses in the
aftermath of natural disasters. Community participation and mobilization was at the heart of
the operational procedures of the FID. The Implementation Completion and Results Report
(ICR) from the preceding CDP project found that working directly with communities is
appropriate in the context of Madagascar where the central government goes through
recurrent political crises and faces difficulties to reach communities, in part because of their
remoteness.
The CDP also developed procedures to coordinate the preparation and implementation of sub-
projects with sectoral policies. Moreover, FID had operational experience in capacity building
of rural and urban local governments to engage further in the development process, despite
limited overall progress on decentralization in Madagascar, where at the time of appraisal 95
percent of public expenditures were controlled by the central government with few
responsibilities vested to local control.
Some specific design changes were made based on previous experience. Labor intensity of
cash-for-work program was decreased from 80 to 75 percent as it was deemed too stringent,
limiting the types of investments possible. In addition, recommendations from the
Government’s June 2008 post-cyclone damage assessment report were incorporated,
including collaboration with the Cellule de Prevention et Gestion des Urgences (CPGU) to
incorporate cyclone-proof norms and standards in the design of sub-projects.
Quality at entry – focus on results. The EFSRP was included in the World Bank Social
Protection Unit’s Results Readiness Review of the FY2005-2009 portfolio of SP operations.
EFSRP was part of the sample of twelve emergency recovery loans. The portfolio review
noted EFSRP’s focus on achievable objectives and its tailoring to the emergency context of
the operation. The overall quality at entry in terms of results readiness was rated as
satisfactory and scored above global portfolio averages.
Assessment of risks. The overall risk level of the project was rated moderate. Country-level,
systemic risks were rated moderate in terms of weak institutional capacity, cumbersome and
ineffective financial controls and macroeconomic vulnerability. These weaknesses were to be
addressed through the Government’s demonstrated commitment to fighting corruption as well
as periodic country-level reviews and IDA support to national governance reforms. Project-
specific risks were rated as moderate to low. The main risks were: i) that the project would
not reach intended beneficiaries, which was addressed through a multi-stage targeting
mechanism, ii) weak financial management capacity of communities to manage grants,
addressed through FID’s extensive experience working directly with community groups in
poor areas, and iii) audits may not meet international standards, remedied by a dated covenant
requiring contracting of an international audit firm.
The Project was processed with the more flexible and accelerated procedures provided under
OP/BP 8.00. Emergency procedures were justified given the need to mitigate the effects of the
food and fuel crises and to rebuild local infrastructure destroyed by the recent cyclones.
2.2 Implementation
The project was approved December 16, 2008, with effectiveness declared on March 9, 2009.
However, a political crisis in early 2009 led to the immediate suspension of Bank activities in
Madagascar. The country’s elected president was forced out of office, with the opposition
                                              13
movement seizing power with eventual military support and forming an interim self-declared
transitional government. The unconstitutional change of power and resulting political impasse
negatively affected economic growth and development efforts and strained Madagascar’s
relations with international donors. As a result, disbursements for all Bank projects in
Madagascar were suspended on March 17, 2009, a week after project effectiveness, in line
with OP7.30 – Dealings with De Facto Governments.
Disbursements on component 1 (food security) and an initial tranche of Component 4 project
(management expenses) were authorized in November 2009 as part of the humanitarian
response permitted under OP7.30. The remaining components were authorized to begin
operations on May 6, 2010. The Project was closely and continually monitored given the
delayed start and the evolving political situation in Madagascar.
Despite the challenging country context, implementation progress was rated as satisfactory
throughout the life of the project. A formal mid-term review was not carried out, but the Task
Team provided close backstopping to FID throughout implementation. The political situation
created a constant need for FID to be responsive to the context. This context both increased
the need for the EFSRP’s safety net benefits because of the economic difficulties that resulted
from the political situation, as well as created a more challenging institutional environment in
which FID had to operate.
Key implementation challenges involved:
a) Given greater fiduciary risk in the political environment in Madagascar, the Bank froze
   any personnel changes in the FID and instituted the requirement of a Bank no objection
   for all new recruitments.
b) Adjustments to the targeting mechanism were needed due to the political instability and
   need for greater controls on the allocation of resources between localities. The PAD called
   for local authorities to identify the neediest communities. Instead, the Bank and FID
   agreed on a targeting formula based on per capita resource allocations to each commune
   and then identification of food insecure communities following food insecurity surveys in
   the most affected Grand Sud region and in other regions based on available data and in
   concert with the Red Cross and other agencies. This mechanism was refined as national
   data sources on vulnerability were developed.
c) The large number of people needing financial support following the devastating cyclones
   at the beginning of the project resulted in rotating access for households throughout the
   work period in order to spread the benefits. However, this risked dilution of food security
   benefits over time. By mid-2010, the FID disallowed rotation of workers so that each
   worker works for 30 days in order to increase the relevance of the program to the income
   of beneficiaries.
d) The daily wage level was raised during project implementation, from 1,600 Ariary
   (MGA)/day for a five-hour work day at project launch to 2,500 MGA (about $1.16) by the
   end of the project in response to inflationary pressures and the needs to ensure minimum
   food security. This remained below market wage levels for unskilled labor, which average
   about 4,000 MGA/day and 2,800 MGA/day for agricultural labor (plus one meal),
   retaining the self-targeting feature of the cash-for-work program.
e) The technical audit identified some capacity weakness in the local construction
   supervising firms as well as the NGOs carrying out cash-for-work. As these
   implementation agencies went through a formal bidding and contracting process, when
   serious performance issues arose, FID could cancel the contract and find replacements.
                                              14
Due to the staggered start of the various EFSRP components, the final allocation of resources
(Annex 1) shows that the cash-for-works component and the natural disaster response
component used more of the resources, with less allocated to community-driven infrastructure
(component 2). Project management cost remained below 15 percent, in line with results
targets. Given the delayed initiation of project activities, the closing date was rescheduled by
six months from December 31, 2012 to June 30, 2013.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The design of the Project’s monitoring and evaluation framework sought to capture key
outcomes and outputs and to permit assessment of the achievement of project objectives and
quality of operations. The key performance indicators selected for each component were
measurable and appropriate given capacity and the emergency context. For example, one of
the main outcome indicators – the percentage of initiated social and economic services
restored within 6 months following a natural disaster – sought to capture the emergency goals
of the project. All KPIs had baseline and target values and intermediate indicators were
reasonably focused on tracking outputs and activities.
The proposed M & E system built on the FID’s previous experience. During appraisal, FID
was deemed to have a functional management information system that could be used as the
monitoring basis. Given the emergency nature of the project, significant improvements in the
MIS were not envisioned at design. FID had monitoring and evaluation specialists at the
central level as well as in each of the regional offices. Several evaluations were planned,
including a technical audit, an impact assessment based on the baseline established during the
previous Community Development Project (with follow-up not concluded within CDP due to
the political difficulties in the country), and a beneficiary assessment.
During implementation, the MIS system was able to report on outputs and activities on a
timely basis. However, the MIS components were not fully integrated between the fiduciary
components and the sub-project management components. This caused a fragmentation and
lack of homogeneity of information. This weakness is being addressed through the installation
of new software under the follow-on project. Moreover, beneficiary registries for cash-for-
work programs were kept in lists of the NGO implementing agencies, In the follow-on
operation a registry of beneficiaries will be kept by FID which permits better control.
All key performance indicators were obtained by project closing and there was a sufficient
evaluative base to judge development outcomes. Some adjustments had to be made to the
final schedule of evaluations because of delayed start-up of several project components. A
baseline for an impact evaluation of FID IV had been carried out in 2006 through the National
Statistical Agency (INSTAT) with the follow-up planned for 2009, but could not be carried
out due to the political crisis and insecurity in the country. Instead, it was decided that the
follow-up would be done under the EFSRP to serve as the impact evaluation of the
community-driven infrastructure component since this component was a continuation of the
CDP project procedures and portfolio. An ex-post assessment was carried out on the other two
components, as well as a final beneficiary assessment to provide insights into the overall
performance of EFSRP. In addition, a technical audit, and an economic evaluation of the
community-driven infrastructure subprojects were completed (see Annex 5 for
methodological description of evaluations).
The FID integrated many of the recommendations of these evaluations into its operating
procedures. For example, the design of latrines and size of windows in schools were adjusted
based on the findings of the technical audit. The findings of the cash for work impact

                                              15
evaluation prompted FID to differentiate the targeting criteria between rural and urban areas
where before the evaluation the criteria were standard.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards. The project triggered safeguard policy Environmental Assessment OP/BP 4.01.
The environmental classification for the project is Category B. The FID’s Environmental
Manual was revised during preparation to incorporate recommendations from an ex-post
environmental impact assessment of sub-projects carried out in September 2007 for FID IV.
At appraisal it was deemed FID had sufficient resources and capacities to manage the
safeguard aspects of the project, including environmental specialists located in the General
Directorate and in each Inter-Regional Directorate of FID.
Environmental safeguards were rated as satisfactory throughout implementation. The
technical audit found several positive environmental impacts of FID sub-projects. For
example, the cleaning and improvements to canals has reduced flood risks and improved
sanitary conditions and reforestation of mangroves helped reduce erosion and restore
ecological balance. In addition, FID altered its school reconstruction designs specifically to
reduce the use of local wood to help address deforestation pressures. No significant negative
environmental impacts were found.
Fiduciary compliance. In terms of procurement, the overall procurement risk at appraisal was
rated as low. A Procurement Capacity Assessment Report showed that FID had sufficient
procurement staff with previous experience with the Bank and Governments prevailing
procurement rules and methods. Procurement was rated as satisfactory throughout EFSRP
implementation. Ex-post procurement reviews, including visits to FID regional offices
identified some minor shortcomings, mainly in consistent documentation.
Financial management was also found to be satisfactory throughout project implementation.
Financial supervision reports and audits were remitted in a timely fashion and found to be
acceptable. An evaluation of the financial management system was carried out in March 2010.
FID responded quickly to any financial management issues as they were identified.
It is worth noting that FID adopted a strong anti-corruption stance in the face of the weak
governance context of the country during implementation. FID engaged BIANCO, an anti-
corruption agency, to train FID intermediaries in anti-corruption practices and to bring
awareness to the legal consequences of not fulfilling contractual requirements. Any
contractual issues, for example problems with payment systems by local associations
managing cash-for-work activities, resulted in immediate cancellation of contracts and pursuit
of legal actions through proper national channels.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Post-completion sub-project operations and maintenance arrangements. In terms of the
infrastructure created or rehabilitated under EFSRP, the project undertook several activities to
address the systemic weaknesses in maintenance in the country:
a) The labor intensive sub-projects maintained existing drainage canals and rural irrigation
   canals as well as rehabilitated rural feeder roads which helped address maintenance
   backlogs. Future maintenance reverts to the responsible agency as these cash-for-work
   subprojects are short-term interventions aimed primarily at transferring income.
b) FID developed a manual for the management and maintenance of infrastructure under the
   CDD component, disseminated through community maintenance committees. In addition,

                                              16
   three youths in each community were designated and trained in routine maintenance
   practices. For the community-driven basic infrastructure sub-projects, communities
   contributed at least 5 percent of sub-project costs, of which a ‘maintenance fund’ was
   established with 0.5 percent to serve as a start-up fund to support initial maintenance.
   These funds are required to be in place before sub-project activities can begin. As an
   example of best practice, these maintenance funds are included in the annual EFSRP
   financial audit, along with the valuations of community counterpart contributions in
   general. While this maintenance fund will provide an initial source of financing, longer-
   term operations and maintenance will depend on the performance of the sectoral agencies,
   users associations and local governments who are the owners of the infrastructure. The
   impact evaluation noted the challenges particularly in the water sector of users groups
   directly operating systems, but interview found that vast majority of beneficiaries
   confirmed better access to water so benefits were still being delivered years after.
c) The sustainability of the social infrastructure created was furthered through FID’s
   adoption of anti-cyclonic building norms and designs, mitigating the potential negative
   impacts of future natural disasters and better protecting the infrastructure built. Education
   and health personnel were already in place in the facilities damaged and destroyed.
FID’s focus on community management helped promote better maintenance. The technical
audit found maintenance to be stronger where community management committees were
formed and trained. Systemic risks of the Government not being able to fund additional staff
in social facilities was partially addressed because FID did not finance any new schools or
health centers, only reconstruction of existing facilities damaged by cyclones. Within the
component 2 for community-driven infrastructure, the majority was road rehabilitation which
helped in part to address the backlog of maintenance needs and extend the operational life of
existing roads. The cash-for-work activities were all labor-intensive repair, rehabilitation or
maintenance activities which did not generate incremental operating and maintenance costs.
Sustaining institutional capacity and follow-on operations. The FID has continued to play a
critical social protection role in Madagascar through safety net cash-for work investments,
provision of infrastructure for basic services in poor communities and response to natural
disasters. In November 2012, the World Bank approved the Emergency Infrastructure
Preservation and Vulnerability Reduction Project of US$102 million to preserve key
infrastructure and reduce household vulnerability by selectively continuing those activities
started under World Bank projects in social protection, agriculture and transport. The new
project funds on-going efforts of FID in the cash-for-work program and the response to
natural disasters. The community-driven basic infrastructure would be taken up through the
Local Development Fund program which supports decentralization efforts. In addition, a new
Emergency Food Security and Social Protection Project is currently under preparation which
would continue FID’s social protection role and activities. Finally, the African Development
Bank has shown interest to provide funds to FID to finance small-scale infrastructure,
particularly in disaster prone areas.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance of objectives. The project objectives were highly relevant to the economic shocks
and natural disasters affecting the country at the time of project identification. The project was
consistent with the broader poverty reduction goals of the country as well as the World
Bank’s country strategy for Madagascar and the Bank’s evolving role in funding safety nets in

                                               17
Africa. The PDO became even more relevant to the country’s development needs in the
context of the prolonged political crisis starting in early 2009. Between 2009 and 2013, the
FID was one of the few well-functioning institutions and demonstrated the capacity to
mitigate the impacts of the political crisis by providing short-term employment and access to
basic social and economic services.
Relevance of design. The design built on the experience of previous funding of the FID’s
community development and emergency response programs. The FID’s ability to operate
autonomously and in direct contact with local communities and local governments was
particularly well-suited to delivering benefits to vulnerable groups during times of political
and economic crisis. The cash-for-work safety net component helped test a core component of
an eventual national safety net program and was well-tailored to the needs of food insecure
households as well as areas hit with natural disasters.
Relevance of implementation. During implementation, the community-driven approach of
FID whereby priorities were identified by the communities themselves meant that the
infrastructure investments were highly relevant to community needs. Per the 2013 beneficiary
assessment, 96 percent of respondents felt the sub-project implemented was necessary or very
necessary for the community. In addition, the cash-for-work safety net operations were well-
timed to the seasonality of agricultural labor. 80 percent of beneficiaries surveyed affirmed
the pertinence of the time frame of support. This was particularly strong in food insecure
regions, where 95 percent of beneficiaries were satisfied with the timing of interventions.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The aim of the Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction Project was to enable poor
households and communities in Madagascar deal with shocks though temporary employment
and improved access to social services, including the reconstruction of basic services
damaged from natural disasters. The EFSRP financed a total of 2,611 sub-projects, with 2,123
cash-for-work safety net sub-projects, 157 community-driven infrastructure sub-projects and
331 sub-projects in response to natural disasters. Output details are provided in Annex 2.
Technical audits found that overall the quality of the civil works was good, particularly for the
structures and roofs. The basic results chain assumptions were that these sub-project outputs
would provide temporary employment and income to improve food security and create or
restore access to basic economic and social services.
Provision of temporary employment through safety net cash-for-work
The project sought to increase access to short-term employment in targeted food-insecure
areas through a cash-for-work safety net. The EFSRP generated 8.9 million person-days of
work, compared with an original target of 7.8 million. An estimated 400,580 people benefitted
from cash-for-work, surpassing the initial target of 160,000 in large part due to the practice of
rotating workers in the first year of natural disaster response sub-projects as well as a
reallocation of funds toward this component.
Sixty-one percent of these beneficiaries of the cash-for-work sub-projects were women,
exceeding the original target of over 50 percent. Ex-post targeting analysis found that 92
percent of beneficiaries were poor compared with a general poverty rate of 76 percent in the
communities evaluated. In addition to the safety net features of the temporary employment
created, the EFSRP rehabilitated 6,226 kilometers of feeder roads, 660 sub-project to
rehabilitate small scale irrigation plots, over 200 drainage canal cleaning sub-projects and,
through an agreement with the Ministry of Environment and Forestry, the reforestation of 384
hectares of community forest and the restoration of over 1,000 hectares of mangroves

                                               18
Beneficiaries expressed overall satisfaction with the project’s safety net activities. Sixty-nine
percent of beneficiaries were satisfied or very satisfied with the quality of implementation,
with higher satisfaction rates among women and in the food insecure regions.
These outputs increased food security and well-being of participant households. The
beneficiary assessment reported that households used three-quarters of the cash payments to
purchase food, helping to stabilize food security. An impact evaluation found that beneficiary
households exhibited a significantly higher level of household expenditures than comparison
households. Over three-quarters of respondents said that this additional revenue went towards
their daily needs. A net gain of about one-half a day of rice consumption per week was
observed among beneficiary groups versus the control group. This result may have been
slightly diluted due to the rotation of workers in the early years of implementation, although
this was a justifiable policy in the face of the multiple shocks and growing numbers of
vulnerable. Moreover, it should be noted that the goal of cash-for-work is to improve
immediate food security not raise those households out of poverty through the temporary
transfers alone. An additional 6 percent of beneficiaries stated that additional revenue went to
health and education expenditures. In terms of health outcomes, the presence of a sickness
over the course of the last two weeks was reduced by a net three percentage points for
beneficiary over control groups.
Improved access to basic services through community-driven basic infrastructure
In terms of community-based infrastructure sub-projects (component 2), the project exceeded
its targets by supporting 157 sub-projects benefitting over 800,000 residents of poor
communities, versus an end-of project target of 76,000 beneficiaries. The indicator is above
target because over half the portfolio was road projects which served a higher average number
of beneficiaries than other sub-project types (and the methodology for calculating
beneficiaries of road projects was expanded to include all communities linked by the road and
not just the originating community). In addition to 825 kilometers of feeder roads
rehabilitated, the project funded 43 water supply systems, and 2,190 hectares of irrigated land.
The beneficiary assessment reported that 81 percent of beneficiaries were satisfied or very
satisfied with the sub-project, 98 percent affirmed that the project was a community priority,
and 94 percent were satisfied with the participatory diagnostic of community needs. Over half
of household felt that these sub-projects had increased revenues and productivity and 91
percent felt their living conditions had improved.
The impact evaluation of community-based projects from FID IV found significant positive
impacts. In the road sector, FID investments resulted in a 28 percent reduction in travel speeds
versus control groups. Investments in market infrastructure improved occupancy rates slightly,
with a net 2.5 percentage point increase to an average of 75.6 percent occupancy. In terms of
the water sub-projects, the impact evaluation found that the time women and girls spent
fetching water was reduced and people overall saw increased access, though functionality of
some systems was an issue. There were no outcome indicators included on irrigation sub-
projects. A composite indicator of economic wellbeing of FID community infrastructure
investments showed improvements for FID households versus comparators.
Reconstruction of basic services damaged from natural disasters
The Project sought to lessen the impact of natural disasters on vulnerable groups by ensuring
a timely response to rehabilitation and reconstruction of affected infrastructure (component 3).
The EFSRP reconstructed 292 schools (including 917 classrooms), 11 health centers, 3 water
supply systems, 6 administrative structures, and rehabilitated 95 kilometers of roads. Overall,

                                               19
FID covered 18 percent of the schools destroyed by cyclones over the last four cyclone
seasons, with higher coverage – up to 34 percent – in the earlier years (Annex 2). Given the
decline in donor and Government resources, FID provided the largest share of cyclone
response in the country.
One of the goals was to speed up response time following a natural disaster, seeking to
complete 75 percent of reconstruction sub-projects within 6 months of being prioritized by
local authorities. FID execution in this regard improved over the life of the project. Only 22
percent were completed within 6 months following cyclone Bingiza in early 2011. In response,
FID adopted a series of measures, including revisions to procurement procedures, to speed up
reconstruction. By the final cyclone season (2012-2013), FID achieved 100 percent
completion within 6 months (Annex 2), although this is explained in part by the relatively
small number of facilities (16) for FID to reconstruct in the final season.
The beneficiary assessment found that all of the schools reconstructed had a full complement
of infrastructure and school furniture. Sixty-three percent of beneficiaries of health centers felt
the furniture and equipment was very good or good and 99 percent were satisfied with the
infrastructure. Respondents indicated that access to and utilization of schools and health
centers had improved.
3.3 Efficiency
Cash-for-work sub-projects were able to ensure that a high percentage of sub-project
expenditures resulted in income transfers to beneficiary households, the main goal of this kind
of sub-project. Over 75 percent of the safety net sub-project costs were transfers in wages to
the workers, a high level of labor intensity by international safety net comparisons. And,
transfers went almost exclusively to food insecure households, pointing to substantial cost
effectiveness in these transfers.

Cost effectiveness and cost-efficiency of community-based infrastructure was substantial. For
economic infrastructure where a cost-benefit analysis could be undertaken (e.g. for roads and
irrigation), ex-post economic rates of return ranged from 27 to 87 percent. For social
infrastructure, like schools, where full cost-benefit analysis is not applicable, unit cost
analysis (cost efficiency) comparisons between FID and other school construction programs
showed that FID averages between 7 and 26 percent unit cost savings compared to other
programs.
As an implementing agency, FID’s operating costs were 15 percent, achieving project
operational efficiency targets.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The ESRP remained relevant to the country’s development priorities and responsive to the
economic and political crises facing the country. The community-driven approach of local
identification of needs ensured that the sub-projects reflected community priorities. All key
performance indicators were achieved, although KPIs were largely output oriented (number of
beneficiaries, number of sub-projects, etc.). The project met its overall development
objectives in terms of creating temporary employment, improving access to basic services and
restoring infrastructure following cyclones, supported by the KPIs as well as impact
evaluation data in most of the sub-project areas. These achievements are noteworthy given the

                                                20
difficult economic and political context facing the country during implementation. Efficiency
was high in terms of economic cost effectiveness and unit cost efficiency of investments.
There was some dilution of benefits due to rotating beneficiaries in the cash for work program
in the early years. Technical audits identified some weaknesses in capacity of local
implementing agencies, although overall sub-project quality was good. Any shortcomings
were minor, so the overall outcome rating is satisfactory. It should be noted, however, that the
rating of the overall outcome is borderline with Highly Satisfactory given the achievements
and the smooth implementation of the project despite difficult circumstances.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty. The project design included a targeting strategy which varied by component to
ensure the poorest communities and households benefitted. For the cash-for-work safety net
(component 1), the targeting mechanism entailed a combination of geographical targeting to
identify the most vulnerable localities along with community-based targeting to identify
eligible households using criteria developed in collaboration with INSTAT as well as the
daily rate for cash for work activities was chosen in such a way that it did not attract better-off
citizens. Community infrastructure carried out in component 2 was targeted to poor
communities. National poverty maps were used to identify the poorest communes, with local
agencies identifying the most vulnerable communities. The rehabilitation and reconstruction
of cyclone damaged infrastructure (component 3) was targeted based on a list of eligible sub-
projects identified by the BNGRC.

In terms of targeting results, 85 percent of beneficiaries felt that the local targeting system
was good or very good. Ex-post studies of the safety net component found that 65 percent of
beneficiaries came from a situation of severe food insecurity and 33 percent from moderate
food insecurity. Ninety-two percent of beneficiaries were poor versus 76 percent in the
general population in the zones of the cash-for-work impact evaluation.

Gender. The safety net component guidelines call for 50 percent of beneficiaries being
women. The EFSRP surpassed this target, with women accounting for 61 percent of
beneficiaries. Women’s participation was facilitated by the use of below market wages, which
reduced competition from men for scarce temporary construction employment opportunities,
as well as the provision of day care at the work sites, where day care providers were paid the
same daily wage rate to perform this function.

Social development impacts rely on the participatory and social accountability mechanisms in
place. The FID assures inclusiveness and participation through several of its operating
procedures:
a) Sub-projects are prioritized through participatory needs identification processes that seek
   inclusiveness of input from the greater community,
b) Local targeting committees select eligible participants for the safety net component
   through local consultations that are held in a transparent manner.
c) Project management committees are formed based on local community-based
   organizations and associations that present themselves through bidding processes to
   manage local sub-projects. These committees are comprised of a president, a secretary, a


                                                21
   technical officer, a treasurer and a person responsible for maintenance all elected through
   a general assembly of association members.
d) Social control is exercised through transparency at the local level, with community
   meetings, public announcements of project costs and safety net beneficiary lists, formal
   grievance procedures and a complaint hotline number.
In terms of reaching the most vulnerable, NGOs facilitated the beneficiary selection process
and reached out to include the poorest. In addition,. The identification process sought out
households with vulnerable members, and even though such members themselves, like the
disabled, elderly and chronically sick, did not participate in the cash-for-work they benefitted
through the positive impacts on the household. The new project with FID will introduce direct
cash transfers for this type of beneficiaries without the need to work.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The EFSRP helped FID progressively transform itself into a key social protection agency
whose focus was crucial in the response to the political, economic and natural shocks
affecting the Malagasy population. FID was one the few agencies able to mount a safety net
response. FID operated transparently and effectively in a very difficult political environment.
In part this was due to its semi-autonomous status, but also aided by a transparent and
objective targeting system and non-partisan leadership in the FID itself. In addition, FID has
become the lead agency in rebuilding community-level infrastructure following Madagascar’s
frequent cyclones. To do this effectively, during the EFSRP FID adjusted procedures to help
improve the timeliness of response and made formal changes to building design to ensure
cyclone-proofing to mitigate impacts of future natural disasters.
Institutional development extended to the creation of key partnerships and synergies with
other agencies and programs, which heightened impact and helped deepen institutional
capacity, including:
a) Participation in Government-donor sector ‘clusters’ in social protection, food security and
   education helped integrate FID activities into the broader efforts underway in Madagascar.
   This had the practical benefits of joint programming of activities to avoid overlap and
   create synergies as well as cross-program sharing of information and policy coherence.
b) A partnership with BIANCO on the fight against corruption, sending clear signals of non-
   tolerance and providing training and awareness of legal implications to FID’s local
   association implementing partners.
c) FID was a key partner in disaster mitigation and response. The Cellule de Prevention et de
   Gestion des Urgences (CPGU) under the Prime Minister’s Office chose FID as the main
   partner to disseminate cyclone building standards decreed by Government on April 23,
   2010. BNGRC and FID worked together on the identification of zones affected by natural
   disasters and on coordinating disaster response.
d) FID and INSTAT worked on geographical poverty mapping, utilizing data generated by
   INSTAT to help prioritize areas of intervention. In addition, INSTAT carried out the
   quasi-experimental impact evaluation of CDP used to evaluate component 2 of EFSRP,
   helping build capacity in-country for this more demanding level of analytical work.
e) FID signed an agreement with the Ministry of Public Health to facilitate improved service
   delivery in basic health at the sub-project work sites, encompassing awareness training on
   HIV-AIDS and family planning, child immunization and nutrition support, reaching
   almost 30,000 people.

                                              22
f) FID and the Ministry of Environment and Forests joined forces for community
   reforestation efforts funded through cash-for-work, reaching 20,527 beneficiaries with 384
   hectares of community forests planted and 1,003 hectares of mangrove forests restored.
g) Synergies with other World Bank projects were created to maximize impacts across
   projects. For example, the Integrated Growth Poles Project rehabilitates a main highway
   while the Rural Development Support Project supports agricultural cooperatives and FID
   improves feeder roads in the same area, all helping to improve the economic capacity of
   the zone which would be less effective if done without the other inputs.
h) Similar institutional synergies were found with other donors. For instance, FID
   rehabilitated schools that restored the ability to deliver lunch programs funded by World
   Food Program in the Grand Sud region. In the capital, FID financed rehabilitation of basic
   sanitation in the poorest neighborhoods while UNICEF financed complimentary works
   and connections. In addition, FID and UNICEF cooperated to carry out a study of the
   socioeconomic impacts of the 2009 crises.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There were no unintended outcomes.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

At the institutional level, FID has been instrumental in developing the basis for a social
protection response in Madagascar, which can be scaled up when additional internal and
external resources become available. The FID will continue its program in the future through
the Emergency Infrastructure Preservation and Vulnerability Reduction Project as well as an
emergency food security project currently under preparation. At the level of the sub-projects,
FID reduced sustainability risks by up-front creation of local maintenance funds, community
training in maintenance, and focusing on reconstruction of existing infrastructure. However,
the overall fiscal climate of the country and the ability of the sectoral ministries to adequately
maintain services given shrinking budgets create a systemic risk beyond the control of FID.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The World Bank responded quickly to the needs of the international economic crisis and the
devastating impacts of natural disasters. World Bank preparation activities built on its
international expertise in social protection as well as its strong country experience in this area
and long operational relationship with the FID. Technical, financial, social, environmental and
economic appraisal was satisfactory. Risks were adequately assessed and mitigation measures


                                               23
identified. The results readiness of the monitoring and evaluation framework was rated above
the average in a portfolio review of all Bank social protection operations in the FY2005-2009.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Formal supervision missions were carried out annually and Implementation Status Reports
filed twice per year. In addition to these formal instances of supervision, a great deal of daily
contact was maintained between the Bank team and FID with close monitoring of project
implementation throughout. Bank supervision had a very strong client-oriented focus with
positive feedback during the ICR mission on the engagement, timely response, and proactivity
in addressing implementation issues as they arose. Of note, the Bank provided important
technical assistance in developing and adjusting EFSRP’s targeting mechanisms. Periodic ex-
post procurement and financial management reviews helped inform supervision of fiduciary
aspects.

There were moderate shortcomings in supervision. Aide memoires lacked sufficient detail on
the full range of supervision activities and issues, for example findings and field reports from
safeguard reviews and infrastructure reviews carried out by team members, or discussions of
the findings of technical audits and evaluations including recommended follow-up actions.
This would have provided a fuller view of the scope of supervision activities, many of which
no doubt were carried out in ongoing discussions with the FID. Additionally, a formal mid-
term review was not carried out as the Task Team felt there were no substantive issues that
needed to be addressed. Instead a regular supervision mission was carried out.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The Bank performance is rated as satisfactory on ensuring quality at entrance and moderately
satisfactory in quality of supervision, leading to an overall rating of moderately satisfactory
per IEG ratings guidelines.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The project launched at a moment of political crisis resulting in a change of Government and
Madagascar being brought under OP 7.30 Dealing with De Facto Governments. This affected
the overall implementation environment in Madagascar, with a suspension in disbursements
across the portfolio. The Government submitted a request to the Bank to unfreeze
disbursements on the safety net component due to its humanitarian importance it addressing
immediate impact of the food and fuel crisis as well as the need to respond to natural disasters.

In spite of the challenges of working under OP 7.30, the Government was consistently
supportive of the project. The new Government respected the operational autonomy and
mission of the FID overall. There were many examples of positive working relationships with

                                               24
other governmental agencies (see section 3.5b above). There were no counterpart funds
required, as local match came from communities themselves through their sub-project
contributions. Therefore, although the Government created a challenging operational
environment, this did not have a significant adverse effect on the actual implementation of the
project in achieving its development outcomes, and there are many examples of the
Government agencies working in collaboration with the FID towards project outcomes.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The FID is a well-performing government agency in an exceptionally weak capacity
environment. FID implemented the EFSRP effectively which was a particularly significant
achievement given the political and economic difficulties facing Madagascar throughout the
project implementation period. FID was one of the few institutions in Madagascar that had the
capacity to respond to shocks, and in particular the urgent needs for rehabilitating basic
infrastructure following destructive cyclones. Moreover, FID was able to cultivate
constructive working relationships with many other agencies that improved the overall
implementation and impact of the program. FID has been extremely creative and open in
building these relationships across agencies.

From a project management perspective, FID carried out the implementation in a diligent and
foresighted fashion. Financial management and procurement functions were always rated as
satisfactory. Ex-post reviews found, overall, that documentation on contracting and financial
transactions was adequately done and standard financial reports to the Bank were delivered on
time and of satisfactory quality.

FID displayed the ability to adapt and improve its procedures to feedback it received. An
institutional assessment was carried out with recommendations effectively implemented,
including an additional internal control position, incorporation of measurable performance
indicators for each job and restructuring the salary scale, and development of a personnel
training plan. Recommendations from the technical audit resulted in changes to latrine design
and recommendations from the cash-for-work program were incorporated into changes in the
targeting and other operational procedures.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

As the ratings for Government performance is satisfactory and the implementing agency
performance is highly satisfactory, the overall rating is deemed satisfactory per IEG ratings
guidance.

6. Lessons Learned

On the social protection response in Madagascar

The loss of individual and public assets in the face of the shocks can create a significant risk
of a long-term drag on poverty reduction. The EFSRP illustrates the importance of quick
response to stabilize consumption, rebuild infrastructure and restore access to services. For

                                              25
example the EFSRP cash-for-work sub-projects mitigated the social impact of the crisis on
vulnerable groups, particularly on women. Cyclone reconstruction done by FID helped
rebuild schools and health centers. This ability to respond to shocks was all the more
important given the political crisis in Madagascar during project implementation. The
political crisis caused the withdrawal of donor resources, which combined with the economic
crisis, resulted in significant fiscal declines. Allowing safety net and natural disaster response
within the context of countries operating under OP7.30 can help cushion the longer-term
negative impacts on the most vulnerable populations.

While the FID’s response was targeted to the most vulnerable, the scale of operations was ‘a
drop in the bucket’ given the vast amount of unmet needs in Madagascar. During the ICR
mission, Government and partner agencies consistently identified both the strong capability of
FID but also the lack of financial resources in the country to adequately respond to shocks.
The Bank may wish to consider reallocating additional resources toward emergency
operations allowed to function under OP7.30 to help stabilize support to vulnerable
populations to avoid the negative long-term implications on poverty reduction.

The experience of the EFSRP shows the need for an integrated safety net capable of meeting
multiple needs including chronic caseloads of food insecure households combined with
immediate needs of communities affected by natural disasters. In the case of a reactivation of
the Bank’s full program in Madagascar, there will be a need to move from a project approach
to a scaled-up national safety net system capable of providing longer-term support to
vulnerable households. This support will need to be more sustained and predicable, rather
than the one-off interventions in responding to emergency that was the focus of the EFSRP. A
self-standing Social Protection operation should therefore be considered under IDA 17.

Being a poor country prone to shocks, the Bank will no doubt remain engaged in social
protection in Madagascar for the foreseeable future. It is important to draw the lessons learned
from the EFSRP in designing the Bank’s future strategy. Given the fragility of the political
and economic situation in Madagascar, the need for simple and effective short-term social
protection measures will need to be balanced with the need to build a more integrated and
systematic national social protection system over the longer term.

Given the recent successful national elections in Madagascar, there is renewed hope that the
country (and IDA) is now able to move from an emergency mode to a more systemic
approach to development, including in Social Protection. Due to these promising
developments and based on the experience of the EFSRP, the FID is presently revising its
operational strategy to move towards a basic social safety nets approach. This includes several
adjustments to the cash for work modalities. First, the daily rate for cash for work would be
increased to Ariary 3.000 (from 2.500) to account for inflation and ensure that it remains
above US$1 per day. Second, for selected households that are labor-constrained (e.g. disabled,
elderly, female headed households, etc.) a direct cash transfer would be provided, without the
work requirements, but ensuring their equal participation in beneficiary activities. Third, the
FID intends to provide the same households with cash for work/direct cash transfers over a
period of three years to help stabilize the families and to effectively foster links with other
development programs (nutrition, agriculture etc.). And fourth, the number of cash-for-work
days per household would be increased from an average of 30 days per year to 45 days per
year.



                                               26
On the implementation of lessons of EFSRP

The ESFRP was carried out in a very difficult political environment. FID’s autonomy helped
protect it from political interference. This was furthered by strict controls on any changes in
personnel and the use of objective targeting criteria. In spite of FID’s operational autonomy,
policy linkages with its main Government collaborating agencies were assured through FID’s
Board of Directors.

FID’s integration into sectoral cluster groups was important for the programming of activities
between agencies in an efficient and transparent manner. These clusters were typically chaired
by local UN agency representatives (in the case of Social Protection by UNICEF) and were
seen by many of those interviewed during the ICR mission as central to allocating resources
and finding synergies between agencies and projects working on similar themes.

Finding synergies between ongoing efforts strengthened the program and heightened impact.
For example, FID’s agreement with the Ministry of Health used the opportunity of highly
vulnerable workers assembled on cash-for-work project sites to provide health services and
awareness campaigns directly to them. Under the new Emergency Food Security and Social
Protection Project (P147514) as well as the new Additional Financing for Nutrition (P148749)
to the Emergency Support to Critical Education Health and Nutrition Services Project, similar
arrangements are being developed with regard to nutrition.

The EFSRP also helped implement anti-cyclone building norms in the country, particularly
for social infrastructure. Given the high rate of destruction, rebuilding with mitigation in mind
will have high returns for the country in terms of safety and sustainability of this
infrastructure.

Cash-for-work had a measurable and immediate effect on stabilizing and improving food
consumption. A combination of geographical and community-based targeting backed by the
development of guideline proxy-means indicators was able to target benefits to food insecure
households. To further develop this targeting approach, the FID is now working with the
Bank on developing a proxy means test that would be used to validate potential beneficiaries
based on their family composition, assets, etc. thus adding an objective way of measuring
households’ poverty status. This information will also benefit the construction of a beneficiary
database, presently developed by FID.




                                               27
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                                                                  Percentage of
            Components                 Estimate (USD        Estimate (USD
                                                                                   Appraisal
                                          millions)            millions)
Social safety net (cash for work)               12.30             14.24              116%
Community-driven basic infrastructure            8.40               6.10              73%
Reconstruction in response to natural
                                                12.80              14.03             109%
disasters
Project management, M & E,
                                                 6.90                  7.57          110%
communications
                   Total Baseline Cost          40.40              41.93
Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                 0.00
                  Total Project Costs           40.40              41.93             104%



(b) Financing
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                           Type of         Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing         (USD            (USD       Appraisal
                                                           millions)       millions)
 Borrower (Communities)                                 0.40            0.33          83%
 International Development Association
                                                        40.00           41.60       104%
(IDA)




                                               28
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Table 2a. Component 1: Cash-for-Work Safety Net
                        Number of Sub-Projects         %          Disbursements ($US millions       %
Environmental                   161                     8%                  1.42                    10%
Hydro-                          660                                         4.40
agricultural                                           31%                                          31%
Agricultural                      42                    2%                    0.11                   1%
Roads                           1,012                  48%                    6.68                  47%
Sanitation                       248                   12%                    1.56                  11%
Training                                                                      0.05                   0%
Total                           2,123                  100%                  14.24                 100%


Table 2b. Component 2: Community-Driven Infrastructure Sub-Projects
                        Number of Sub-Projects         %          Disbursements ($US millions       %
Sanitation                        3                     2%                  0.11                     2%
Roads                            83                    53%                  3.21                    56%
Water Supply                     43                    27%                  1.29                    22%
Irrigation                       28                    18%                  0.91                    16%
Training                                                                    0.25                     4%
Total                            157                   100%                 5.77                   100%


Table 2c. Component 3: Post-Disaster Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
                        Number of Sub-Projects         %          Disbursements ($US millions       %
Schools                         292                    88%                  12.43                   89%
Roads                            18                     5%                   0.81                    6%
Water supply                      3                     1%                   0.05                    0%
Irrigation                        1                     0%                   0.03                    0%
Health centers                   11                     3%                   0.49                    3%
Administrative
buildings                             6                  2%                   0.06                   0%
Training                                                                      0.17                   1%
Total                             331                  100%                  14.03                 100%


Table 2d. FID cyclone-damagedschool reconstruction
           Number of            Number of rehabilitated or
           damaged              reconstructed infrastructure by      % schools by
Year       infrastructure       FID*                                 FID             Cyclones
           Total      Schools   Total           Schools
2010       713        475       109             104                                  Fanele, Jokwe, Yvan,
                                                                              22%    Hubert, Fame, Jade
2011       385        327       122            112                            34%    Bingiza
2012       1059       894       114            98                             11%    Giovanna, Irina
2013       124        99        16             7                               7%    Haruna, ZCIT (flood)
Total      2281       1795      361            321                            18%
*Includes all FID resources




                                                  29
Table 2e. Share of Damaged Infrastructure Restored by FID within 6 months
Cyclone Season     Percent of damaged infrastructure under FID              Name of Cyclones
                   responsibility restored within 6 months
2010/2011                                  22%                              Bingiza
2011/2012                                  95%                              Chanda, Giovanna,
                                                                            Irina
2011/2012                                  56%                              Chanda, Giovanna,
                                                                            Irina
2012/2013                                 100%                              Felleng, Haruna


Component 4:

This component funded FID operational costs, technical assistance and studies, and
equipment. Key outputs are provided in the tables below:


Table 2f: Distribution of Project Expenditures under Component 4 (in US$ millions)
Operational costsa                           6.358
Technical assistance                         0.694
           b
Equipment                                    0.514
Total                                        7.565
a
 These costs are comprised of personnel (US$4.3 million, sub-project supervision costs (US$0.6 million), fixed
costs ($US$0.6 million) and variable costs (US$0.8 million)
b
  These costs are comprised of computer equipment, vehicles and tires, office equipment




Table 2g: FID Personnel supported under the Project
                     Professional Staff    Support Staff                             Total
Central Office                22                    11                                           33
Antananarivo                  10                     8                                           18
Antisran                      10                     9                                           19
Fianarants                    10                     9                                           19
Mahajanga                     10                     9                                           19
Toamasin                      10                     9                                           19
Toliara                       10                     9                                           19
Total                         82                    64                                          146




                                                      30
Table 2h: Technical Assistance Financed under the Project
Topic                                              Consultant/Firm
Audit Comptable et Financier                       Cabinet Mazars/Fivoarana
Audit technique                                    Daniel Dupety
Evaluation d'Impact PDC                            INSTAT
Evaluation économique PDC                          Mamy RALAIVELO
Système d'information et site web                  TOMATE
Evaluation Efficacité de ciblage Cash for work     INSTAT
Evaluation par les bénéficiaires des activités
EFSRP                                              Mamy RALAIVELO
Etude MCRAM 2012                                   UNICEF
Participation à l'Evaluation dégâts post haruna
Indemnité de stage des jeunes diplômés             Jeunes diplômés de l'Université de Madagascar
                                                   et des différents Instituts - Jeunes diplômés de la
                                                   Polytechnique de Paris
Appui à la gestion de contrat des partenaires      Maître RANDRANTO
Indemnité de stage des jeunes diplômés             Jeunes diplômés de l'Université de Madagascar
                                                   et des différents Instituts - Jeunes diplômés de la
                                                   Polytechnique de Paris
Appui à la gestion de contrat des partenaires      Maître RANDRANTO


Table 2i : Institutional Training Financed under the Project
                             Topic                                      Number of Participants
Formation des cadres opérationnels du FID en « organisation et
gestion des activités HIMO » - module 1 : vulnérabilité sociale
et insécurité alimentaire dans le cadre de la mise en œuvre de la   06 Ingénieurs et 06 Socio-
composante sécurité alimentaire du FID                              Organisateurs
Formation des cadres opérationnels du FID en « organisation et
gestion des activités HIMO » - module 2 : organisation et
gestion d’un chantier HIMO et chantier école dans le cadre de la    06 Ingénieurs et 06 Socio-
mise en œuvre de la composante sécurité alimentaire du FID          Organisateurs du FID
                                                                    12 Socio-Organisateurs et 01
Formation des formateurs des AGEX en Agroforesterie                 Conseiller du FID
                                                                    02 Conseillers Ingénieurs, 06
                                                                    Chef de Srervice des Opérations,
Formation des Ingénieurs sur les normes architecturales             16 Ingénieurs du FID
Formation des AGEX: Présentation de la Composante Protection
Sociale – Sécurité Alimentaire                                      177 AGEX
Formation des AGEX: Rôles et fonctions du Superviseur, Chef
de chantier, Comite de ciblage; procédures                          179 AGEX




                                                  31
                        Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Efficiency of the safety net transfers:
Efficiency of safety net cash for work transfers are a function of the labor intensity achieved
and the ability of the transfer to reach poor people. The majority (55 percent) of cash-for-
work sub-projects were road rehabilitation, with 32 percent concerning the repair and cleaning
of sanitation canals in urban and peri-urban areas or of irrigation canals in rural areas.
Because of these types of public works, the labor intensity was high, ranging between 75 and
85 percent, which is very high by international standards (typically 50 to 75 percent for labor
intensive public works programs). The vast majority of transfers reached the target population.
Ex-post studies found that 65 percent of beneficiaries came from a situation of severe food
insecurity and 33 percent from moderate food insecurity; and, on average three-quarters of the
cash payment was used to purchase food, another sign of effective targeting.

Cost –effectiveness and cost-efficiency of the infrastructure investments:
An economic analysis by types of sub-projects (schools, water points, feeder roads) conducted
in 2011 (Ralaivelo, 2011) found the following:
Productive infrastructure where economic analysis included quantification of costs and
benefits and calculations of return on investment, the internal rate of return (IRR) on road and
bridge projects ranged from 27 to 87 percent. Significant increases in traffic were observed on
the roads rehabilitated, leading to an increase in transport of agricultural products to market.
For market infrastructure, economic returns were calculated at 58 percent even where
occupancy rates of market stalls were only 70 percent, providing opportunities for expansion
of economic benefits as markets grow (or as local governments exercise more of their
policing powers to prohibit informal sellers from taking up shop outside of the markets). The
economic rate of return on irrigation was 36 percent, based on the increases in production
allowed by counter-season growing. However, future returns depend on the user groups’
ability to adequately maintain the infrastructure.
Social infrastructure. Economic rates of return are not applicable to schools and health centers.
The sub-projects visited confirmed significant non-quantifiable benefits in terms of utilization
of services and health and education outcomes. In terms of unit cost analysis (cost efficiency),
comparison between FID and other school construction programs showed that FID averages
between 7 and 26 percent unit cost savings given similar delegated contract management than
comparator programs, with an additional savings when community-based contracting
procedures are used by FID (see table below).
Unit Cost Comparisons of School Construction
                                                         Evaluation of School     Source:
                                                         Construction, MEN 2010   Service providers
FID      Delegated contract management (post-            16,997                   17,000
         catastrophe)
         Delegated contract management (ordinary)
         Approach – communities                          12,090                   15,000
         Approach – local governments                    12,681
UNICEF   Delegated contract management (post-            18,402                   22,856
         catastrophe)
         Delegated contract management (ordinary)        16,448
OIT      Delgated contract management (post-             18,134
         catastrophe)
         Delegated contract management (ordinary)        16,123



                                                    32
It is worth noting that FID took the lead in applying anti-cyclone building norms in the
reconstruction of social infrastructure, for example changing form wooden to metal doors and
fixtures and redesign and strengthening of roofs. FID estimates that the cyclone protective
features raise unit costs by about 10 percent, representing a high rate of return in terms of
mitigation against future damage.

Efficiency of the FID as an implementing agency:

Following an Institutional Review in 2009 (Ferland, 2009), FID adjusted its corporate
structure to increase internal efficiency. By the end of the Project, FID’s management costs
were 15 percent, achieving the operational efficiency targets established at the beginning of
the project. The adjustments made following the institutional review helped keep operating
costs down even though the partial start-up of activities due to disbursement suspensions in
the country resulted in one additional year of implementation.




                                             33
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
          Names                               Title                   Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Philippe Auffret             Sr. Social Protection Specialist    AFTH3         TTL
Paul-Jean Feno               Environmental Specialist            AFTN1         Safeguards
Gervais Rakotoarimanana      Sr. Financial Management Specialist AFTFM         Financial
                                                                               Management
Sylvain Rambeloson           Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPC       Procurement
Renganaden Soopramanien      Sr. Counsel                           LEGAF       Legal
Suzanne Morris               Sr. Finance Officer                   LOAFC       Disbursements
Tristam Barrett              Consultant
Julia Honvitz                Consultant
Thembi M. Kumapley           Program Assistant                     AFTSW
Norosoa V. Andrianaivo       Language Program Assistant            AFTH3
Supervision/ICR
Philippe Auffret             Sr. Social Protection Specialist      AFTSE       TTL
Renee M. Desclaux            Sr. Finance Officer                   CTRLD       FM
Paul-Jean Feno               Sr. Environmental Specialist          AFTN1       Safeguards
Jean Charles Amon Kra        Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTME       FM
Nadege K. Nouviale           Program Assistant                     HDNSP
Francois Rakotoarimanana     Sr. Financial Management Specialist   AFTME       FM
Sylvain Auguste Rambeloson   Sr. Procurement Specialist            AFTPE       Procurement
Renganaden Soopramanien      Consultant                            LEGAF-HIS   Legal
Julie van Domelen            Consultant                            AFTSE
Andrea Vermehren             Lead Social Protection Specialist     AFTSE       TTL for ICR




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending                                         17.65                                170,322.50
                             Total:             17.65                               $170,322.50
Supervision/ICR
4
                                                 40.25                               392,820.20
                             Total:              40.25                              $392,820.20




                                               34
                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Summary methodological descriptions of the primary evaluations carried out under the
project:

Impact evaluations:
Community infrastructure impact evaluation. The EFSRP was a follow-on operation from the
Community Development Project (FID IV). The CDP was designed with a quasi-
experimental impact evaluation consisting of a random sample of intervention and control
communities allowing for difference-in-difference estimates of net project impact on key
outcome variables. The baseline was done in 2006 by the National Statistics Institute
(INSTAT) with follow-up planned for 2009. The planned second-phase impact evaluation
was canceled because of political tensions and security concerns. Instead, the follow-up was
carried out in 2011. Given the basic similarities in the pipeline and operating procedures
carried out by FID in the two projects, the CDP impact evaluation is valid for studying the
impacts of the EFSRP components 2 (and 3).

Both qualitative and quantitative instruments were used, including household surveys and
focus group interviews. The methodology used was comprised of a two-stage sample based
on communities and households in 20 intervention communes and 20 control communes.
Sampling was done on schools, health centers, roads and markets, with at least 18 households
surveyed per community.

Impact evaluation of targeting and revenues of cash-for-work program. The 2011 evaluation
measured the targeting accuracy by measuring poverty levels and household characteristics of
beneficiaries compared with non-beneficiaries in a sample intervention zone (Ankasina).
Household surveys were carried out on 415 households in the intervention zones with 146
beneficiary households. Before and after measurements allowed for a difference in difference
estimate of the impact on consumption and revenues.

Technical audit:
Carried out in November 2011, the technical audit was based on a sample of 72 sub-projects,
with a representative sample between the three components. The audit included review of FID
processes, documentation and field visits that assessed technical quality as well as other
aspects like environmental impacts and operations and building maintenance.

Economic evaluation
A sample of 9 sub-projects covered roads, markets, irrigation, health and schools. The sub-
projects involved 135 user groups and/or economic agents. The ex-post economic analysis
estimated net present value, internal rate of return and payback period calculations.

Beneficiary assessment
A 2013 beneficiary assessment covered project interventions in three regions plus
Antananarivo. The approach was a combination of quantitative through household surveys
and qualitative through focus group interviews based on a sample frame of 800 households
for household surveys



                                             35
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                  REPOBLIKAN’I MADAGASIKARA
                  Fitiavana – Tanindrazana – Fandrosoana
                                  ooOoo
                               PRIMATURE
                                    ----




         RAPPORT D’ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET D’URGENCE
        DE SECURITE ALIMENTAIRE ET DE RECONSTRUCTION

                 - RAPPORT DE L’EMPRUNTEUR -

   EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT – EFSRP
                       - Crédit 4537 MAG -

        - FONDS D’INTERVENTION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT –




                                   36
                                                                             novembre 2013

                             - TABLE DE MATIERES -


1. Préambule

2. Introduction

3. DESCRIPTION DES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET :

3.1 Composante 1 : Filet de Sécurité Sociale (argent contre travail)

3.2 Composante 2 : Projets Communautaires

3.3 Composante 3 : Réhabilitation et reconstruction en réponse aux catastrophes naturelles

3.4 Composante 4 : Administration du Projet – Suivi Evaluation et Audit

4. EVALUATION RETROSPECTIVE                     DE    LA     PREPARATION        ET    DE
   L’EXECUTION DU PROJET
   4.1. PREPARATION DU PROJET

   4.2 EXECUTION DU PROJET

5. ANALYSE   DES    PRINCIPAUX                   FACTEURS          AYANT      AFFECTE
   L’EXECUTION DES RESULTATS


6. DESCRIPTION DES REALISATIONS DU PROJET – modèle du PAD page 31.

7. EVALUATION DES RESULTATS ET IMPACTS DU PROJET PAR
   RAPPORT
   A L’OBJECTIF DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU PROJET (PDO)

8. ANALYSE DE LA PERENNITE DES ACQUIS ET RESULTATS DES
   PROJETS

9. ANALYSE DES             PERFORMANCE            DES      DIFFRERENTES        PARTIES
   PRENANTES


10. LES PRINCIPALES LECONS APPRISES DE L’EXPERIENCE DU PROJET


11. CONCLUSION




                                          37
                                 ABREVIATIONS


ACF      Action Contre la Faim
ACT      Argent-Contre-Travail
AEP      Adduction d'Eau Potable
AGEX     Agence d’Exécution
AGR      Activités Génératrices de Revenus
BE       Bureau d'Etudes
BIANCO   Bureau Indépendant Anti-Corruption
BIT      Bureau International de Travail
BNGRC    Bureau National de Gestion des Risques et Catastrophes
BTP      Bâtiments et Travaux Publics
CPGU     Cellule des Préventions et Gestion des Urgences
CRENA    Centre de Récupération Nutritionnelle Ambulatoire
CRENI    Centre de Récupération Nutritionnelle Infantile
CSB      Centre de Santé de Base
CUA      Commune Urbaine d’Antananarivo
DIR      Directions Inter Régionales
DTS      Droit des Tirages Spéciaux
EFSRP    Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction Project
FAO      Food and Agricultural Organisation
FDL      Fonds de Développement Local
FID      Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement
GIZ      Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit
GoM      Government of Madagascar
GRC      Gestion des Risques et Catastrophes
HIMO     Haute Intensité de Main d’Œuvre
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      Association Internationale de Développement
INSTAT   Institut National de la Statistique
MINSAN   Ministère de la Santé
MOD      Maîtrise d’Ouvrage Délégué
MPE      Moyennes et Petites Entreprises
OMS      Organisation Mondiale de la Santé
ONN      Office National de la Nutrition
PAD      Project Appraisal Document (Document d’Evaluation du Projet)
PAM      World Food Program/Programme Alimentaire Mondial
PDC      Projet de Développement Communautaire
PDO      Objectif de Développement du Projet
PIC      Pôle Intégré de Croissance
PIP      Programme d’Investissements Publics
PSDR     Projet de Soutien au Développement Rural
PUPIRV   Projet d’Urgence pour la Préservation des Infrastructures Vitales

                                         38
PUSAR    Projet d’Urgence de Sécurité Alimentaire et de Reconstruction
RF2      Structure d'entretien permanent des ouvrages réalisés
RIP      Route d’Intérêt Provincial
SAMS     Sécurité Alimentaire et Moyens de Subsistance
SNGF     Silo National des Graines Forestières
SSME     Semaine de la Santé Mère Enfant
TDR      Termes de Référence
UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
USD      Dollar américain




                                        39
     1. Préambule
         Le présent document constitue le Rapport d’Achèvement rédigé par l’Emprunteur du crédit n° 4537
     MAG conclu entre le Gouvernement de Madagascar (GoM) et l’Association Internationale de
     Développement (IDA) d’un montant de 26,9 million de DTS (USD$ 40,0 million équivalent) pour financer
     le Projet d’Urgence de Sécurité Alimentaire et de Reconstruction (Emergency Food Security and
     Reconstruction Project) pour le compte du Gouvernement de Madagascar (emprunteur).

          Ce Rapport d’achèvement comporte trois objectifs principaux dont :

                    (i)        L’évaluation de la pertinence du Projet par rapport au contexte qui prévalait au
                               moment de sa conception et de son exécution,
                    (ii)       L’appréciation dans quelle mesure le Projet a atteint les objectifs et les résultats
                               attendus et,
                    (iii)      La formulation des leçons apprises de l’expérience passée au travers des processus de
                               préparation et de mise en œuvre des activités du Projet.

     La préparation de ce Rapport d’Achèvement qui fait partie des obligations de l’Emprunteur (Gouvernement
     de Madagascar) a été effectuée par le Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement (FID), Agence
     d’Exécution du Projet.
     Le présent rapport viendra en annexe du Rapport Principal d’Achèvement de la Banque Mondiale
     (Implementation Completion Report – ICR).

     2. Introduction
         Madagascar est constamment confronté à divers challenges créées par les impacts combinés de (i) crises
     alimentaires, (ii) de chocs dus aux fluctuations des prix du pétrole (et de l’énergie) et (iii) des effets
     dévastateurs des passages de cyclones.

         S’il est démontré que le riz représente au moins le tiers du panier de consommation alimentaire des
     ménages les plus pauvres de Madagascar, le prix local de cette denrée n’a cessé de croître substantiellement
     durant le quatrième trimestre de l’année 2008 pareillement aux prix sur le marché international durant cette
     période.

         A l’instar de cette élévation du prix du riz, le marché du pétrole a également connu une élévation
     inquiétante en cette période et bien que si ce marché se soit stabilisé par la suite, les impacts à court terme
     auprès des consommateurs finals ne se sont pas fait ressentir tout de suite.

         Enfin, la saison cyclonique de 2008 a été particulièrement dévastatrice et dont les coûts des dommages
     enregistrés ont été estimés à US$ 174 million 1.

          Face à cette situation d’urgence, le Gouvernement de Madagascar a travaillé avec les partenaires de
     développement afin de préparer une réponse coordonnée. Si pour le Gouvernement, un budget
     supplémentaire (dans la loi de finances rectificative) a été inscrit vers le mois de juillet 2008 incluant des
     mesures fiscales pour amortir les difficultés ressenties par la population à cause des impacts combinés de la
     crise alimentaire, l’augmentation de prix des produits pétroliers ainsi que les impacts directs des dommages
     causés par les cyclones, les partenaires de développement de Madagascar ont annoncé simultanément un
     certain nombre de mesures d’accompagnement.

     A ce titre, la Banque Mondiale a développé une réponse tridimensionnelle.

              En premier lieu, une enveloppe d’USD$ 10 million a été octroyée pour amortir les impacts
               immédiats de la crise.
              En second lieu, un financement additionnel d’USD$ 30 million a été alloué au projet d’appui au
               développement rural existant (PSDR) afin d’augmenter la production agricole dans le moyen terme.


1
 Government of Madagascar, May 2008,, “ Damage, Loss, and Needs Assessment for Disaster Recovery and Reconstruction after the 2008
cyclone Season in Madagascar “



                                                               40
                    Enfin et en troisième lieu, le présent Projet constitue la composante « Filet de Sécurité » en tant
                     que réponse de la Banque Mondiale laquelle a pour objectif premier de fournir un support pour les
                     groupes sociaux vulnérables de la population qui sont particulièrement affectés par la crise.

              Dans son développement, le présent projet s’articule sur trois activités principales :

       (i)     Financer un programme d’Argent-Contre-Travail (ACT) ayant pour but d’augmenter l’accès à
               des emplois temporaires dans des zones identifiées en insécurité alimentaire,
       (ii)    Financer des sous-projets communautaires de base afin d’augmenter également l’accès aux
               services socio-économiques pour les communautés pauvres. La liste des sous projets éligibles pour
               cette composante est présentée en 2.2.2 (page 6)
       (iii)   Restaurer l’accès aux services socio-économiques de base (écoles, centres de santé, pistes de
               desserte, systèmes d’adduction d’eau potable…) en réponse aux évènements catastrophiques dont
               les cyclones,
       Les allocations respectives 2 pour ce nouveau Projet intitulé « Emergency Food Security and
       Reconstruction Project -EFSRP » prévu pour une durée de 3 ans se présente comme suit en USD$:

                          COMPOSANTE                                               IDA           Communautés                 Total
    01 Filet de Sécurité Sociale (argent-contre-travail)                             12.30                                       12.30
    02 Infrastructures Communautaires de Base                                         8.00             0.40 3                      8.40
    03 Reconstruction en réponse aux catastrophes naturelles                         12.80                                       12.80
    04 Gestion de Projet, Suivi Evaluation et Communication                           6.90                                         6.90
    Coût total                                                                                                                   40.40

              Les dates-clés relatives pour ce projet sont :

                                           Etapes                                                          Périodes / Dates
         1.       Préparation _ évaluation                                                                Juillet – Septembre 2008
         2.       Approbation du Conseil d’Administration de la Banque Mondiale                                  16 Décembre 2008
         3.       Signature des Documents juridiques 4                                                              19 Janvier 2009
         4.       Mise en vigueur prévue                                                                                 Mars 2009

           L’implémentation de ce Projet a été confiée au Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement (FID) 5 qui
       possède une expérience éprouvée dans ce type d’intervention d’urgence au niveau national, ayant géré
       depuis 1993 plusieurs fonds sociaux totalisant USD$ 178 million.

Objectifs de Développement du Projet
              (i)        Augmenter l’accès aux emplois temporaires dans des zones ciblées et identifiées en situation
                         d’insécurité alimentaire,
              (ii)       Restaurer l’accès aux services socio-économiques de base suite aux catastrophes naturelles
                         dans des communautés ciblées.

      L’atteinte de ces objectifs sous-tend un double challenge d’urgence à travers (i) la contribution active à la
      mise en place d’activités « argent-contre-travail » pour augmenter la consommation alimentaire dans les
      zones identifiées en insécurité alimentaire et (ii) l’atténuation des impacts des catastrophes naturelles pour les



2
    Cf. Project Appraisal Document (PAD) – Worldbank – Report No 45675 du 18 Novembre 2008 – page 13.

3
  La part des communautés s’exprime par des apports en matériaux de construction, d’apport en main d’œuvre au cours des travaux ou en
numéraire.

4
  Les Documents juridiques sont constitués de l’Accord de Financement, de l’Accord de Projet et de l’Accord subsidiaire rétrocédant la
gestion des fonds au FID.

5
  Le Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement (FID) est une Association de type privée, régie par l’ordonnance 60-133 définissant le
régime des associations et reconnue d’utilité publique par décret n° 9344 du 27/01/93. sous tutelle de la primature.



                                                                   41
    groupes vulnérables par la réhabilitation ou reconstruction des infrastructures sociales de base endommagées
    par les cyclones.

     3. DESCRIPTION DES COMPOSANTES DU PROJET :

3.1. Composante 1 : Filet de Sécurité Sociale (argent contre travail) – US$ 12.3 million.

                a.   Cette composante financera un programme d’argent contre travail pour augmenter l’accès à
                     des emplois temporaires dans les zones d’insécurité alimentaire. Cette composante fournira
                     également des séries de formation aux cadres dirigeants des Agences d’Exécution [AGEX] qui
                     sont responsables de la mise en œuvre des activités sur le terrain.

                b.   Le mécanisme de ciblage pour les zones et les ménages/bénéficiaires des activités Argent
                     Contre Travail s’effectue en trois étapes :

                            i. Etablissement par le Bureau National de Gestion des Risques et Catastrophes
                               (BNGRC) de la liste des zones affectées par des évènements catastrophiques,
                           ii. Identification des communautés les plus affectées par un processus de consultation
                               transparente avec les autorités régionales, des districts et des communes, en faisant
                               participer à chaque étape la personne responsable de la Gestion des Risques et
                               Catastrophes, et
                          iii. Ciblage des ménages les plus affectés au niveau dans chaque communauté avec un
                               processus de consultation élargie avec les notables locaux constitués en « Comité de
                               Ciblage » 6 (maîtres d’écoles, quartiers mobiles, membres de la société civile…). Le
                               processus de consultation doit assurer qu’au moins la moitié des bénéficiaires soit des
                               femmes. Le mécanisme limitera aussi le nombre de jours pour une personne ou un
                               représentant du ménage pour travailler afin d’en obtenir le plus de bénéfice au profit
                               de la communauté cible.

                c.   Sélection des activités éligibles :
                      Les activités mises en œuvre dans cette composante sont de très faible technicité, ne
                         nécessitant pas de matériels spécifiques et pouvant être réalisés en technique de Haute
                         Intensité de Main d’Œuvre (HIMO).
                      La nature des activités à exécuter sont a priori d’intérêts communautaires tels :
                              o les travaux de nettoyage de quartiers après des catastrophes naturelles (cyclones,
                                   inondation,…)
                              o Assainissement de quartiers,
                              o curage de canaux d’irrigation,
                              o réfection de pistes de desserte,
                              o reboisement communautaire et
                              o restauration de mangroves….
                      Le choix des activités à réaliser se fait par les bénéficiaires eux-mêmes avec l’approbation
                         des autorités locales (niveau Commune et Fokontany).

                d.   Coûts des microprojets Argent-Contre –Travail :

                    Selon le PAD, le programme Argent-Contre Travail ne pourra financer un microprojet dont le
                     coût est supérieur à US$ 20.000.
                    Par ailleurs, selon sa compétence et son expérience, une Agence d’Exécution7 (AGEX) ne peut
                     gérer pour le compte de plusieurs microprojets de manière simultanée des contrats dont la
                     somme des coûts excéderait USD$ 100.000.




6
  En sus de son rôle de cibler les personnes ou ménages éligibles pour les travaux ACT, les membres du comité de ciblage ont aussi pour
attributions de superviser globalement l’exécution du microprojet (avancement technique, performance de l’Agex, régularité des paiements,
réception de doléance, réception des travaux exécutés….). Ces attributions sont consignées dans des TDR spécifiques.



                                                                  42
                 e.    Répartition des coûts par microprojet :

            Selon le Document d’Evaluation du Projet (PAD), la répartition du financement d’un microprojet
            Argent-Contre –Travail se présente comme suit :

                                                                             POURCENTAGE ALLOUE AUX
                        CATEGORIE DE DEPENSES
                                                                             DEPENSES DU MICRO PROJET
               Salaire des travailleurs                                             Minimum 75%
               Matériels, outillages et Transport                                   Au plus 17%
               Rémunération de l’Agence d’Exécution 7                               Maximum 8%

                 f.    Design des chantiers Argent-Contre –Travail exécutés par le FID :

                      Un chantier ACT mis en œuvre par le FID emploie 150 personnes (dont au moins 50% sont
                       des femmes).
                      Les travailleurs sont issus des listes d’inscription tenues par les Comité de Ciblage (par
                       autociblage) auxquelles sont appliqués les critères de vulnérabilité/pauvreté prédéfinis par le
                       FID dans ses manuels de Procédures.
                      La durée du chantier varie entre 30 jours et 50 jours, selon la nature et l’intensité des travaux à
                       exécuter.
                      Un travailleur perçoit pour cinq heures de travail (hors week end) 2.500 Ar par jour de
                       rémunération.

            N.B. Le taux journalier admis au cours de l’évaluation du Projet a été de 1.600 Ariary pour cinq (05)
            heures de travail, inférieur aux 2012 Ariary qui est le montant de référence au taux minimal admis au
            niveau national 8 en 2008.

            Cette option a été dictée pour prémunir des distorsions au niveau du marché du « travail sans
            qualification » que pourrait générer le Programme Argent-Contre-Travail, ce dernier étant
            essentiellement destiné aux segments pauvres de la population.

            Toutefois, ce taux a été ajusté en deux étapes durant l’exécution du Projet :
            a. Suite à une décision du Conseil de Gouvernement en date du 12 Janvier 2009, il a été demandé aux
                agences/institutions œuvrant dans le système ACT/HIMO de relever le taux journalier à 2.000
                Ar/jour au lieu de 1.600 Ar/jour. Le FID a appliqué ce taux à partir à de cette date.
            b. Une décision du Management du Projet et de la Banque Mondiale 9 de relever à 2.500 Ar ce taux
                journalier après avoir évalué que ce relèvement n’affecte pas les objectifs du projet en termes
                d’indicateurs de développement du Projet (nombre de microprojets et nombre de bénéficiaires).




7 Les Agences d’Exécution, responsable de l’implémentation des activités ACT du FID sont constituées d’Associations locales impliquées
dans le domaine social, des Associations cultuelles, des Organisations Non Gouvernementales présélectionnées par le FID en début
d’exercice.

8
 N. Andrianjaka and A Milazzo, June 2008, Travaux publics à haute intensité de main d’œuvre (HIMO) pour la protection sociale à
Madagascar : problèmes et option de politique »

9
    Cf. Aide Mémoire de Supervision du 22 Janvier au 16 Février 2011.



                                                                   43
          3.2. Composante 2 : Projets Communautaires – US$ 8.40 million.

          a.   Cette composante financera des infrastructures communautaires de base afin d’augmenter l’accès
               aux services socio-économiques de base avec la contribution des communautés participantes.
          b.   Le mécanisme de ciblage s’effectue comme suit :
                   (i) Classement des communautés par rapport à l’échelle de pauvreté sur la base du dernier
                         recensement 10 des communes et une consultation transparente des autorités (niveau
                         régional, district et communal),
                   (ii) Lancement d’une campagne de communication auprès des communautés pauvres et,
                   (iii) Sélection des communautés bénéficiaires, après la réception d’une requête de sous-projet
                         éligible techniquement et financièrement sur la base du principe « premier arrivé, premier
                         servi ».

          c.   Sélection des sous projets :

          Le tableau suivant résume la liste des microprojets éligibles et exécutables sous la composante « Projets
          Communautaires »
          LOCALISATION                                   SOUS PROJETS ELIGIBLES
                                     Micro-périmètres irrigués (superficie inférieure à 100 hectares)
                                     Dispositifs anti-érosifs (pour pistes et protection de sources de captage)
                                     Entretien de système d’adduction d’eau villageois (AEP)
                                     Pistes de desserte (hors responsabilité communale)
          Zones rurales
                                     Barques non motorisées pour usage communautaire,
                                     Couloirs de vaccination et abreuvoirs,
                                     Greniers communautaires,
                                     Travaux d’assainissement et de Maintenance
                                     Mesures préventives contre les désastres naturels,
          Zones urbaines
                                     Maintenance urbaine et travaux d’assainissement

          d.   La réalisation d’un Projet communautaire s’effectue à partir d’une requête formulée par les
               bénéficiaires eux-mêmes après visa de l’autorité communale (Maire). Après évaluation technico-
               financière, le FID notifiera officiellement les requérants sur la suite à donner. La réalisation d’un
               Projet communautaire peut être confiée entièrement à la communauté [maîtrise d’ouvrage
               communautaire] pour les travaux simples ne nécessitant pas de techniques complexes ou par le FID
               lui-même [en maîtrise d’ouvrage déléguée ou MOD] dans le cas de travaux plus complexes
               nécessitant une expertise avancée (ouvrages de franchissement, pistes….)

          e.   Dans le cas de la réalisation par la communauté elle-même du sous projet, une « Cellule de
               Gestion de Projet » mise en place à cet effet signera une « Convention de Financement avec le FID
               dans laquelle seront définis les rôles et attributions de chacun. Le FID assistera la cellule de Projet
               en leur procurant une série de formations dont :
                    (i) Sur la passation de marchés
                    (ii) Sur la gestion financière et technique y compris les modèles de reporting,
                    (iii) Sur la gestion de contrats avec les partenaires (Bureaux de contrôle, Entreprises de
                          travaux)
                En sus de la supervision périodique, le FID transférera selon les conditions définies par la
                convention de financement sus-citée en plusieurs tranches le financement du sous projet suivant
                l’avancement technique des travaux.

          f.   Dans le cas où la réalisation du sous projet incombe entièrement au FID, ce dernier signe avec
               la communauté une « Convention de Maîtrise d’Ouvrage Déléguée » qui lui autorise de subroger
               aux rôles et attributions du maître d’ouvrage qu’est la communauté.

          g.   Le financement d’un Projet Communautaire ne saurait dépasser USD$ 42.000 y compris les
               charges relatives aux renforcements de capacités et diverses formations nécessaires. Par ailleurs, les


10
   Les premières données de recensement utilisées était celles de 2007 établies par Ch. MOSER (commune census – 2007). Le recensement
censitaire établi par la Direction Démographique et des Ménages de l’INSTAT en 2010 a permis de réactualiser ce recensement.



                                                                  44
      bénéficiaires contribueront au coût du sous projet à hauteur de 5% en nature (matériaux ou main-
      d’œuvre) ou en numéraire à réaliser avant la réception des travaux. Il est par ailleurs prévu que
      0,5 % de ces apports soient en numéraire, destiné comme fond d’entretien.

  3.3. Composante 3 : Réhabilitation et reconstruction en réponse aux catastrophes naturelles –
  US$ 12.80 million.

      a.   Cette composante financera la restauration de l’accès aux services socio-économiques de
           base (écoles, centres de santé, pistes rurales, adduction d’eau potable…) conséquemment aux
           catastrophes naturelles dont particulièrement les cyclones. Cette composante financera
           également les formations nécessaires aux agences d’implémentation de sous-traitance dont les
           bureaux d’études.
      b.   Ciblage et sélection des sous-projets : le mécanisme de ciblage dans cette composante
           s’effectue comme suit :
                  i. Elaboration par le Bureau National de Gestion des Risques et Catastrophes (BNGRC)
                     des zones sinistrées par les catastrophes dont particulièrement la trajectoire des
                     cyclones.
                 ii. Identification de toutes les infrastructures nécessitant une réhabilitation ou un
                     reconstruction,
               iii. Priorisation parmi les infrastructures endommagées à travers un processus transparent
                     de consultation avec les autorités régionales, districts et communes, incluant la
                     personne responsable de gestion des risques et catastrophes (GRC).
                iv. Réhabilitation ou reconstruction des infrastructures priorisées.

           Ce mécanisme inclut également une limitation de nombre d’infrastructures
           réhabilitables/reconstructibles par commune afin d’obtenir un bénéfice équitable par rapport
           aux populations sinistrées. La pondération du nombre d’infrastructures à intervenir par rapport
           au nombre de population (sur la base des données de recensement) a permis d’atteindre cet
           objectif.

      c.   Modalités d’exécution : le FID est entièrement responsable de l’ensemble de la coordination,
           de la gestion et du financement de cette composante suivant son Manuel de Procédures établi
           pour cette composante. Par ailleurs, comme dans la composante 2 (voir supra) des sous projets
           peuvent-être exécutés par les communautés bénéficiaires, à l’exception de sous projets
           complexes ou d’envergure auxquels le FID requerra l’autorisation des communautés
           bénéficiaires. Les modalités d’exécution identiques à la composante 2 seront donc appliquées :
                 i. Signature d’une convention de financement avec une cellule de Projet avec le FID
                    dans le cas d’une « maîtrise d’ouvrage communautaire » avec les modalités qui
                    s’ensuivent,
                ii. Signature d’une « Convention de Maîtrise d’Ouvrage Déléguée » entre le FID et les
                    bénéficiaires.

      d.   Coûts des sous projets : le financement par le FID d’un sous projet de réhabilitation /
           reconstruction ne saurait dépasser USD$ 75.000 (USD$ 130.000 dans le cas des pistes).
           Par ailleurs, étant donné que cette composante a pour but de réhabiliter des infrastructures
           conséquemment aux catastrophes naturelles, aucune participation par les communautés
           sinistrées n’est requise.

  3.4 Composante 4 : Administration du Projet – Suivi Evaluation et Audit – US$ 6.90 million.

           Cette composante finance (i) l’administration du Projet, coûts opérationnels et formation (ii)
           conseils et assistance technique, supervision de la mise en œuvre des sous projets (iii) média et
           campagnes d’information (iv) audits financiers et techniques (v) véhicules et équipements.

4. EVALUATION RETROSPECTIVE                            DE      LA     PREPARATION               ET     DE
   L’EXECUTION DU PROJET :
  4.1. PREPARATION DU PROJET



                                                 45
La bonne internalisation par toutes les parties prenantes (gouvernement, partenaires de développement)
des bases requérant la mise en place du Projet comme c’est décrit dans l’introduction du présent rapport
a facilité largement le processus de préparation du Projet.

Par ailleurs, à l’instar des diverses procédures propres à la Banque Mondiale pour le montage de ce type
de Projet, l’on a aussi constaté une participation active de toute l’équipe du FID (équipe centrale et
équipes régionales) avec le partage des expériences de terrain, de l’application des leçons tirées du
management du Programme de Développement Communautaire (qui allait se clôturer en Décembre
2008) ainsi que la ferme volonté d’aller de l’avant pour contribuer au développement de Madagascar.

Ainsi, sous les leaderships incontestables du Chargé de Projet et du Chef de Projet avec l’appui des
spécialistes locaux de la Direction Pays de la Banque Mondiale, le document d’évaluation du Projet
(PAD) a été ficelé dans les délais raisonnables.

De la part des agents du FID, la mise à jour des manuels de procédures et les outils y afférents dont :

         Les Manuels de procédures opérationnels par composante technique,
         Les Manuels Administratifs et Financiers cadrés au design du Projet sur le plan comptable,
         Les Manuels de Procédures Environnementales actualisés selon la recommandation de la
          Banque Mondiale y compris la consultation publique,
ont été réalisés dans le temps imparti et ont obtenu l’Avis de Non Objection de la Banque Mondiale en
date du …….

Par ailleurs, les diverses sollicitations et consultations effectuées auprès des responsables étatiques
(ministères sectoriels, institutions spécialisées) ainsi que les diverses institutions partenaires du
développement n’ont fait que corroborer les meilleures dispositions pour la mise en place du Projet.

Ainsi, au sujet de la préparation, toutes les conditions en vue de la mise en vigueur du crédit ont été
entamées à l’issue de la signature des Documents Juridiques en date du 19 Janvier 2009.

4.2 EXECUTION DU PROJET

        Vers la fin du dernier trimestre 2008 et durant le premier trimestre 2009, Madagascar a été le
         théâtre d’une crise socio-politico-institutionnelle généralisée avec la mise en place d’une
         autorité de fait. Face à cette situation et selon ses propres procédures, la Banque Mondiale a
         décidé de suspendre toutes ses activités à Madagascar dont le nouveau Projet « Emergency
         Food Security and Reconstruction Project – Cr. 4537 MAG » et dont la mise en vigueur a été
         fixée le 09 Mars 2009.

        Au mois de Septembre 2009, une mission d’évaluation de la Banque est passée à Madagascar
        afin d’évaluer les capacités du FID pour le démarrage des activités à l’issue de laquelle les
        décaissements relatifs :
             o à la Composante 1 (Filet de Sécurité Sociale – Argent Contre Travail) et
             o à la Composante 4 (Gestion du Projet, Suivi Evaluation et Audit)
        ont été autorisés. Les premiers décaissements ont eu lieu au mois de Décembre 2009. Ces
        décaissements ont été mis sous la procédure OP. 7.30 de la Banque Mondiale intitulée
        « dealing with de facto governments »
        Par la suite, au mois de Mai 2010, les décaissements relatifs aux deux autres composantes :
             o Composante 2 : Projets Communautaires et,
             o Composante 3 : Réhabilitation et reconstruction en réponse aux catastrophes
                  naturelles
    ont été également autorisés (sous la procédure OP. 7.30 de la Banque Mondiale intitulée « dealing
    with de facto governments »également)

        Compte tenu de ces évènements qui ont retardé le démarrage du Projet, à la demande du
         Gouvernement Malgache, la Banque Mondiale a accepté en date du 15 Juin 2011 la
         prorogation de la date de clôture du projet, initialement prévue au31/12/2011.
        La date de clôture du Projet est donc fixée au 30 Juin 2013.




                                               46
       Malgré ces péripéties qui ont affecté le démarrage du Projet, il paraît utile de
       relever dans le présent rapport certains points marquants la vie du Projet :
           4.2.1.   Points forts :

                        4.2.1.1 Interne

       Avec une expérience d’une vingtaine d’années dans le domaine de développement multisectoriel à
       Madagascar, le FID possède actuellement un système managérial bien rôdé axé sur les résultats. Par
       ailleurs, quelques domaines caractéristiques méritent d’être cités constituant les points forts qui
       corroborent cette qualité managériale :

  i.      Ressources humaines / expertise : les expériences acquises lors de la réalisation des trois autres
          fonds sociaux (FID I, FID II, FIDIII) et le Programme de Développement Communautaire (PDC)
          précédents ont constitué une masse significative d’expertise constituée de cadres opérationnels et
          compétents en réalisation de sous projets de développement multisectoriel.

 ii.      Décaissement : le rythme de décaissement et la qualité de la gestion financière du FID ont fait que
          d’une part, aucun problème majeur n’est survenu au cours de la réalisation du Projet et que d’autre
          part, tous les audits financiers externes réalisés n’ont pas fait l’objet d’aucune réserve tels que requis
          par l’Accords de Financement.

iii.      Organisationnelle : La présence d’unités décentralisées (Directions Inter Régionales) a permis une
          bonne couverture nationale ayant permis un taux élevé de pénétration même au niveau de zones très
          enclavées. Par ailleurs, cette forme décentralisée du FID lui a permis une rapidité d’action surtout en
          cas de catastrophes naturelles telles les cyclones, améliorant d’autant la qualité et la pertinence de
          ses interventions.

iv.       Flexibilité opérationnelle : La mise en place du Filet de Sécurité – Argent Contre-Travail, avec un
          design particulier d’atteindre les groupes sociaux vulnérables à l’insécurité alimentaire et des
          catastrophes naturelles, a incité le FID d’affermir en permanence et de manière dynamique les
          mécanismes de ciblage y afférents ayant combiné la recherche-action dans un contexte où les
          données de base nécessaires ne sont pas disponibles ou sont disparates. Par ailleurs, aucun
          mécanisme permanent n’est présent sur le territoire national en vue d’être utilisable en temps voulu
          concernant le ciblage.

 v.       Du point de vue procédurier : La disponibilité d’une procédure opérationnelle suffisamment
          précise mais souple ainsi que le système d’information comptable et de suivi évaluation adapté a
          permis une aisance opérationnelle pour l’atteinte des objectifs. Par ailleurs, les mises à jour
          nécessaires en application des leçons tirées des activités de terrain ont incrémenté la qualité des
          procédures du FID, le mettant à l’abri de toute mésinterprétation préjudiciable à une gestion saine et
          rigoureuse.

vi.       Mémoire institutionnelle :
          Les activités auxquelles le FID a démontré son efficacité (gestion de fonds sociaux, réponses aux
          catastrophes, protection sociale…) avec sa connaissance de terrain et la qualité de ses réalisations lui
          confèrent naturellement comme une des références en matière de développement multisectoriel
          touchant le domaine socio-économique à Madagascar.

                              1.   Externe

 i.       Notoriété de l’institution vis-à-vis des autorités (gouvernement, administration, élus locaux) :
          Les autorités tant nationales (ministères sectoriels) que locales (élus communaux) ont toujours
          manifesté une confiance certaine au FID. Particulièrement au niveau national, durant la période de
          crise socio-politico-institutionnelle de 2009 à ce jour, ou durant les périodes cycloniques des
          dernières années, le FID est toujours apprécié dans ses interventions.

ii.       Confiance des bénéficiaires :
          Les bénéficiaires ont toujours gardé à travers le FID l’image de « l’engagement tenu ». Et c’est
          toujours d’actualité pour EFSRP car le FID a toujours tenu ses engagements pour la réalisation des

                                                      47
          besoins justifiés des bénéficiaires directs dès qu’il s’est prononcé à les réaliser dans toutes les
          composantes d’EFSRP.
          Par ailleurs, l’enquête auprès de ces bénéficiaires directs (travailleurs temporaires, personnel
          exploitant, élèves, patients, usagers de la route ou usagers de l’eau) effectuée avant la clôture du
          projet a été plus qu’éloquente vis-à-vis du FID.

iii.      Qualité des réalisations – respect des normes :
          A l’instar de la vulgarisation des normes paracycloniques par le FID en collaboration avec la CPGU,
          le FID a révisé ses plans standards en bâtiments par :
                La minimisation de l’utilisation de bois (absence de faux plafonds, pannes métalliques,
                   châssis vitrés en aluminium, tables-bancs semi métalliques) pour la sauvegarde
                   environnementale,

                   Le choix de toitures résistant à la rouille apportant aussi une qualité isophonique et
                    isothermique dans les bâtiments, procurant un confort certain aux utilisateurs.
                   La mise aux normes architecturales tant par le design que par l’éclairage naturel des salles
                    de classe.

          Le respect classique de la sauvegarde environnementale a été aussi renforcée lors de cette révision
          particulièrement par :
                la mise en place de latrines sèches alternées, préservant la contamination des nappes
                    phréatiques.
                La mise en place systématique d’incinérateurs pour la gestion des déchets provenant des
                    centres de santé.

iv.       Disponibilité d’un réseau fiable de partenaires techniques (MPE, BE, AGEX) formés.

          La présélection annuelle de ses partenaires techniques (MPE, BE, AGEX) suivie de cycles de
          formation ou de recyclage a mis à la disposition du FID un réseau fiable de partenaires techniques
          (sous traitant) qui garantissent la bonne réalisation des activités menées.

 v.       Création d’emplois temporaires ou permanents très significative pendant la durée de vie du
          Projet.
       Cette création d’emploi s’est matérialisée :

              par les chantiers Argent Contre Travail de la Composante Filet de Sécurité,
              par la naissance d’entreprises de BTP et de bureaux d’études techniques,
              par les autres services générés par les activités des différentes composantes (artisans fabricants
               d’outillages pour ACT, transporteurs, fournisseurs de matériaux de construction de base ainsi
               que les emplois générés par les chantiers de Protection Sociale.

           4.2.2.    Points faibles

                     4.2.2.1 Interne

  i.     Mise en place tardive des études pour l’évaluation d’impact du Programme. En final, cette situation
       ne saurait être considérée comme une faiblesse dans l’absolu en raison de :

           o La mise en œuvre échelonnée des composantes,
           o La durée totale opérationnelle du Projet (42 mois),
           o La délicatesse de mener des enquêtes quantitatives fiables pour les ACT étant donné que le
             taux de pauvreté a explosé entre 2005 et 2010 (+10%)
        o Le contexte d’insécurité grandissante et généralisée en zone urbaine que rurale sur tout le
             territoire national depuis 2 ans.
 ii. Retard dans la mise en place d’un système de gestion/paramétrage des bénéficiaires du Projet en vue
    d’une caractérisation rationnelle de leur profils-types.




                                                     48
                               4.2.2.2. Externe

       i.        Bien que des conventions ont été établies entre le FID et avec les ministères sectoriels aux fins de bien
                 coordonner les activités (particulièrement la mise en cohérence avec les programmations sectorielles
                 des sous projets approuvées par le FID cette coordination a beaucoup souffert de la lenteur
                 administrative, de la carence en communication entre les centres de décisions ministériels et leurs
                 services déconcentrés.

      ii.        Toujours du point de vue externe, la soutenabilité des réalisations souffre dans certains endroits à cause
                 de la non appropriation par les bénéficiaires des réalisations ce qui compromet dans une certaine mesure
                 la pérennisation des acquis.

     iii.        Par ailleurs, les faiblesses techniques et financières des partenaires sociaux (communes et
                 communautés) a été notée durant la réalisation du Projet lesquelles se manifestent par des fuites de
                 responsabilités ou prises de décisions appropriées.

            5. ANALYSE   DES    PRINCIPAUX                                FACTEURS              AYANT            AFFECTE
               L’EXECUTION DES RESULTATS
            a.   Comme mentionné précédemment, la mise en œuvre du Projet « Emergency Food Security and
                 Reconstruction Project – EFSRP » s’est effectuée dans une période instable à Madagascar. Cette
                 situation lui a conférée diverses « pressions » de toutes sortes et de sollicitations de la part de certaines
                 « autorités » qui avaient voulu in fine influer sur la mise en œuvre des activités.

            b.   La notoriété largement reconnue du FID comme Agence d’Exécution laquelle sous-tend la rigueur et le
                 professionnalisme qui ont prévalu dans l’exécution des activités ont affecté de manière favorable à
                 l’atteinte des résultats qui sont décrits dans la section suivante.

            c.   Ceci est aussi dû d’une part à la qualité professionnelle et la motivation de ses agents mais aussi et
                 surtout la disposition de manuels de travail (manuels de procédures et manuels d’exécution) clairs et
                 très pertinents d’autre part.

            d.   Néanmoins, trois faits ont plus ou moins affecté l’implémentation des différentes composantes sans
                 toutefois compromettre l’atteinte des résultats :

                     o    Le système de “rotation” des travailleurs en ACT qui, a fait « exploser » le nombre de
                          bénéficiaires pendant les premières périodes d’implémentation du programme et partant a
                          diminué substantiellement le revenu net reçu par chaque bénéficiaire. Cette situation a été
                          corrigée par la suite 11 si bien que le design qui y a été décrit a été scrupuleusement suivi par le
                          FID. A noter que ce système de rotation a été généré par la volonté d’un très grand nombre de
                          personnes de participer aux activités ACT, la pauvreté ambiante étant.

                     o    Quelques difficultés sont apparues dans la gestion de certains chantiers ACT par certaines
                          Agex pour des raisons volontaires ou par manque de capacité. Le FID a anticipé à ces
                          situations en recourant au service du BIANCO (Bureau National Anti Corruption) par le
                          renforcement de capacités des acteurs (FID, AGEX, Communautés…)

                          Par ailleurs, des mesures ont été immédiatement prises face à ces difficultés :

                                  Tenue d’audiences publiques pour mettre en exergue la redevabilité sociale des parties
                                   prenantes,
                                  Radiation des Agex défaillantes dans le registre de présélection du FID,
                                  Recouvrement par voie judiciaire des sommes indûment utilisées via la police
                                   économique ou les tribunaux. Cette opération de recouvrement continue avec un fort
                                   engagement du FID même au-delà de la date de clôture.



11
     Cf. Aide Mémoire de supervision du 22 janvier au 16 Février 2011.


                                                                  49
                o      La faiblesse technico-financière de quelques partenaires techniques en BTP (MPE et BE),
                       qui, probablement par le ralentissement de programmes d’investissement publics (PIP) dûs à la
                       crise ont vu leur capacité et leur professionnalisme affectés. De par son rôle de préservation
                       des intérêts et du pays et des bénéficiaires, le FID a procédé selon les termes des contrats de
                       sous-traitance soit à la pénalisation des retards sur les délais convenus, soit à la radiation du
                       registre des partenaires en cas de non respect avéré des termes du contrat, avec confiscation des
                       cautions, lesquelles sont utilisées pour l’achèvement des travaux.

      6. DESCRIPTION DES REALISATIONS DU PROJET – modèle du PAD page 31.
                                     Tableau d’indicateurs du PAD : données au 30 Juin 2013

                                                                                                 Situation
                                                                                                cumulée au Prévision fin
                             Indicateurs de Résultat du projet
                                                                                                  30 juin  projet (PAD)
                                                                                                   2013
1. Nombre de bénéficiaires du Programme Argent Contre Travail (ACT)                                400 580        160 000
 2. Pourcentage de réalisation des infrastructures socio-économiques endommagées prévues
                                                                                                100 %            > 75%
après 6 mois des catastrophes naturelles
                                             Indicateurs de Résultats Intermédiaires
                           Composante 1: Sécurité Alimentaire (Programme Argent Contre Travail)
1.1 Nombre Hommes Jours créés (en million)                                                               9,94            7,80
1.2 Nombre de Sous projets de Protection Sociale réalisés                                               2 123        1 600
1.3 Pistes rurales réhabilitées (km)                                                                    6 226            480
1.4 Pourcentage de femmes bénéficiaires                                                            61%           > 50%

                Composante 2 : Infrastructures de base communautaires (Sous Projets Communautaires)
2.1. Nombre de sous projets communautaires réalisés                                                      157             152
2.2. Nombre de bénéficiaires de sous projets communautaires                                         816 591         76 000
2.3. Superficies irrigables réhabilitées (hectares)                                                     2 190        3 100
2.4. Longueur de pistes rurales réhabilitées (km)                                                        204             250
                 Composante 3 : Réhabilitation et Reconstruction en réponse aux catastrophes naturelles
3.1. Nombre de sous projets de réhabilitation / reconstruction réalisés                                  331             210
3.2. Nombre d’écoles réhabilitées ou reconstruites                                                       290             123
3.3. Nombre de salles de classe réhabilitées ou reconstruites                                            918             307
3.4. Nombre de Centre de Santé de Base réhabilités ou reconstruits                                        10              30
3.5. Longueur de pistes rurales réhabilitées (km)                                                         27              95

                                 Composante 4 : Gestion du Projet, Suivi Evaluation et audit
4.1 Coût de Gestion (pourcentage de décaissement)                                                        15%             15%
4.2 Pourcentage de sous projets réalisés dans la période contractuelle                                   89%             75%
4.3 Audit financiers sans réserves                                                                           4             3
4.4. Audit technique                                                                                         1             1
4.5. Evaluation d’impact                                                                                     1             1
4.6 Evaluation du cash-for-work                                                                              2             1
4.7. Evaluation de la Réhabilitation et Reconstruction en réponse aux catastrophes naturelles                1             1




                                                                50
     7. EVALUATION DES RESULTATS ET IMPACTS DU PROJET PAR
        RAPPORT A L’OBJECTIF DE DEVELOPPEMENT DU PROJET (PDO) :

         7.1. Objectifs et résultats du Projet   : données au 30 Juin 2013.

                  Objectifs                               Objectifs du PAD                         Résultats au 30 Juin 2013
                                                          1600 microprojets ACT
         A.1 Augmenter l’accès à des                       avec 160.000                            400.580 bénéficiaires ayant
         emplois temporaires dans les                      bénéficiaires générant                   généré 9.940.000 Journées
         zones d’insécurité alimentaire                    7.800.000 Journées                       Hommes Travail
                                                           Hommes Travail                          6221 kilomètres de pistes
                                                         480 kilomètres de pistes                  rurales réhabilitées.
                                                           rurales réhabilitées

         A.2 Augmenter l’accès aux
                                                            152 microprojets                      157 microprojets
         services socio-économiques de
                                                             communautaires réalisés                communautaires réalisés
         base

                                                                                                   288 Ecoles
                                                            210 infrastructures
         B. Restaurer l’accès aux services                                                          réhabilitées/reconstruites après
                                                             réhabilitées/reconstruites
           socio-économiques de base dans                                                           cyclones avec 918 salles de
                                                             après cyclones avec 307
           des communautés affectées par                                                            classe
                                                             salles de classe
           des désastres naturels                                                                  10 CSB
                                                            30 CSB reconstruites
                                                                                                    réhabilitées/reconstruites

         7.2. Evaluation d’Impact :

                  Une évaluation d’impact du Projet a été prévue au début du 2è semestre 2012 (soit 32 mois
                   après le démarrage) particulièrement pour la Composante 1 (Argent-Contre-Travail) et les
                   Termes de Référence y afférents ont été formulés.
                  Toutefois, les conditions de réalisation d’une telle étude paraissait à l’époque très difficiles et
                   incertaines compte tenu de la crise socio-politico-institutionnelle qui prévaut jusqu’à ce jour.
                   En effet, la conduite des enquêtes nécessaires, individuelles ou collectives (focus group), avec
                   la situation d’insécurité généralisée surtout dans les zones rurales dont certaines sont classées
                   « rouges » n’a pas été jugée favorable.
                  La reprise de cette étude d’impact a été envisagée au mois de Janvier-Février 2013 mais
                   compte tenu de la clôture du crédit en cours et que le nouveau crédit (PUPIRV – P132101)
                   vient de démarrer, il fut décidé que la conduite de cette étude d’impact sera réalisée au cours de
                   la réalisation de ce nouveau projet PUPIRV qui comporte les 2 composantes principales de
                   EFSRP (Argent Contre Travail et Réhabilitation/Reconstruction Post Catastrophe).

     Afin de pallier à cette carence d’évaluation d’impact du Projet, le FID a décidé de mener une
     Evaluation du Projet par les Bénéficiaires 12 laquelle sera prise en compte dans les évaluations futures.

     8. ANALYSE DE LA PERENNITE DES ACQUIS ET RESULTATS DES
        PROJETS :
              Selon les deux fenêtres auxquelles le Projet a implémenté ses activités (ACT et Infrastructures), la
               pérennité des acquis peut s’analyser comme suit :

          8.1 Pour les activités Argent Contre Travail :

                  a)   De premier abord, les activités ayant été constituées exclusivement de travaux temporaires
                       ayant pour but final de pourvoir des revenus (temporaires aussi) pour les bénéficiaires leur


12
  Cabinet Miara Mita – Avril – Juin 2013 - Evaluation par les bénéficiaires du Projet Emergency Food Security
Reconstruction Project.


                                                            51
    permettant d’accéder à une alimentation régulière, ces revenus n’auraient induit une forme
    de pérennité qui soit palpable à l’issue des opérations.

b) Par contre, les activités complémentaires telles les formations et les activités de
   reboisement ainsi que la synergies avec d’autres partenaires de développement ont permis
   de constituer des actifs communautaires résultant des activités ACT selon le tableau
   suivant :




                                    52
                                                          TYPE D’ACTIVITES            COMPOSANTE
         ACTIONS               DOMAINE(S)                                                                   OUTPUTS
                                                        COMPLEMENTAIRES                 DU PROJET
       ENTREPRISES          D’INTERVENTION                                                                 (au 31/03/13)
                                                           IMPLEMENTEES                  AFFECTE
     Convention de           Santé Mère Enfant         Distribution de              Composante 1     43.953 bénéficiaires
     partenariat avec le     Suivi Nutritionnel des     préservatifs par le                           dont :
     Ministère de la          enfants de moins de        Ministère (via centres de
     Santé                    cinq ans,                  santé de proximité)                                   4451
                             Planning familial,        Consultations post et pré                       consultations post
                             Dépistage VIH/SIDA         natales / vaccination                           et prénatales.
                                                        Fourniture de                                         2243 enfants
                                                         contraceptifs pour les                          vaccinés
                                                         mères consentantes pour                               Dépistage en
01                                                       le Planning familial,                           nutrition de 2827
                                                        Fourniture de                                   enfants
                                                         compléments alimentaires                              Dépistage en
                                                         pour les enfants détectés                       VIH/SIDA de
                                                         en insuffisance pondérale.                      2838 personnes
                                                        Dépistage VIH/SIDA.
                                                        Orientation des enfants
                                                         malnutris dans des
                                                         Centres Spécialisés
                                                         (CRENI, CRENA)
     Convention de           Formation /               Formation des formateurs      Composante 1     20 527
     partenariat avec le      sensibilisation des        en gestion communautaire                        bénéficiaires
     Ministère de             bénéficiaires en           des espaces boisés.                             touchés.
     l’Environnement et       sauvegarde des forêts     Création de pépinières                         384 ha de
     des Forêts/SNGF          naturelles (faune,         villageoises et                                 reboisements
                              flore)                     reboisement de terrains                         communautaires.
                             Reboisements               communautaires/commun                          1 003 ha de
02
                              communautaires             aux                                             restauration de
                             Restauration de           Entretien des                                   mangroves.
                              Mangroves.                 reboisements
                                                        Restauration de
                                                         mangroves (habitats des
                                                         crevettes/crabes, sources
                                                         de revenus des pêcheurs)
     Collaboration avec      Approvisionnement         Réhabilitation en ACT-        Composante 1    443.5 km de pistes
     le Programme             des cantines scolaires     HIMO des pistes menant                          réhabilitées
     Alimentaire              supervisées par le         vers les Ecoles                                 concernant 71
     Mondial (PAM)            PAM dans le Sud de         comportant des cantines                         écoles avec 8210
03
                              Madagascar (Androy)        supervisées par le PAM                          élèves
                                                         pour leur                                       bénéficiaires
                                                         approvisionnement en
                                                         vivres.
     Convention de           Mise en synergie des      Le PIC réhabilite la Route    Composante 1    24 km de pistes
     partenariat avec les     activités                  d’Intérêt Provincial (RIP)     et 3             réhabilitées en
     Projets PIC (Projet                                 118.                                            HIMO
     Pôles Intégrés), le                                Le FID-EFSRP effectue la                       12 km pistes
     Projet de Soutien                                   jonction avec cette route                       réalisées à
     au Développement                                    de plusieurs villages en                        l’Entreprise,
     Rural (PSDR)                                        réhabilitant des pistes en                     125,20. mètres
04                                                       système HIMO ou la                              linéaires
                                                         réhabilitation d’ouvrages.                      d’ouvrages de
                                                        Le PSDR fait l’appui des                        franchissement mis
                                                         paysans producteurs en                          en place.
                                                         riziculture, arboriculture
                                                         ou ‘autres activités
                                                         génératrices de revenus
                                                         (AGR)
     Convention de           Travaux                   Le FID-EFSRP fournit la       Composante 1    5627 Bénéficiaires
05
     partenariat avec         d’assainissement des       main d’œuvre requise                            de travaux HIMO


                                                             53
l’UNICEF et la          bas-quartiers               pour les travaux                                      47.316 mètres
Commune Urbaine         d’Antananarivo              d’assainissement,                                      linéaire de
d’Antananarivo(CU                                  L’UNICEF fournit les                                   caniveaux
A)                                                  matériaux de base                                      construits/réhabilit
                                                    (ciment, moëllons) pour la                             és.
                                                    création de caniveaux                                 04 Structures
                                                    d’assainissement.                                      d’entretien mis en
                                                   La CUA appuie les                                      place (RF2)
                                                    communautés pour la
                                                    mise en place de structure
                                                    d’entretien permanent des
                                                    ouvrages réalisés (RF2)
                                                    (Rafitra Fikojakojàna sy
                                                    Fahadiovana)

          8.2. Pour les infrastructures sociales de base :

         Le problème d’entretien ou maintenance en post-projet est un sujet qui est très sensible voire récurrent à
          Madagascar en général et au FID en particulier, En effet, en raison des faiblesses technico-financières
          des différentes entités partant des Ministères sectoriels, Régions, Services déconcentrés, et des
          Communes, passant par le Fokontany et surtout les bénéficiaires ont fait que ce problème d’incapacité
          reste toujours récurrent.

         Conscient de ce problème, le FID a pris des dispositions à son niveau afin de pallier à cette carence à :

                    o   L’insertion dans les TDR des Bureaux d’Etudes de la confection d’un Manuel de
                        Gestion et d’Entretien d’Infrastructures à livrer aux bénéficiaires à la réception,
                    o   La constitution par les bénéficiaires d’un « fonds d’entretien » équivalent à 0,5% du
                        coût de l’investissement pour servir de fonds de départ pour les entretiens futurs,
                        rétrocédés au « comité d’entretien » mis en place par le FID au cours de la réalisation du
                        microprojet,
                    o   La formation « sur le tas de jeunes » du village de bénéficiaires pour la réalisation
                        ‘d’entretiens courants,

         Par ailleurs, en termes de pérennité, il est indéniable que la qualité des bâtiments réalisés par le FID en
          post catastrophes ne souffriraient de problème de durabilité qui, à l’instar des normes paracycloniques
          appliquées sur ces bâtiments, ont été réalisés avec des matériaux de très bonne qualité (pannes
          métalliques, châssis vitrés des fenêtres en aluminium, toitures résistant à la rouille….).

      9. ANALYSE DES                  PERFORMANCE                 DES       DIFFRERENTES               PARTIES
         PRENANTES :
      Les différentes parties prenantes du Projet sont principalement : l’agence d’exécution (FID), les
      communautés bénéficiaires et les autres partenaires techniques impliqués dans le projet, les communes et
      administrations décentralisées, la Banque Mondiale, le Gouvernement ;

          9.1. Le FID

      Le FID, en tant qu’agence d’exécution du Projet a toujours mené sa mission telle que celle-ci a été définie
      dans les accords légaux.

      En termes de performance et du point de vue gestion de Projet, les audits tant financiers que techniques ont
      toujours mentionné une conformité de la situation managériale du Projet par rapport aux accords passés, les
      manuels de procédures et la qualité des interventions.

      Aussi, les résultats tant quantitatifs que qualitatifs des activités mises en œuvre au cours du Projet EFSRP
      sont éloquents car ayant dépassé dans leur grande majorité les objectifs assignés au FID (cf. section 5).

      L’expérience retenue à partir de la mise en œuvre du Projet EFSRP a révélé que le FID, de par sa structure,
      son expertise la qualité de ses interventions peut prendre naturellement le rôle d’une Agence Nationale

                                                         54
     spécialisée en Protection Sociale et en Activités Post Catastrophes par la réhabilitation d’infrastructures
     endommagées par ce fléau. Ceci étant, son rôle de « vulgarisateur » des normes paracycloniques sous
     l’égide du CPGU le conforte dans ce rôle.

     Par ailleurs, les conventions /partenariat établis par le FID avec d’autres institutions et organismes ont influé
     des valeurs ajoutées non négligeables telles :

        les collaborations avec le PAM/FAO et le cluster Sécurité Alimentaire et Moyens de Subsistance,
        les Ministères sectoriels (Education, Santé, Environnement et Fôrets, UNICEF, Intérieur par le biais
         du BNGRC)
        le Bianco pou la gouvernance,
        l’UNICEF pour a complémentarité des travaux d’assainissement dans les bas quartiers d’Antananarivo..

              g.   Les communes et communautés bénéficiaires :

     Ces entités sont impliquées de manière directe dans la réalisation du Projet EFSRP essentiellement dans la
     composante 2 (Projets Communautaires) mais aussi dans les deux autres composantes avec l’intervention de
     la personne responsable locale de la gestion des risques et catastrophes (GRC).
     Bien qu’ayant déjà travaillé depuis des années avec le FID, ces entités ont du s’adapter au nouveau design 13
     du Projet. Toutefois, elles ont manifesté un dynamisme exemplaire et volontariste pour remplir leurs
     attributions respectives lors de la mise en œuvre des activités.

              h.   Le Gouvernement et la Primature

     Depuis sa création en 1993, les statuts du FID le mettent sous la tutelle de la Primature. Dans la préparation
     comme dans l’exécution des programme qui se sont succédés dont le PDC, le FID a bénéficié d’un fort
     soutien de cette dernière en particulier et du gouvernement en général pour le prémunir de toute influence
     politique néfaste qui pourrait nuire à l’atteinte des objectifs de développement du programme.

              i.    La Banque Mondiale

     La Banque Mondiale n’a pas été uniquement un bailleur de fonds pour le Projet. Dans le cadre de relations
     cordiales et constructives, elle a été une partenaire technique à part entière qui a permis la bonne
     performance du Projet en général et du FID en particulier.
     Les diverses recommandations qu’elle a émises lors des missions de supervision et revues périodiques
     (financière, environnementales et passations de marchés) ont contribué largement à la qualité des
     interventions du Projet.

              j.   Les partenaires techniques de réalisation des activités :

     Les partenaires techniques du FID dans la réalisation de ses activités sont le Petites et Moyennes Entreprise
     de travaux publics (MPE), les Bureaux d’Etudes (BE) et les Agences d’Exécution d’activités de Protection
     Sociale (AGEX).

     Les formations que le FID a prodiguées à leur endroit de ces entités et la régularité des marchés ont permis
     durant le Projet pour le développement de ces partenaires.
     Sur la base de la présélection périodique effectuée par le FID, ces entités sont répertoriées à travers des
     notations périodiques pour être des bons partenaires techniques en termes de développement socio-
     économique au niveau local à la disposition de leurs secteurs respectifs.

     Toutefois, il faut noter les « érosions » ou « déchéances quasi-généralisées » :




13
   Il a été précisé lors de la conception du Projet EFSRP que celui-ci ne s’implique pas dans les investissements sous
responsabilité communale (écoles, les bâtiments publics…) compte tenu de la préparation du Projet de Fonds de
Développement Local (FDL) dont l’IDA fait partie des bailleurs principaux prévus. Compte tenu de la crise, ce processus a
été suspendu.


                                                           55
                     o     du secteur BTP dues à l’inexistence de marchés de travaux (absence de Programme
                     d’Investissement Public ou PIP depuis la crise). Bon nombre de MPE ont ainsi cessé leurs
                     activités ou devenus en situation de faillite.

                     o      l’instabilité du secteur de services pour les BE et AGEX laquelle a perturbé le
                     développement réel de ces partenaires techniques ce qui dans une certaine mesure explique
                     la difficulté de leur accès à un véritable professionnalisme.

            k.   Les partenaires techniques intervenant dans les activités du Projet :

    La participation des autres partenaires techniques dans les activités du Projet se décline en 2 points
majeurs :

                Le Cluster Sécurité Alimentaire et Moyens de Subsistance (SAMS) co-leadé par le PAM et
                 l’UNICEF et regroupant tous les acteurs intervenant dans le domaine de Sécurité Alimentaire a
                 largement contribué à l’identification et à la priorisation avec le FID des zones d’intervention
                 de la Composante 1. Ce cluster est composé essentiellement du PAM, UNICEF, FAO, ONN,
                 Agro Action Allemande, MEDAIR, Action Contre la Faim (ACF). Des sous clusters (ou
                 clusters régionaux ont été mis en place dans les zones sensibles comme le Sud Est (Régions
                 Atsimo Atsinanana, Vatovavy Fitovinany) et les régions du grand Sud (Androy et Anosy).

                La Cellule Prévention et Gestion des Urgences ou CPGU qui est le maitre d’ouvrage pour la
                 mise en place de diverses normes de construction à Madagascar contre les dégâts cycloniques.
                 Le FID a établi une convention de partenariat avec le CPGU pour la vulgarisation par le FID
                 des normes paracycloniques à Madagascar à travers de la tenue de formations spécifiques y
                 afférentes à l’endroit des partenaires techniques (MPE et BE).

            l.   Tableau des coûts des différentes composantes du projet

            Initialement, selon l’Accord de Financement du Projet, le montant du Crédit alloué est de 26,9
            million de DTS soit 40 million de US$ équivalents, à répartir sur les 4 composantes.

            Des réaménagements ont été effectués au cours de la réalisation du Projet, notamment :

                       un relèvement de l’allocation dans la composante 1(+ 1 904 700 US$) compte tenu des
                        forts besoins exprimés après les catastrophes,
                       un ajout de 2 230 300 US$ pour la Composante 3 compte tenu également des forts besoins
                        exprimés après les catastrophes,
                       un ajout de 695 885,55 US$ pour la Composante 4 en vue de soutenir la mise en œuvre
                        des activités additionnelles.

                     EFSRP - TABLEAU RECAPITULATIF DE REAMENAGEMENT

                                                                                          Montant alloué
                                                   Allocation initiale en   Réaménagement      après
                     Libellé
                                                           US$                 en US$     réaménagement
                                                                                              en US$
                                                        (31/10/2008)
ACTIVITES
1. Protection sociale                                      12 330 400,00      + 1 904 732,15      14 235 132,15

2. Projet communautaire                                     8 000 000,00       -2 230 330,91       5 769 669,09

3. Réhabilitation reconstruction                           12 800 000,00      +1 226 785,09       14 026 785,09

4. Administration, Suivi Evaluation et Audit                6 869 600,00        +695 885,55        7 565 485,55


TOTAL GENERAL                                              40 000 000,00                 0,00     41 597 071,88



                                                      56
        Toutefois, il faut noter qu’un gain substantiel en trésorerie, d’un montant de 1 597 071,88USD, a
        été relevé durant le premier trimestre 2013, dû notamment

                 au gain de change US$/Ariary,
                 à l’économie sur les offres (en moins) lors des appels d’offres.

   Ces gains substantiels ont permis au FID d’engager davantage de microprojets notamment dans la
   Composante 1 (Argent-Contre-Travail) et dans la composante 3 (Réhabilitation/Reconstruction post-
   catastrophe (surtout après le cyclone Haruna)

        Au final, la configuration financière du Projet en termes d’allocation et engagements se présente comme
        suit :

 EFSRP - TABLEAU RECAPITULATIF D’ALLOCATION ET D’ENGAGEMENT

                                                                                    Ecart        Apports des
                                Allocation initiale en     Engagement           Engagement       bénéficiaires
          Libellé
                                        US$                total en US$       Total/Allocation
                                                                               initiale en US$
                                    (31/10/2008)
ACTIVITES
1. Protection sociale                   12 330 400,00         14 235 132,15     + 1 904 732,15

2. Projet communautaire                  8 000 000,00          5 769 669,09      -2 230 330,91       326 887,56
3. Réhabilitation
reconstruction                          12 800 000,00         14 026 785,09     +1 226 785,09
4. Administration, Suivi
Evaluation et Audit                      6 869 600,00          7 565 485,55       +695 885,55
TOTAL GENERAL                           40 000 000,00         41 597 071,88       1 597 071,88       326 887,56

    10. LES PRINCIPALES LECONS APPRISES DE L’EXPERIENCE DU PROJET :
        Les principales leçons apprises de l’expérience du Projet se répartissent sur la base des acquis du point
        de vue interne et ceux acquis du point de vue externe :

             a.   Du point de vue interne :

             Les expériences engrangées par le FID depuis le début de ses activités en 1993 lui a permis d’avoir
             une notoriété certaine au niveau national.

             De par ces expériences, le FID s’est muée après chaque cycle de Financement / Projet qu’i a géré à
             gagner en maturité et en qualité des prestations.

             Les mises à jour cycliques des manuels de procédures tant opérationnelles qu’Administratives et
             Financières ont pu jeter les bases d’une rigueur managériale qui a permis au FID d’avoir une bonne
             efficacité dans le développement de ses activités.

             Ainsi, tant du point de vue passation de marchés, décaissement et suivi-évaluation les outils
             appropriés acquis durant le Projet ont largement amélioré la performance du FID (TOM2PRO,
             TOMMARCHE et TECPRO).

             Par ailleurs, les cycles de formation pour le perfectionnement de ses cadres à l’intérieur comme à
             l’extérieur ont été plus que bénéfiques, étant entendu ces formations ciblées ont eu des retombées
             positives dès leur achèvement (formation générique en protection sociale, méthodologie spécifique
             en ciblage en protection sociale, suivi évaluation, gestion financière, gestion de risques et
             catastrophes, management et leadership…)

             La recherche permanente de la qualité des prestations à lui assignées dont particulièrement le
             design des nouveaux bâtiments » ont valu au FID une satisfaction de tout part, particulièrement les
             utilisateurs et les Ministères sectoriels.

                                                         57
La situation de crise durant laquelle s’est effectuée la mise en œuvre du Projet, bien qu’ayant été
éprouvé le Projet en général et ses agents en particulier, a démontré que l’autonomie que le FID lui
a permis d’atteindre les objectifs du Projet.

Par ailleurs, il mérite de signaler que des études ont été menées au cours de la réalisation du Projet
dans le but d’améliorer constamment les modalités tant conceptuelles qu’opérationnelles dans sa
mise en œuvre. Nous pouvons citer :
     « L’étude socio-économique des infrastructures communautaires mises en œuvre par
          le FID »
           (Mamy Ralaivelo – 2010) reliée à la Composante II.
     « Analyse statistique de la sélection des bénéficiaires par rapport aux critères de
          pauvreté mis en œuvre par le Projet FID-EFSRP » relative à la Composante I
     « Etude pour l’Evaluation par les bénéficiaires des activités du Projet EFSRP », une
          évaluation ex-post réalisée avec le Cabinet Miara-Mita en Juin 2013.

b.   Du point de vue externe :

Une des premières leçons apprises de l’expérience Projet est sans hésitation la notion de synergie.
En effet, la participation active du FID au sein du cluster « sécurité alimentaire et moyens de
subsistance » lui a permis d’agir en toute confiance et sérénité pour la mise en œuvre de la
composante 1dans une période très critique et l’ayant évité en conséquence de toute capture
politique.

Par ailleurs, la mise en complémentation des activités du FID avec d’autres acteurs de
développement a été bénéfique en tout point :

        Complémentarité des actions entre les activités ACT du FID avec les activités du
         MINSAN en SSME,
        Synergie active des activités du FID dans la région d’Anosy avec d’autres Projets financés
         par l’IDA (PIC, PSDR)
        La participation active du FID avec le « Groupe Protection Sociale » leadés par les
         Organismes Onusiens (UNICEF, PAM, BIT, OMS) et autres bailleurs bilatéraux (GIZ).

Il mérite aussi de signaler qu’une bonne opérationnalité des structures de Gestion des Risques et
Catastrophes (BNGRC, CPGU) épargnera le pays des détériorations qui ne font qu’aggraver et
maintenir les malgaches dans la spirale des la pauvreté, qui, rappelons le, a fait un bond de +10%
entre 2005 et 2012.




                                          58
                         Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank documents:

Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Madagascar, Report No. 38 135-MG, IDA
and IFC, March 7, 2007

Madagascar: Food Security and Nutrition Project Implementation Completion Report. Report
No. 19282. May 17, 1998

Madagascar Cyclone Emergency Rehabilitation Project Implementation Completion Report.
Report No.: 17378. February 13, 1998

Madagascar Community Development Project Implementation Completion and Results
Report. Report No: ICR00001095, June 26, 2009

Project Paper: Madagascar Emergency Food Security and Reconstruction Project. Report No:
45675 – MG, November 18, 2008.

Project Paper: Madagascar Emergency Infrastructure and Vulnerability Reduction Project.
Report No: 72394 – MG, November 13, 2012

All EFSRP aide memoires and ISRs

EFSRP Program Documents

FID, « Principes de mise en œuvre des composantes du projet EFSRP- mise à jour des
mécanismes de ciblage : Allocation des fonds et ciblage des bénéficiaires de la composante
securite alimentaire » Janvier 2011

FID. Manuel des Procédures, Manuel de Gestion des Sous-Projets, Manuel de Ciblage, Manuel
de Procédures Environnementales.

FID. Rapport de Suivi des Activités 2012.

HARIFIDY Razakatoanina, ROELIJAONA Dieudonné et RAMASOMANANA Rindra – Note
sur le mécanisme de Ciblage des bénéficiaires des Composantes du Projet EFSRP – Juin 2010

HARIFIDY Razakatoanina, RAOELIJAONA Dieudonné et RAMASOMANANA Rindra –
Principes de Mise en Œuvre des Composantes du Projet EFSRP avec Mise à Jour des Mécanismes
de ciblage – Janvier 2011

RAOELIJAONA D. et RAJAO H. – Note sur les Fonds d’Entretien par Type d’infrastructures mis
en œuvre par le Projet EFSRP – Mars 2011

EFSRP Evaluations and Studies

ALLIVENJA Hagandraibe – Evolution des Prix de Riz et des Carburants de 2008 à 2011, selon
les données ROR et OMH – Janvier 2011




                                             59
Cabinet Miara-Mita. Etude pour l’Evaluation par les Bénéficiaires des Activités de Projet
EFSRP « EMERGENCY FOOD SECURITY AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT » Rapport
Final, Juin 2013

DUPETY Daniel – Audit technique et évaluation des activités post catastrophes du Projet
d’Urgence de Sécurité Alimentaire et de Reconstruction « EFSRP » - Décembre 2011

FERLAND Marcel – Rapport de la Mission d’Audit Institutionnel et Organisationnel – Septembre
2009

FERLAND Marcel – Rapport sur l’Etude Salariale – Janvier 2011

FID/RADSE/UNICEF – Situation Socio-économique des Ménages et Impact de la Crise
Sociopolitique de 2009 – District Ambovombe 2012. Mars 2013.

INSTITUT NATIONAL DE LA STATISTIQUE (INSTAT) – Evaluation finale du Projet de
Développement Communautaire (PDC) FIDIV – Avril 2011

INSTITUT NATIONAL DE LA STATISTIQUE (INSTAT) – Etude de l’efficacité du ciblage et
de l’impact des revenus distribués dans le cadre des activités « Argent Contre Travail » du Projet
EFSRP – Octobre 2011

RALAIVELO Maminirinarivo – Analyse de la rentabilité économique de cinq types de projets
communautaires de base mis en œuvre par le Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement (FID)
– Janvier 2011

RAZAFINDRAINIBE Princy – Contribution à l’analyse de l’utilisation des revenus en Argent
Contre Travail mis en œuvre par FID – EFSRP – Octobre 2011

RAZAFINDRAINIBE Andrianaivoson Princy Gérald Analyse de l’efficacité du transfert de
fonds des projets HIMO Protection Sociale du Fonds d’Intervention pour le Développement
Université d’Antananarivo, Faculté de Droit d’Economie de Gestion et de Sociologie, Août
2011




                                               60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33439R1
                                                                           45°E                                                                                                                                     50°E




                                                                                                                                                                              Antsiranana


                                                                                         Mayotte
                            MADAGASCAR                                                   (France)
                                                                                                                                                                              Ambilobe

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Vohimarina

                                                                                                                                                             Ambanja
                                                                                                                                                                                  DIANA
                                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                             e                                                  Maromokotro
                                                                                                      n                                                           (2,876 m)
                                                                                                  n                                                                         Massif                                           Sambava
                                                                                              a                                                                         Ts a r a t a na na                   SAVA
                                                                                         h                                                                                          Bealanana
                                                                                    C                                                                                                                                            Antalaha
                                                                                                                                       Antsohihy
15°S                                                                   e                                                                                                                                                                                       15°S
                                                                   u
                                                           iq
                                                                                                                                                            Sofi                  Befandriana
                                                                                                                                                                   a                                              Maroantsetra
                                                       b                                       Mahajanga
                                                 m                                                                                                          SOFIA
                                             a                                                                                                                                        Mandritsara
                                         z                                                                                                              Mampikony
                                     o                                        Soalala                                                                      em




                                                                                                                                                            B
                                                                                                                                                             ar




                                                                                                                                                                                                      avo
                                 M                                                       va                           BOÉNY                                     iv                                                 Mananara
                                                                                                      Mahavavy


                                                                                                                                                M
                                                                                     a




                                                                                                                                                                       o
                                                                                  ol                                                                                                                        ANALANJIROFO



                                                                                                                                                 ah




                                                                                                                                                                                         Cliff of Ang
                                                                              g




                                                                                                                                                   ajamba
                                                  Besalampy
                                                                        n
                                                                       Bo




                                                                                                      Maevatanana                                                          Andilamena                           Soanierana-Ivongo

                                                                                                                             BETSIBOKA ALAOTRA
                                                                 of




                                                                       MELAKY                                                           MANGORO                                                              Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                ff




                                                                                             Kandreho                        Andriamena
                                                                     Ma
                                                               Cli




                                                                       na                                                                                                      Lake
                                                                         mb                                                                 B                                  Alaotra
                                                                              aho
                                                                                                                                                                              Ambatondrazaka
                                                                                                                                            ets
                                                                                                                                                iboka



                                     Maintirano                                                                            Ankazobe
                                                                                                                                                                       Andilanatoby
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Toamasina
                                                                                             ANALAMANGA
                                                                                      BONGOLAVA                ATSINANANA
                                                       Antsalova
                                                                            Tsiroanomandidy   ITASY ANTANANARIVO
                                                                                                                 Miarinarivo                                                Moramanga
                                                                                                                      Tsiafajovona                                                                                                INDIAN
                                                                                                                         (2,642 m)                                                        Vatomandry
                                                                                                                                                Antanifotsy
                                                                                                                         ata




                                              Belo Tsiribihina
                                                                       Miandrivazo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OCEAN
                                                                                                       VAKINANKARATRA                                              Mang
                                                                                                                       kar




                                                                                                                                                                        oro
                                                                        Tsiribihina                   Man
                                                                                                         ia                          Antsirabe                                        Mahanoro
                                                                                                                      An




20°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20°S
                                             Morondava
                                                                        Malaimbandy
                                                                                                      AMORON’I MANIA
                                                                                                          Ambatofinan-                  Ambositra
                                                                     MENABE                                  drahana
                                                                                                                                                                               Varika

                                                                                                                                       Ambohimahasoa
                                                                Mandabe
                                                                                                  HAUTE-MATSIATRA                                                           Mananjary
                                                   Manja                                                          Fianarantsoa
                                                                     Beroroha                                                                    VATOVAVY-
                         Morombe                                  goky
                                                               Man                                                                              FITOVINANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0     40        80    120       160    200 Kilometers
                                                                       Ankazoabo                                               Pic Boby                            Manakara
                                                                                                  Ihosy                        (2,658 m)
                                          ATSIMO-
                                         ANDREFANA                                                IHOROMBE                                                                                                  0          40            80           120 Miles

                                                                                                                                Ma                          Farafangana                                             50°E
                                                          na                                                                      na
                                                        na      Sakaraha                                                             na
                                                     ere                                                                               ra
                                                 F ih                                          Betroka
                                 Toliara
                                                  Betioky
                                                                     Onilahy
                                                                                                                        Midongy-
                                                                                                                          Atsimo
                                                                                                                                       ATSIMO-
                                                                                                                                     ATSINANANA
                                                                                                                                                                                                   MADAGASCAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                             Tsivory
                                                                                    Berakete                                                                                                                       REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                            re




This map was produced by
                                                                                                           ra




the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                       Mand




World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
colors, denominations and                                              Ampanihy                                       ANOSY
any other information shown
                                                                          dr         lat              eau                                                                                                          RIVERS
                                                                               roy P
                                                                        a




on this map do not imply, on
                                                                        an
                                                                      ar A n d
                                                                                                                 Amboasary
the part of The World Bank                                          n                                                                                                      25°S                                    MAIN ROADS
Group, any judgment on the                   Androka               e
                                                                               Ambovombe                                             Tolanaro
                                                                       Beloha
                                                               M




legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or                                                         ANDROY                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
acceptance of such
boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                                        REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                           45°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          APRIL 2013
