Report No. PID10717
Project Name                     Macedonia-Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Multi-sectoral
Project ID                       MKPE76192
Borrower                         Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance,
assisted by National Bank
Address: Dame Gruev 14
91000, Skopje
Contact: Mr. Goran Anceski
Telephone: 389 2 106 454
Fax: 389 2 106 140
Email: gorana@finance.gov.mk
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           October 2, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        September 25, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         October 3, 2001
Projected Board Date             December 20, 2001
1. Country and sector background
A recently-ended civil conflict in FYR Macedonia has created an
emergency situation. Tens of thousands of persons have been pushed out
of their homes and have become internally displaced, while equal
numbers of refugees have fled to Kosovo since the spring of 2001, with
many remaining there as of September 2001. Security costs coupled with
declining tax revenues have worsened the government's budget position
by more than 8 percent or more of GDP for this year. The balance of
payments has deteriorated sharply because of trade disruptions and
general uncertainty. Official reserves losses were near US$170 million
for the first half of the year. Issues of macroeconomic stability have
reemerged and may not dissipate quickly since the rebuilding of a
stable multi-ethnic society is likely to take substantial time and
funding, with lingering uncertainty in the interim.
Following a NATO-brokered ceasefire put in place on July 6, 2001, an
internationally mediated peace agreement was signed on August 13, 2001
by the main political parties in FYR Macedonia, representing ethnic
Macedonians and ethnic Albanians. The parliament is now in the process
of ratifying the peace agreement, by amending the constitution to
strengthen minority rights, a process coordinated with disarmament
assisted by NATO. The international community has expressed its strong
backing of the peace agreement and its willingness to provide financial
resources in support of peace building. The EU, UNHCR, and others are
already providing humanitarian aid, and an international donors'
conference will be scheduled when the peace agreement is ratified.
2. Rationale for IDA Involvement



FYR Macedonia urgently needs additional external financing to maintain
macroeconomic stability and provide support for recovery in key
activities of the economy which could falter and cause additional
social hardship. This operation is a key component of the Bank's
Transitional Support Strategy for the country.
3. Project Objectives
The proposed Emergency Economic Recovery Project, an emergency recovery
assistance credit, would support the restoration of assets and
production levels immediately after the civil disturbances that
seriously disrupted the borrower's economy during 2001 and would
encourage resource mobilization from the donor community as a whole by
setting an example of rapid assistance.
4. Project description
The Credit will provide immediate support to finance a positive list of
imports identified as necessary to an effective recovery program while
supporting macroeconomic objectives by providing financing for the
budget. While this type of operation does not include conditionality
linked to macroeconomic policies, IDA/Bank monitoring of economic
developments and close collaboration with the IMF will help ensure
adequate macroeconomic and fiscal diligence on the part of the
Government. To accommodate the emergency nature of the operation,
abbreviated processing will be used.
5. Project financing
The IDA Credit is proposed to be US$15 million equivalent, based on an
assessment of the country's requirements after considering other
sources of financing. As proposed in the recent Transitional Support
Strategy, in recognition of the highly exceptional nature of FYR
Macedonia's access to IDA resources, the operation will have a final
maturity of 20 years, with 10 years of grace, and carry the standard
IDA service charge of 75 basis points. No acceleration clause will be
included in the credit agreement.
6. Project implementation
The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance in close
collaboration with the National Bank since it will largely support
import financing requirements. The credit will finance imports on a
positive list to be agreed with the Government. Twenty percent of the
credit will be used for retroactive financing of expenditures.
Adequate reporting will be provided by the Ministry of Finance and the
National Bank, and auditing will be provided by an independent auditing
agency. Procurement and disbursement arrangements will be designed in
compliance with Bank Group guidelines. The project will be implemented
over a six-month period and is expected to be completed by June 30,
2002.
7. Project sustainability
The direct impact of the operation is modest, but it is expected that
the resources mobilized from the donor community as a whole will
contribute to short-term macroeconomic stability and medium-term
creditworthiness. This operation will be followed by an adjustment
operation and investment operations that will improve macroeconomic
outcomes and development prospects and would support sustainability of
-2 -



this project.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country and emergency
operations elsewhere
An earlier emergency operation, prepared in response to the Kosovo
crisis in 1999, presents a number of lessons for this operation: (a)
financial management should be flexible so as not to delay
disbursement; and (b) indicators of overall impact of this type of
operation could include timeliness of Bank response and speed of
disbursements. Lessons from other emergency operations include: (a)
quick disbursing support is best provided through a separate operation
such as an emergency recovery loan; (b) longer term concerns should not
be combined with emergency support objectives; and (c) timely response
is critical so accelerated and streamlined processing is necessary.
These lessons have been taken into account in the design of this
operation.
9. Project benefits
The import financing under the proposed credit will provide timely
balance of payments support to the Government to allow for critical
imports despite the damage to the current account and private financing
flows caused by the recent conflict and ongoing uncertainty. The
counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange will
provide the Government with an important source of non-inflationary
finance at a time when there will be need for additional public
spending and pressure on revenues due to lower economic growth. The
balance of payments support to be provided under this credit will be
critical in maintaining macroeconomic stability while improving
productive capacity, and ensuring the adequate supply of essential
equipment, materials and commodities for the social and economic
sectors. It will complement the support for short- and medium-term
recovery that will be provided by other multilateral and bilateral
agencies.
10. Project risks
The major risk of the operation is that investment and exports may fail
to recover over a protracted period of time with continued debilitating
effects on the balance of payments and on economic growth, and that the
fiscal deficit will not be controlled because of falling revenue and
continued expenditure demands. If this risk materialized, the Bank
would work with the international donor community so that necessary
additional resources could become available to the country, and the
Bank would further support economic growth through a follow-on
structural adjustment loan. A further risk is that the current peace
settlement will not hold and that renewed violence will undermine
political stability as well as economic recovery. If violence were to
return, actions would be taken by the international community, in
particular the Europeans, to provide support for security and to
attempt to resolve differences between communities in the country.
Thirdly, the authorities may be unable to provide the coordination
necessary for procurement and financial management as required by the
project, preventing timely disbursement. In this case, Bank experience
with the previous emergency operation will provide knowledge useful to
help overcome any issues as they arise.
- 3-



9. Poverty category:
Not targeted.
10.  Environmental aspects:     Category C.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Erika Jorgensen, ECSPE
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone.: (202) 473-5343
Fax No.:(202) 614-7777
12. For information on other project related documents, contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 19, 2001
- 4 -



