Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3585 MK
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Economic Recovery Credit)
between
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
(The Borrower)
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
    (The Association)
Dated December 18, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3585 MK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 2001, between the Borrower and the Association.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Page  2
Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries." ; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
" Project Implementation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
"MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower; and
(d)
"National Bank" means the Borrower’s central bank. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million six hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its National Bank, a deposit account on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
Page  3
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 
2012, and ending November 15, 2021.  Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of 
such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with the assistance of the National Bank pursuant to the provisions of 
the Project Implementation Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative and environmental 
practices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.  
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement and for the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower, represented 
by MOF, shall enter into an agreement (the Project Implementation Agreement) with the 
National Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project Implementation 
Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, assign, abrogate, 
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Project Implementation Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
Page  4
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. With respect to the goods under any category of eligible imports 
listed in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall not use or 
permit to be used any such goods for military purposes.  
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall or shall cause the National Bank to:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section audited in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the last 
disbursement, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) 
of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of 
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether 
the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the National Bank shall have 
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project Implementation Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
Page  5
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Project Implementation Agreement has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and the National Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project 
Implementation Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the 
National Bank and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the National Bank in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Dame Gruev 14
1000 Skopje
Telex:
Facsimile:
51119
(389-2) 117280
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE BORROWER
By /s/ Nikola Dimitrov
Authorized Representative
THE ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Page  6
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to such Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in such Category:
  Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(to be Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Eligible imports
11,600,000
100% of foreign
required for the Project
expenditures 
as specified in 
Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement
TOTAL
11,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,320,000 may 
be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
September 1, 2001; 
(b)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $20,000 
equivalent; 
(c)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance or which the Association has financed or agreed to 
finance under another credit;  
(d)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to 50% of the 
amount of the Credit for any category of eligible imports specified in Schedule 4 
without prior approval by the Association; and 
(e)
expenditures for used or luxury goods.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods 
procured by the private sector costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent; and (b) 
commonly traded commodities such as seeds, fertilizers, petroleum and fuel products, 
procured under Part C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to restore assets and 
economic and social activities after civil disturbances that occurred during the year 
of 2001.
The Project consists of the financing of critical imports as specified in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, subject to such modifications thereof as the Borrower 
and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  7
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this 
Part A (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Schedule.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. Given the nature of the Credit, 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines shall specifically apply.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this Part, commonly traded 
commodities shall be procured through organized international commodity markets or 
other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines.
2.
Commonly traded commodities, estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, and goods imported by the private sector estimated to cost less than 
$3,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with established 
commercial practices satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.12 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured under Part B of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
List of Eligible Imports to be Financed Under the Credit 
1.
Construction materials
2.
Water and land transport vehicles
3.
Seeds
4.
Fertilizer
5.
Agriculture equipment, spare parts and inputs
6.
Medical supplies and equipment
7.
Petroleum, fuel products and coal
8.
Construction equipment and industrial machinery
9.
Spare parts, raw materials and intermediate goods for industry and services
Page  8
