Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5439
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PORY)
--vSECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 560-YDR)
January 30, 1985
£
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East, and North Africa Region
IMTis document bas . restricted distribtio ad may be Ised by recipients nly In the perfornmce of
their offcial dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank a_tborztion.



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
FWDV       -   Four-wheel drive vehicles
IDA        -   International Development Associarion
KFAED      -   Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MOC        -   Ministry of Construction
HPW        -   Ministry of Public Works
PDRY       -   Peoples Democratic Republic of Yemen
PENMAC     -   Penetration Macadam
SBST       -   Single Bituminous Surface Treatment
SDR        -   Special Drawing Rights
TA         -   Technical Assistance
UNDP       -   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PPRy)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, (Credit 560-YDR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               i
Basic Data Sheet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             ii
Highlights ....  .       .  .  .  .  .    . ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  iv
I.  INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.  . .               2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS . . . . . . . . . . . .              4
(a)  Project Scope and Content . . . . . . . . . . . . .             4
(b)  Implementation . . . i . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              4
(i)  Road Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
(ii)  Engineering and Economic Studies . . . . . .            7
(iii)  Technical Assistance and Fellowships . . . .            8
(iv)  Purchase of Road Maintenance Equipment . . .            9
(c)  Time and Cost Overrurs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
IV.  COVENANTS . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              11
V.  INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12
VI.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              13
VII.  CONCLUSIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Tables                                                            Page No.
1.  Project Financing Plan and Use of Credit Proceeds  . . . . . .  16
2.  Construction Equipment and Procurement (Main Items) . . . ..  17
3.  Disbursements, Category 3 - Engineering and Economic Studies .  18
4.  Training Fellowships . . .., . .  . . 6 .                       19
5. Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs  . .    . .   20
6. Actual and Forecast Traffic  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
7.  Traffic Growth Rates   . . .  . . . .  . ... . . . . .    .  22
8.  1983 Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates  . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
9. Reestimate of Cost and Benefit Flows   . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
10.  Reestimates and Appraisal Estimates of Economic Returns  . . .  25
Chart
Disbursement and Planned and Actual Procurement  . . . . . . .  26
1. IBRD 13831R - PDRY, Transport Infrastructure
2. IBRD 11046R - PDRY, Second Highway Project, Project Location



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Credit 560-YDR)
Preface
This is a Completion Report of the Second Highway Project for which
IDA Credit 560-YDR was approved on May 22, 1975, in the amount of
US$15.5 million. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1982, and was fully dis-
bursed on September 1, 1982. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
(KFAED) participated in the project with Kuwaiti Dinars (KD) 4.5 million
(US$15.3 million equivalent) under Loan KU50 which was approved on
June 18, 1975.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by Transportation
Division I of the Europe, Middle East and North Africa (EMENA) Projects
Department following a country visit in February 1983 and is based on
information provided by the Borrower, on correspondence with the Borrower
and an contents of IDA files.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
The draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments; however, none were
received.
.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, (Credit 560-YDR)
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Project Data
Appraisal     Actual or Current
Item                              Expectation         Estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)               31.8                 52.3
Overrun S                              -                + 64
Credit Amount (USS million)                                         15.5
Disbursed                             15.5                 15.5
Cancelled                              0                    0
Repaid                                 0                    0   2t
Outstanding                           15.5                 15.5
Date Physical Components Completed             03/31/79            03/31/83
Proportion Completed by Above Date (S)         70                   100
Tisie Overrun ()                               -                    128
Economic Return (S)                            15 to 18            22
Institutional Performance                      Good                Good
1/ Including additional costs due to partial realignment and surfacing type
change of project road and including residual value of construction, camp,
plant and equipment.
2/ First principal repayment due 8/15/85.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS Million)
FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81    FY82
Estimated                7.3     11.5    13.5    15.5    15.5    15.5    15.5
Actual                   3.6      6.8      9.7    11.7    13.4    14.1    15.5
Actual/Estimated (1)    49       59       72      75       86      91       100



- iii -
Other Prolect Data
Actual or
Estimated
Item              Original Plan         Revisions        Actual
First Mentioned in Files                                         11/20/72
Govt.'s application                                              02/07/73
Negotiations                                                     04/18/75
Board Approval                                                   05/22/75
Credit Agreement                                                 06/20/75
Effectiveness Date           09/18/75                            09/17/75
Closing Date                 03/31/80            12/31/81        09/01/82  1/
06/30/82
Borrower                         People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Executing Agency                Ministry of Construction to
Fiscal Year of Borrower          Up to 1974: April 1 to March 31
Up to 1975: April 1 to December 31
Since 1976: January 1 to December 31
Follow-up Project                Third Highway Project
Credit Number                 1144-YDR
Amount (SDR million)          10.3
Credit Agreement Date         07/27181
I/ Final disbursement date.
/  Formerly Ministry of Public Works
Mission Data
No. of     No. of                 Report
Item              Month/Year       Weeks       Persons   Man-weeks    Date
Identification                                                           12/72
Preparation                                                              01/74 1'
Appraisal              11/73             3          4           12       05/75
Appraisal (update)     10/74             3          2            6       05/75
TOTAL                                6          6           18
Supervision I          04/76             2          1           2        06/76
Supervision II         10/76             2          1           2        11/76
Supervision III        12/76             1          1           1        01/77
Supervision IV         07/77             2          2           4        08/77
Supervision V          02/78             2          2           4        02/78
Supervision VI         06/78             2          2           4        06/78
Supervision VII        12/78             2          1           2        12/78
Supervision VIII       03/79             2          2           4        03/79
Supervision IX         2-3/80            2          2           4        03/80
Supervisikn X          10/80             2          2           4        11/80
Supervision XI         02/81             2          1           2        03/81
Supervision XII        10/81             2          1           2        11/81
Supervision XIII       03/82             2          1           2        04/82
Completion             02/83             2          2           4        06/83
TOTAL                                27                     41
1/ Fcasibility Study and final engineering by consultants under
Credits 240-YDR and S-12-YDR.
Currency Exchange Rates
Name of Currency (abbreviation):                          Yemeni Dinar (YD)
Appraisal Year (1974) and thereafter                       US$1 = YDO.345



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCUATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, (Credit 560-YDR)
Hithlights
The main component of the Second Highway Project is the construc-
tion of 361 km of highway (59 km along the coast between Mukalla and As
Shihr, 257 km inland from Riyan to Al Qatn, and 45 km in the Wadi Radramawt
between Al Qatn and Saywun) whose final engineering design was undertaken in
the First Highway Project (Credit 240-YDR of April 21, 1971, and Engineering
Credit S-12 of November 17, 1972). Other project components are engineering
and economic studies for 300 km of highway between Naqabab and Beihan,
technical assistance to the Ministry of Construction (MOC) and refunding
Credit S-12 (PCR para. 12).
Since there was no major construction bidding experience in PDRY
after its independence in 1967, Government and IDA agreed to call for bids
for  the construction  component prior  to Credit Negotiations.  Only one
unresponsive bid (which was four times the estimate) was received.  The
project was then reappraised and the credit documentation changed to provide
for construction by a semi-autonomous construction unit of MOC using con-
struction equipment and materials supplied from the Credit under the manage-
ment of a construction management agency and with supervision by consultants
(PCR para. 13).
Slow mobilization, lower than expected production, long range
logistic problems and harsh construction conditions all contributed to a
four year delay in completion of construction and a cost overrun for the
civil works of 64X (PCR paras. 15 and 28).
Despite the increase in construetion costs, the project's economic
return is higher than estimated at appraisal (222 as compared to 15S) as
project benefits increased even faster due to rapid traffic growth (PCR
paras. 40 and 41).
The project has been successful in establishing the capabilities of
the MOC to undertake construction activities through its own construction
unit and has enhanced the professional skills within MOC by technical assis-
tance  and  overseas  training  fellowships.   The  ultimate,   successful
completion of the construction component, the 361 km long Al Mukalla-Wadi
Hadramawt road is a tribute to the determination and resourcefulness of the
mOC (PCR paras. 46 through 48).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, (Credit 560-YDR)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.      Af ter independence in 1967, a prime objective of Government policy
was to integrate the country socially, economically and administratively and
to reduce the economy's dependence on trade and service activities around
Aden port and refinery through developing the productive sectors, particu-
larly agriculture and fisheries.  The importance of an adequate transport
system, particularly roads, was recognized and during an IDA economic
mission in February/March 1970, the Government requested IDA's assistance to
rationalize development of its then sparse road system centered around Aden
and to strengthen road institutions, weakened by the exodus of expatriate
professionals and technicians, so that they could carry out their responsi-
bilities on a country-wide basis.
2.       This request  led  to the First Highway Project  (financed under
Credit 240-vDR. UNDP Grant 71/513 and Engineering Credit S12-YDR) which
provided technical assistance, road maintenance and workshop equipment,
urgently -eeded spare parts, feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
high priority roads.  The project was successfully completed in 1976.  Its
-institutional and operational impact was constrained by the shortage of
indigenous staff, but the project gave the Highway Authority its present
organizational structure. A main conclusion of the project Audit Report
(Report No. 1089 of March 27, 1978) was that institution building and
operaticnal improvement is a long term process that needs to be pursued over
several successive projects. The Second Highway Project which is subject of
this Completion Report was the logical continuation of the road development
and institutional effurts started under the first project.
3.       Preparation of the Se-ond Highway Project took place in the years
of extreme economic hardship and fiscal austerity that followed independence
and the closure of the Suez Canal. The project was appraised shortly after
the petroleum price increases of 1973/74 that led to international
uncertainty and rapid inflation and aggravated PDRY's economic plight to the
extent that she was included in the United Nations' list of most seriously
affected countries. PDRY only gradually benefited from the new wealth of
the Middle East through increasing remittances of Yemenis working in neigh-
boring oil-producing countries.  From the late 1970s onward, these remit-
tances fueled construction and other economic activities and engendered some
degree of general prosperity.  However,  concurrently shortages of skilled
laborers and technicians impeded the progress of development projects.
These events which could clearly not have becn foreseen at appraisal of the
Second Highway Project drastically altered basic parameters underlying the
estimates of its costs and benefits.



4.       Subsequent to the Second Highway Prcject IDA has made three other
Credits for transport development in PDRY:  a $3.2 million credit in 1976
for an Aden Port Rehabilitation Proiect, a SDR 10.3 million credit in 1981
for a Third Highway Project and a SDR 6.4 million credit in 1982 for a Roads
Flood Reconstruction Project.
5.       This report is based on:  (i) a review of IDA project supervision
mission reports and correspondence files; (ii) discussions with IDA staff
concerned with project appraisal and supervision; (iii) an assessment of the
project by Government after its completion; (iv) an independent evaluation
of the construction component prepared by two senior experts for the Govern-
ment; (v) nonstruction cost data prepared by the construction management
consultants; and (vi) recent traffic counts on the project road made by
Government.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
6.       Construction of a 600 km coastal highway to link Aden with Al
Mukalla, the country's second largest town, was started prior to indepen-
dence and later continued by force account with assistance of the People's
Republic of China. The feasibility studies included in IDA's First Highway
Project covered some 800 km of branch roads to connect remote agricultural
areas in the hinterland with the coastal highway. The studies were carried
out between September 1971 and December 1972 and demonstrated to the satis-
faction of the Government and IDA that construction of a road link between
Mukalla and the Wadi Hadramawt - a fertile and densely populated oasis in
the desert uplands some 300 km inland from the coast - had highest
priority. Detailed engineering of the road along an alignment recommended
in the feasibility study and including an extension of the coastal road to
As-Shihr which was required in connection with an IDA-supported Fisheries
Project was carried out by the same consultants between April 1973 and
January 1974.  The original appraisal of the Second Highway Project took
place in November 1973, when detailed engineering was substantially com-
plete. In view of the relatively large costs of the project and the limited
IDA resources available, Government asked the Kuwait Fund and they agreed in
principle to co-finance the Project.
7.       The appraisal mission found that the Consultants' construction cost
estimate was not firmly based since there was only very limited experience
with international bidding for civil works in PDRY since independence and
consequently uncertainty of the contracting industry's interest and of bid
prices. Accordingly it was agreed to call for bids through international
competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for Procurement to
determine the cost of construction before credit negotiations.  Bids were
opened in July 1974.  A Kenyan contractor judged to be unqualified L'to do
the work, submitted the only bid which at about $52 million was four times
higher than the Consultant's estimate and not acceptable. An investigation
by the consultants revealed that contractors failed to respond partly
because of their unfamiliarity with conditions in PDRY but mainly because of
the volume of work being contracted elsewhere in the region where conditions
were more familiar and continuity of work appeared reasonably assured.
I/  In order  to save  time,  post-qualifica:ion  procedures  were  applied.



- 3 -
8.       Following consultations between  PDRY's Ministry of  Construction
(then Ministry of Public Works) 1. the Kuwait Fund and IDA, it was
decided  to  crnstruct  the  Al  Mukalla-Wadi  Hadramawt   road  with  a
semi-autonomous construction unit of the MOC using construction equipment
and materials procured through the project, under the management of foreign
construction management consultants. A reputable agency with experience in
this field was asked to prepare a proposal. Further missions were made in
August and November 1974 to discuss alternative methods of project execution
and update  the appraisal  report.   The  management  consultants'  proposal
including a revised cost estimate which was economically justifiable was
received in February  1975.   Apart  from  road construction,  the original
appraisal had identified other project components to consolidate and expand
on the institution building efforts under the First Highway Project, namely
further technical assistance to MOC, additional road studies and road main-
tenance equipment and a transport sector study including technical assis-
tance for ports and civil aviation. These were reviewed in the light of the
limited financing resources for the project and availability of bilateral
assistance.  The components for the MOC were essentially retained in the
project; the transport sector study L" was deferred.
9.       Successful credit negotiations were held in Washington in April
1975. The Kuwait Fund and the management consultants were represented. The
management consultants' proposal was discussed in detail including the
possibility to purchase pre-owned large construction equipment items, as it
was believed that new ones could not be depreciated fully on the job. To
exhaust all possibilities for cost reductions in the design of the road.
provision was made in the project to employ the consultants who had done the
detailed engineering for construction supervision. The project cost agreed
at negotiations was $31.8 million and the financing plan anticipated an IDA
credit of $15.5 million (including $.53 million for refinancing 3f Engineer-
ing Credit S12-YDR) and a Kuwait Fund loan of $15.3 milliat eqquivalent
(Table 1). In view of Government's difficult financial position, the Kuwait
Fund and IDA agreed to finance both foreign and local costs of the project.
with the Government's contribution being limited to $1 million toward the
construction component. The disbursement plan provided for joint-financing
of the construction related project items and parallel financing for the
remaining items.
10.      The IDA Credit was approved by the Board on May 22. 1975.  During
*          the Board discussion the equipment procurement procedures were clarified and
some small amendments to the procurement schedule of the Credit Agreement
(deleting the references to advertising in European newspapers) were made to
ensure that all potential suppliers were aware of the bidding.  The credit
agreement was signed on June 20, 1975.
1/ Law No. 35 of 1975 merged the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) with the
Ministry of Communications and Law No. 30 of 1977 placed responsibility
for road activities under the present Ministry of Construction (MOC).
2/ A transport Sector Study is presently being undertaken with
UNDP-financing under the Roads Flood Reconstruction Project.



- 4 -
11.      There were three special conditions of effectiveneos; these were
that MOC (MPW) should (a) establish a special unit with powers, responuibil-
ities and staff acceptable to IDA for carrying out the civil works; (b)
employ competent managerial and technical experts to operate the Special
Unit referred to in (a) above; and (c) that Kuwait Fund Loan Agreoent had
or would concurrently with the IDA agreement become effective. The Govern-
ment by Republican Resolution No. 22 of May 26, 1975, set up the Construc-
tion Unit for the Al Mukalla-Wadi Hadramwt Road and an agreement was
concluded on June 7, 1975 with a construction managemnt agency. The IDA
Credit and the Kuwait Fund Loan became effective on September 17. 1975,
within the original effectiveness period.
II1I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COSTS
(a) Prolect Scone and Content
12.     With the geoeral objectives  of assisting  PDRY In  the rational
development of its main road system and of continuing institutional support
for the roads administration. the project provided for:
(i)    construction of about 358 km of 6. wide (SUST) paved road.
with 1. shoulders, from Al hukalla to Saywun via Al Riyan
and Al Qatn including a spur from Al R1yan to As-Shihr;-
(ii)   engineering     and      economic      studies      of      the
Naqabah-Nisab-Beihsn-Al-Ayn road (about 320 km));
Mlll)  technical  assistance  in  trrnport  planning   (about  4
man-years) and fellowsaips (about 8 man years) for staff of
the Ministry of Construction;
(iv)   purchaes of road maintenance equipment and spare parts; and
(v)    refinancing of Highway Engineering Credit S-12.
The Ministry of Construction was to carry out the project. Completion was
expected by March 31, 1979 and the original credit closing date was
March 31, 1980.
(b)  Implementation
(i) Road Construction
13.      Separate provision was made in the Credit to enable the purchase
soon after Credit effectiveness of needed construction equipment and princi-
pal construction materials.  An advance of US$1.4 million  (about 5S of
construction cost) was also to be made to the project unit to meet mobiliza-
tion costs covering construction of camps, workshops and facilitie, needed
prior to road construction commencing.  So that the remaining payments under
the project at any one time would relate to the actual amount of work then
completed, Government had agreed to pay the unit as a contractor - at
agreed unit rates (excluding the cost of equipment and materials) according



- 5 -
to the measurements of the work items performed and adjusted for repayment
of the advance.  As the project was not considered of sufficient duration
(39 mo.) to depreciate fully the larger, more expensive equipment items the
purchase of some used equipment was proposed. Equipment with residual life
at the end of construction was planned to be used for road maintenance
tasks. Local personnel trained on the project was to be absorbed into MPW's
road construction and maintenance organizations; after completion of the
road, construction camps were to be used as road maintenance camps and
depots.
14.      The appraisal concept oZ procurement of some items of second hand,
reconditioned equipment by limited competitive bidding from known sources of
supply was not implemented, since it would have resulted in a regional
limitation of purchases.  The management consultant evaluated the various
bids for construction equipment and materials as they were received,
obtained approvals for awards of contract from IDA, KFAED and MOC and placed
orders using letter of credit facilities set up through the National Bank of
Yemen. For details of procurement of main items of construction equipment,
please see Table 2.
15.      The mobilization period for civil works was longer than expected at
credit negotiations because of delays related to the force account/management
method of construction. After the ntanagement agreement was signed, staff
had to be recruited and procurement of construction equipment and materials
be initiated; base camps, workshops and housing at the site had to be
erected; operational and financial procedures had to be established between
the construction unit, the MOC and the Management Agency. All these time
consuming processes delayed the start of actual construction to February
1976, (cf late 1975).  Even then, on-site mobilization had not been fully
achieved and it was not until much later (during mid-1978) that the con-
struction unit was operating close to its practical  capacity.   Numerous
problems arose-the logistics of moving equipment and materials 630 km to
Riyan (the base camp) from Aden, harsh construction conditions (particularly
the extreme  scarcity of water), lower-than-expected output rates, later
interruptions caused by moves of crushing plants and work camps to remote
inland sites nearer and in the Wadi Hadramawt (Saywun is 970 km from Aden).
All these problems contributed to an extension of the construction period
from 39 months  (at appraisal) to 89 months (actual).   Before the reader
forms a hurried conclusion that everything that could, went wrong, he should
ponder on the achievement by the MOC and its construction unit of finishing
at a reasonable cost 361 km of important road in difficult terrain, in spite
of complete disinterest by contractors with overseas capacity for such high-
way construction works, thus achieving much-needed improved access between
Aden and the Wadi Hadramawt. Equally, if not more important, the MOC exs-
panded its experience and established its self-confidence in its ability to
undertake large highway projects, which, since overseas contractors remain
unattracted to highway construction in PDRY, prompted MOC to set up similar
construction units for Aden-Taiz, Shuqra-Ahwar and lastly, under the current
Third iiighway Project for Naqabah-Ataq-Nisab.
16.      The mainbase camp and workshops was set up at Riyan,  some 25 km
east of Al Mukalla.   Construction work began in February 1976 proceeding



- 6 -
eastwards from a point just outside Al Mukalla, leaving a short section
within Al Mukalla pending reinstallation of town water services and
drainage. When construction reached the junction at Riyan, the main work
effort was concentrated on the 257 km section from Riyan towards Al Qatn (in
the Wadi Hadramawt) with secondary consideration being directed to the 36 km
section along  the Coast between Riyan  and As  Shihr.   The  first  major
obstacle reached was the steep ascent of the Abdulla Gharib escarpment
(approximately 58 km from Riyan) where the alignment ascends from the
coastal plain (about 200 meters above sea level) to about 1200 meters above
sea level in a distance of about 10 kilometers. A local design realignment
was carried out to ease some the gradients in the original design, but one
short section of 141 could not be avoided since any reduction in gradient
would have involved more extremely heavy earthworks, including very costly
rack excavation. As it was, the heavy earthworks at the Abdulla Gharib
escarpment were completed between March and December 1978; bituminous pene-
tration macadam (PENMAC) surfacing on the escarpment was completed by
September 1979.   While work continued on  the Abdulla Gharib escarpment,
other construction crews proceeded with wurae on the high plateau beyond the
escarpment and progressed towards the Wadi Hadramawt.  By September 1979,
when the Abdulla Gharib had been paved, earthworks had reached 150 km from
Riyan and PENMAC surfacing to 69 km.
17.      Even before the Abdulla Gharib escarpment section had been fully
completed, the plan of construction was amended so that earthworks and
drainage works began in June 1979 on the Wadi Al Ayn construction between
km 190 and km 220 from Riyan and in the Wadi Hadramawt itself (km 270-345).
Formation widths were prepared ahead of the base course and PENMAC sections
which continued progressively from km 150. In this manner, delays for base
course and PENMAC sections were avoided as prepared formation was available
ahead of the pavement crews.
18.      By June 30, 1982, when the Credit was closed, only 14 km of earth-
works and 43 km of PENMAC  remained to be completed.  The corresponding
figures on September 30, 1982, were 3 km and 31 km respectively. The road
was officially inaugurated on March 19, 1983. The construction works,
including  repairs  to   sections   damaged  during   the  March 1982  and
February 1983 floods are being finalized as part of maintenance.
19.      During construction, design changes were made.  In the feasibility
study, three possible  alignments  were  studied-the western,  central and
eastern-between km 179 and km 196 and the Wadi Hadramawt and che central
route selected, being shorter and at that time considered less costly-than
the other two alternatives.  However,  in April 1977, the MOC proposed a
reconsideration of the Western alignment as, bearing in mind their previous
experience of the ascent of the Abdulla Gharib escarpment, they were
hesitant about the problems that might be encountered on the steep descent
of the southern side of the Wadi Hadramawt to Al Qatn and the known diffi-
culties of construction over silty soils on a long section of the Al Qatn
escarpment.   The  Management  Consultant,  under a supplemental  agreement,
undertook the western route realignment survey which snowed that, despite
the extra length of 10 km, the estimated construction costs would be lower



- 7 -
than the central alignment since the descent down the Wadi Al Ayn was much
less steep than the Al Qatn escarpment and it avoided the silty soil
section. Added to the cost advantage is the important economic aspect that
the western alignment serves a significantly greater population in the Wadi
Al Ayn than the central alignment across the barren plateau.
20.      At the design stage, two alternative road surfaces were considered,
oil stabilized gravel and single bituminous surface treatment (SBST).  The
latter surface was selected for its greater durability and lower maintenance
costs. Later, in August 1977 during construction, the SBST was changed to
7.5 cm of PENMAC because of the easier and quicker construction technique
for PENMAC and because of the reduction in crushing efforts to produce the
larger chippings needed for PENMAC. Because of the greater PENMAC thickness
over that of SBST, the unit rate for PENMAC was almost three times that of
SBST, but there were compensatory savings in the base course construction by
replacing the original crusher-run base course with a thinner layer of
screened wadi gravels.   The PENMAC also has an advantage in producing a
better structural design for the pavement. In the light of rapid traffic
increases observed during construction, pavement width was widened from 6m
to 7m and shoulder width from lm to 1.5m between Mukalla and As-Shihr along
the coast and between Al Qatn and Saywun in the Wadi Hadramawt. Also, the
number and length of drainage pipes and box culverts were increased as a
result of floods experienced in 1977 and subsequent years.
21.      Under the original concept of the construction unit, the Management
Consultants' team which comprised a Project Manager, a Deputy Project
Manager and up to 18 experts, had complete control of the project, including
its managements execution and supervision.  The design  consultants  were
employed to carry out construction supervision (quality and cost control and
design changes as necessary), but their team was initially integrated with
the management  team  and made  responsible to the project manager.   This
arrangement led to conflicts between the two teams. Eventually the super-
vision team was required to report to the Yemeni Project coordinator (who
was the counterpart of the Project Manager) and to the MOC.
(ii) Engineering and Economic Studies
22.      Studies   to   investigate   the   economic   viability   of   the
Naqabah-As Said-Ataq-Nisab-Beihan-Al Ayn road by section were carried out by
i         consultants.  The section from Naqabah to Nisab with a spur to As Said was
included in the Third Highway Project (Credit 1144-YDR), which followed
Credit 560-YDR.
23.      The agreement between the MOC and the consultants was signed on
December 12, 1976, and work began in the field in April 1977 on the first
phase of evaluation, transport analysis and preliminary engineering of
alternative alignments. A review of the first phase, which was completed in
January 1978, was undertaken by the MOC, IDA and the consultants and con-
cluded that construction of the Naqabah-Ataqc-Nisab road with a spur to As
Said,  was  technically  feasible  and  economically  justified.   Detailed
engineering of these sections began in January 1978 and was completed in



- 8 -
December 1978. in July 1978, at the request of the Government, and to take
advantage of competitive design rates, IDA agreed to the detailed engineer-
ing being continued to Beihan, with the omission of the short epur to Al Ayn
because of its severe alignment. The detailed engineering to Beihan was
completed by March 1979.  The Consultants' services were generally satis-
factory although they tended to use design standards which were too high for
conditions in PDRY and too costly. Largely as a result of IDA intervention,
including a mission to the Consultants' head office, the design for
Naqabah-Nisab section was substantially revised before construction could
start.  Also,  the construction unit building  this  road claims  that the
design consultants seriously underestimated earthwork quantities.
(iii) Technical Assistance and Fellowships
24.     To  continue  the  institution-building efforts  started under  the
First Highway Project and to complement technical assistance available from
bilateral sources, the project included two transport economists for a total
of four man-years to concentrate on the economic aspects of the highway
sector. During project implementation, IDA agreed that part of the manpower
allocation be used for a highway engineer to help with a review of existing
legislation on motor vehicle weights and dimensions, with the development of
highway design standards and the preparation of specifications for road
works. IDA agreed that this assistance be secured through a consulting firm
rather than direct recruitment of individual experts.
25.      Based on documentation agredwiS__h-I-iDA, Government concluded a
contract with a consulting firm on February 26, 1977 for the provision of
the technical assistance services over an 18 month period.  The contract
nominated a highway engineer and two transport planners, one of whom was
rejected by IDA because of lack of professional experience and had to be
replaced. These three experts were to cover about half of the study tasks.
For the remainder of the study tasks, additional experts were to be
recruited in the course of the contract.  IDA stated its preference that all
study tasks, if possible, be carried out by the team posted but had to agree
to further changes after the highway engineer resigned. Eventually a team
consisting of two highway engineers, two transport engineers and two trans-
port economists was provided. The reports which the consultants initially
produced were of disappointing quality and, after substantial comments by
Government and IDA, they were completely rewritten in the consultant's home
office.   Reports on the following subjects were issued in 1980:
(a)    investment  procedures,  transport  policies  and  economic
objectives;
(b)    coordination between different transport modes;
(c)    transport services and operations;
(d)    general transport rates;
(e)    passenger and freight rates for road transport;
(f)    priority ranking of road projects;
(g)    the feasibility of the Naqabah-Al Ayn road;
(h)    execution and supervision of road works;
(i)    highway design manual;
(j)    highway maintenance manual;
(k)    specifications for road works and bridges;
(1)    traffic survey manual; and
(m)    vehicle weights and dimensions.



-9-
The reports dealing with transport policy matters (reports (a) to Ce) above)
appear to have had little impact on Government decisions and are largely
outdated by now. Reports (f) and (g) record the assistance provided to MOC
in the preparation of the Second Five-Year Development Plan and in the
supervision of the Engineering and Economic Studies under the Project. The
reports on engineering topics (reports (h) to (1) are still relevant refer-
ence documents for MOC staff and report (m) contributed to Governmental
action on a credit covenant.
26.      Ten overseas fellowships for a total of 8 man-years were envisaged
at credit negotiations in various subjects pertinent to the needs of MOC: 4
*         in transport economics and project evaluation, 3 in highway administration
and engineering, and 3 in cost accounting and systems control. Actual award
of fellowships financed from credit resources in the respective fields were
one, six and one, adding up to 6.75 man-years. As shown in Table 4, six of
the eight fellcu-ships were placed in the United Kingdom and two in Germany
between 1977 and 1980. While some of the trainees have left the Ministry,
most have had successful careers and now occupy  senior positions.   The
training program is still continuing with financing from the Arab Fund and
*         IDA's Third Highway project.
Civ) Purchase of Road Maintenance Equipment
27.      Provision was made in the project for the purchase of road mainte-
nance equipment (and related spare parts) to meet replacemment needsand to
round off MOC's maintenance fleet.  With financing from the Kuwait Fund
loan, the following items were bought:
Ci)   1 Millars 1240 M Asphalt Plant
(ii)   2 Komatsu D755-2 Loaders
Ciii)   3 Komatsu GD37-64 Motor Graders
Civ)   2 Parker 10 NT Concrete Mixers
Cv)   2 Parker Speadex Mode 7 TH Concrete Mixers
*vi)   6 Toyota 6-ton Tipper Trucks
(c) Time and Cost Overruns
28.      The major delay occurred in the construction period for the Al
Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt road with the appraisal estimate of 39 months extend-
*          ing by 50 months to 89 months.  At the original target date for completion,
about 40Z of the civil works had been completed. The original construction
schedule was over-optimistic in predicting 358 km of bitumenized road being
constructed in 39 months (or an average of about 9 km of completed road per
month). Retarding factors which were not taken into account sufficiently
were slow mobilization; logistical problems of supplying, equipping and
operating a construction unit over 600-970 km away from the supply base of
Aden; the scarcity of skilled operators and mechanics which was exacerbated
in the late 1970's by worker migration to neighboring oil-producing
countries; lower-than-planned physical outputs and the time lost due to
public holidays. It would have been difficult to foresee all these delays
at appraisal and at negotiations because this was the first large project to
be undertaken by MOC after independence and the first to be undertaken by an



- 10 -
externally managed semi-autonomous construction unit. There were no basic
data available regarding practical outputs for such a major work. Neverthe-
less, it would have been prudent to apply a significant safety factor to
cover the many imponderables. Delays in the other credit components were
minor. Please refer to the Chart which contrasts planned and actual dis-
bursements and implementation.
29.      Overall, actual  project  costs exceeded the appraisal estimates,
including all contingencies, by $20.5 million or 64Z (Table 5). The direct
costs of construction (excluding equipment depreciation and permanent
materials) were $14.8 million or 84% higher, reflecting price and quantity
increases and the longer construction period.L'  The costs of construction
equipment and materials were $4.8 million or 422 more, again due to price
and quantity increases and, to some extent to the switch from second-hand to
new equipment. The economic and engineering studies for the Naqabah-Nisab
road cost more than double (222X) as the Consultants' rates were higher than
anticipated and the amount of work was increased by extending the detailed
engineering to the whole road. Technical assistance and road maintenance
equipment stayed within the appraisal limits but for the former the number
of mpn-months was somewhat reduced.
30.      The main reasons for the civil works cost overrun were soaring
domestic and international prices, in particular for labor and fuel, which
were impossible to assess accurately at credit negotiations.  Analysis of
the management consultants' cost data -' and other information suggests
the following price changes over the construction period:
I of
Final Cost             1983 Prices as
Cost Component       in 1983 Prices        Z of 1975 Prices
Labor                  32.5                     353
Fuel                    9.7                     259
Management             15.7                     180
Plant                  22.0                     142 *
Materials              20.1                     168
Total       100.0        Average      192
*  Based on unit value index of manufactured exports (MUV index)
Average annual increases in construction costs due to price changes are
estimated as follows:
1976      1977      1978       1979      1980       1981      1982       1983
4.1%      1.0%       19.0%     14.4%      23.1X     1.7%      5.0%       2.1%
1/  These are the actual cost of the project to the Government.  The
construction unit's billings on which the Kuwait Fund's and IDA's
disbursements were based, did not always reflect costs as unit rate
adjustments lagged behind price increases. The first rate adjustment
was made in 1980.



- 11 -
As shown below, actual price increases (of $15.36 million) were about 3.5
times  the  price  contingencies  (of  $4.34 million)  included  in  the SAR
construction cost estimate and accounted for about 60X of the cost overrun
(of $25.41 million); physical increases (of $10.05 million) both in terms of
additional  work  carried  out  and  additional  inputs  required  due  to
lower-than-expected productivity and not required such as $1.66 million
worth of spare parts left over, were more than 7 times the physical con-
tingency provision (of $1.39 million) but were responsible for only 40Z of
the overrun.
Expected Cost Increases       Actual Cost Increases
Base
Cost    Price   Physical  Total      Price    Physical  Total
--              Us$ Million-
Civil Works   13.92   2.44      1.39      3.83                          18.67
Construction
Equipment &
Materials      9.50   1.90       -        1.90                           6.73
Total      23.42   4.34      1.39     5.73       15.36     10.05    25.41
31.      Government provided all the additional resources needed to complete
the project: about US$15.2 million equivalent in local currency and US$5.3
million equivalent in foreign exchange.
IV. COVENANTS
32.      Apart from covenants regarding the establishment,  the management
and the operation of the special Construction Unit which all were met in a
timely fashion (para. 11) and thereafter maintained satisfactorily, the
Development Credit Agreement included, as a follow-up to recommendations
made by the technical assistance consultants under the First Highway
Project, assurances concerning: (i) the allocation of resources to mainte-
nance of the national highway system; (ii) the need for appropriate legisla-
tion governing the weights and dimensions of vehicles using the system; and
(iii) the need to introduce appropriate highway design standards.
33.      Annual budget allocations for road maintenance  (item (i) above)
have generally been adequate for the traffic needs and type of construction
applied in PDRY in relation to total resources. However, with the expan-
sion of the network, the increasing age of some sections and growing
traffic, particularly trucks, there is now a need for a more systematic
approach to road maintenance. Following a Government request at the negoti-
ations of the Third Highway Project, Credit 1144-YDR, an appropriate
maintenance program is under preparation for possible financing under a
Fourth Highway Project. Action on items (ii) and (iii) was expected within
two years by mid 1977 and was delayed as the relevant preparatory studies
were initially not provided for in the project. Upon Government's request,



- 12 -
they were later included in the tasks of the technical assistance consul-
tants (para. 24).   unfortunately,  the Consultants'  first outputs did not
lend themselves to the Governmental action required (para. 25).  Based on
the Consultants' revised reports and additional work done by the Ministry of
Construction, Government amended legislation in 1980, increasing the axle
loading limit from 8.5 tons to 13 tons. The Design Standards recommended by
the Consultants are satisfactory and are being used in the Ministry's road
design work.
34.      Lastly, at credit negotiations, an understanding was reached that
before June 30, 1977, the authorities would introduce appropriate arrange-
ments for periodic revision of transport rates to keep them in line with
transport costs.   At  the beginning  of  the project,  the  road  transport
industry was reorganized by the establishment of a state-owned land trans-
port corporation responsible for supplying and controlling all public
transport of goods and passengers in the country. The Corporation's rates
and fares which have to be approved by Government and aim, amongst other
considerations, at covering the cost of its operations, have been revised
periodically. The technical assistance consultants and more recently the
Transport Sector Study made recommendations on ways to reduce the Corpora-
tion's costs and to improve the cost accounting system as a basis for rate
setting in the future.
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
35.      In the absence of interest by international contractors to work in
PDRY, the primary project objective was to develop domestic construction
capacities to enable the country to implement an important and large road
investment. While this objective has been achieved in that the project
successfully produced a workable model for organizing road works, which has
been replicated in other projects in PDRY and greatly improved managerial
and technical skills in the Ministry of Construction, there were also valu-
able lessons to be learnt. The main lessons which have been incorporated in
IDA's Third Highway Project are the needs:
(i)    for a more judicious approach to estimating project inputs,
costs and duration of construction;
(ii)    for a more elaborate and up-to-date cost accounting system to
ensure that unit rates remain cost-related,  particularly at
times of rapid inflation;
(iii)    for  a  good  inventory  management  system  for  construction
materials and spare parts to avoid redundancies;
(iv)    to appoint an  indigenous manager of  the construction unit
(with  experienced  expatriate  engineers  advising  him)  to
improve the effectiveness of management;
(v)    to leave the responsibility for construction supervision with
the Ministry of Construction (strengthened as necessary) to
avoid dilution of cost and quality control efforts; and



- 13 --
(vi)    to tackle the productivity problem through a formal training
program for construction staff.
36.      The other project objective of continuing institutional support for
the roads administration through technical assistance and training was also
successful. The widening of the scope of the technical assistance to cover
in addition to transport planning also engineering subjects appears reason-
able in retrospect.  The Consultants gave useful assistance in the MOC's
day-to-day work such as the supervision of the project's feasibility and
engineering studies and the preparation of the Second vive-Year Development
Plan and eventually delivered acceptable reports which contributed to
improvements in road policy and planning practices.  The fellowship training
under the project helped strengthen the Ministry's management and technical
cadres.   Additional technical assistance and  training  is being  provided
under the Third Highway Project.
VI. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
37.      At  appraisal,  economic  benefits  were  quantified  only  for  the
project's civil works component which accounted for 93S of the estimated
total cost; other components were considered justified in the light of the
important basic purposes they served.
38.      The benefits quantified for the constructioa Mukalla-Riyan-Saywun
road and the extension of the coastal road to Ash Shihr were: (i) savings in
vehicle operating costs to local traffic and long distance traffic between
the Wadi Hadramawt and the coastal area, taking into account the traffic
generating impact of the proposed improvements; and (ii) the avoidance of
fish-' spoilage during transport to the Wadi  Hadramawt.   Additional but
unquantified benefits considered, included savings in journey times, reduc-
tions in the numbers of accidents, transport cost savings from shifts to
larger and more efficient vehicles.
39.      Assuming start of  construction in 1975 and completion in early
1979, the appraisal report estimated an overall rate of return of 151 and a
first ycar rcturn of 12X.  The returns on individual road sections were
estimated to range between 13X and 261.
40.      On project completion, based on the final construcLion costs (but
excluding the residual value of plant, equipment and spare parts) and
traffic counted in 19R3, the reevaluation which was carried out in 1983
prices, shows an overall rate of return of 221 with 181 in the first year,
both substantially higher  than estimated at appraisal.   The  reestimated
rates of return for individual road section vary from 201 to 56S (Tables 9
and 10).
41.      The re-estimated rates of return are higher as increases in project
costs are outweighed by increases in benefits due to more rapid traffic
I/ Fish used to be a major source of protein in the area.



- 14 -
growth  than  expected.   Construction  costs  in real terms, are about 261
higher than the appraisal estimates (including physical contingencies) and
the construction period to final completion is about 128S longer. However,
traffic volumes found on the road in 1983 are between 3 to 4.5 times those
forecast  for  the 1979 opening year  (Table 6).  The analysis of traffic
growth (in Table 7) suggests average annual growth rates of 14Z to 22%
between 1974 and 1983, compared with rates of 4.8Z to 8.61 expected between
1974 and 1979. Local traffic in the Wadi Hadramawt increased particularly
fast and passenger traffic increased more than trucks.
42.      The appraisal assessment of traffic growth was based on past trends
and on planned economic development in the Wadi Hadramawt and the coastal
area,  including  ongoing  and  scheduled  IDA  projects  in  agriculture,
fisheries, power and education. Most of these projects have been imple-
mented, although their outputs in some cases have been affected by the
shortages and high cost of labor and by other constraints. The unexpectedly
steep increase in traffic on the project road can mostly be attributed to
increases in  personal  incomes brought  about by  remittances  of  Yemenis
working abroad and entailing a greater propensity to travel and increased
demands both for consumption and durable goods.
43.      In the reevaluation, benefits were calculated using the vehicle
operating cost estimates made at appraisal, duly updated to 1983 prices
(Table 8), and data on lengths and conditions of existing roads from the
feasibility studies. For long, distance traffic, vehicle operation costs are
estimated to have been reduced by 251 to 301 and for local traffic by 36 to
391 (cobble stone roads) and 571 to 641 (earth tracks).-'  The appraisal
reports traffic growth rates over the assumed 20-year economic life of the
road have been applied: for through traffic 91 p.a. for the first 10 years
and 81 p.a. thereafter; for local traffic in the Wadi Hadramawt 81 p.a. and
71 p.a. and for local traffic along the coast 61 p.a. and 51 p.a. Generated
traffic was calculated on the same basis as at appraisal, assuming price
elasticities of respectively 1.5 for passenger traffic and unity for freighL.
44.      In the re-evaluation, it has not been possible to re-estimate the
benefits from reduced spoilage of fresh fish valued at appraisal at
YD 175,000. However, in retrospect this figure appears to only inadequately
measure the benefits associated with a better dietary balance for the Wadi
population made possible by the road as refrigerator trucks which because of
their weight could not operate on the unimproved tracks, now bring in fish,
meat and other protein products.
1/ The savings for long distance traffic are relatively smaller than for
local traffic, since travel via the new road involves longer trip
lengths for part of this traffic.



- 15 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS
45.      At the appraisal of the project IDA and Kuwait Fund showed good
professional judgement, flexibility and ingenuity to devise an alternative
construction method which was compatible with the policy principle of ensur-
ing economy and efficiency in the use of resources, after conventional ICB
yielded no results. This is particularly true if one realizes how easy it
would have been to defer the project in the difficult economic and financial
climate prevailing at the time. The IDA supervision effort was substantial
both in the field where on average two missions per year were carried out
and at home office where several hundred equipment and material contracts
needed to be reviewed and procureL-nt decisions be coordinated with the
Kuwait Fund. Supervision was productive and done with understanding and
responsiveness   to PDRY's special needs.  Staff continuity on the project
over several years helped in this respect.
46.      The performance of  the Borrower and  its executing agency,  the
Ministry of Construction, has been good. Considering the state of develop-
ment of the country and the limited resources available, the Borrower has
made commendable efforts to overcome the many difficulties, including the
mobilization of a large amount of additional financing needed and to bring
the project to completion eventually.
47.      The project provided  the Ministry of Construction with greatly
increased construction capabilities and improved managerial and technical
talent, and the country with an important road, linking some 360,000 people
in the Wadi Hadramawt with the coastal area and the rest of PDRY.
48.      The basic model of a governmental special construction unit proved
successful as the institutional, training and physical expectations were
achieved. The lessons learnt (para. 35) were incorporated in IDA's Third
Highway Project under which a similar unit won the construction contract in
international  competitive  bidding  and  is  performing  very  well.   While
significant time and cost overruns (paras. 28 to 30) occurred, the final
cost of the road of about US$165,000 per km in 1983 prices compares well
with  recent  contract  experience  in  the  middle  eastern  region.   The
reestimated rate of return on the investment is higher (22S vs. 15%) as the
increases in construction costs were out weighed by increases in benefits
due to more rapid traffic growth than expected (para. 41).
49.      The  project's  study  component  satisfactorily  prepared  the  main
element of the Third Highway Project (para. 23). The technical assistance
componentr hclpcd the MOC with its daily responsibilities and contributed to
improvements of road policy and planning practices (para. 25 and 36); and
the training component enhanced managerial and technical skills in MOC
(paras. 26 and 36). Both the technical assistance and the training efforts
are being continued under the ongoing Third Project.



- 16 -
Table 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, Credit 560-YDR
Project Financing Plan
Appraisal                           Actual
Local      Foreign       Total      Local       Foreign      Total
------ US$ Million Equivalent
Project Cost        11.0       20.8          31.8       16.2        36.1         52.3
Source of Finance
IDA              5.1        10.4          15.5       -           15.5         15.5
Kuwait Fund      4.9        10.4          15.3         -         15.3         15.3
Government        1.0         -            1.0       16.2         5.3         21.5
Use of Credit Proceeds
Original         Revised            Final
Category            Description         Allocation        Allocation       Disbursement
----       -Us$ millio
1        Construction Al Mukalla-Saywun
(a)      Civil Works                     7.700            7.700             7.851
(b)      Engineering Services            0.160            0.225             0.214
2        Construction Equipment and
Materials                     5.370            5.370             5.186
3        Engineering and Economic
Studies                       0.550            1.300             1.334
4        TA to MPW including
fellowships                   0.440            0.377            0.386
5        Refunding First Credit S-12    0.530             0.528             0.528
6        Unallocated                     0.750            0                 0
TOTAL                15.500           15.500           15.500



- 17 -                              Table 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HICHWAY PROJECT, (Credit 560-YDR)
Construction Equipment Procurement
Main Items)
Lowest
Item            Description                   Evaluated Bid       Dote         Supplier
(Ust)
1     3X14 YC Notorized Scrapers              398,790          08/75      Blackwood Hodge
2     BX Crawler Tractors                     706,320          07/75      Komatsu
3     5X Rippers for Item 2                    60,025          11/75      Komatsu
4     7X Crawler Tractors                     343,350          07/75      Komatsu
5     3X Multi Shank Rippers for Itet 4        13.419          11/75     Komatsu
6     7X Graders                              228,900          07/75      Komatsu
7     4X Crawler Loaders, 1-1/2 YC            126,600          08/75      Komatsu
8     4X Wheeled Loaders, 2-1/2 YC            160,360          n9/75      JCB
8     2X Wheeled Loaders, 3YC                 196,891          06/77      Komatsu
8     2X Wheeled Loaders, 3YC                 124,316          02/77    KIonatsu
9     3X Pneumatic Rollers, 20t                67,362          07/75      Hunermund,
10    1I Tamping Roller, Ot                     15,260          07/75      Hyster
11     2X Vibrating Roller, 85                  52,320          07/75      Bomag
12     2X Self-propelled Vib. Roller, it        69,760          07/75      Bomag
12     2X Self-propelled Vib. Roller, 7t        66,599          06/77      Stothert 6 Pitt
14     3X Smooth Rollers, 8/lOt                 65,400          07/75      Wallis & Steevens
15     60X 7/8 YC Truck.                       960,486          09/75      Nissan
15     lOX 12 ton Dump Trucks                  280,617          06/77      Nissan
16     15X 10 ton Flat Trucks                  226,200          09/75      Nissan
171M  4X 2000 Imp. gall. Fuel Tankers          85,456          07/75      Nissan
19     21X 2000 Imp. gall. Water Tankers    402,864             07/75      Nissan
20     IX Lubrication Truck                     21,174          12/75      Bedford
21     IX Workshop Trailer                       9,876          01/76      Scottorn
22     IOX 4WD vehicles                         71,725          10/75      Toyota
23     lOX Pickups                              49,757          10/75      Toyota
25     4X 2-ton concrete dumpers                17,440          07/75      Benford
25     IX 2-ton concrete dumpers                 4,853          06/77      Benford
26     6X Compressors 350 cfm                   69,223          10/75      Atlas Copco
26     4X Compressors 250 cfm                   34,703          10/75      Compair
27     2X 1000 gRal-  Bitumen Distributor       20,507          10/75      Phoenix
27     2X 1000 gall Bitumen Distributor         21,701          06/77      Grant Calloway
28     2X Bitumen Storage Heaters               19,450          10/75      Vauxhall
28     2X Bitumen Storage Heaters               16,772          10/75      Grant Calloway
28     2X Bitumen Storage Heaters               32,334          06/77      Phoenix
29     2X 14/10 Concrete Mixers                 14,824          07/75      Millar
30     2X 10/7 Concrete Mixers                   8,720          07/75      Hillar
31     6X Water Pumps                            8,412          10/75      Godwin
32     2X Cenerators, 125 KVA                   33,916          10/75      Ringose
33     2X Cenerators, 75 KVA                    19,331          10/75      Ringrose
34     IX Fork Lift Truck                       14,091          12/75      Lancer
35     IX Recovery Vehicle                       9,630          12/75      Vass
36     IX Lowloader, 35 tons                    65,400          07/75      Nissan
37     IX Mobile Crane, 12/15 tons              46,858          11/75      Thos. Smith
39     IX Wheeled Excavator, IYC                17,960          09/75      JCB
40     4X Rock Breaker Drills                   22,907          11/75      Compair
41     1X Crushing Plant. 100 TPH              240,512          11/75      Brown Lennox
42     IX Mobile Screening Plant                72,101          10/75      N.K. Stone
43     2X 75hp Agric. Tractors                  14,280          08/75      Int. Harvester
44     2X Water Tanks, 5000 gallons              8,502          10/75      Yemen Nat. Oil
45     4X Fuel Tanks, 3000 gallons              13,962          11/75      Yemen Nat. Oil
48     1X Priary Crusher                       14,738           11/76      Parker
5,796,954



- 18 -
TABLE 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, (Credit 560-YDR)
Diubur.ewmnta 
Category 3 - Engineering and Economic Studies
WA      Invoice       Disburseuent         Foreign Expenditures                 Local Expenditurps
Date           Data             D                 USs                DD            USs
Equivalent                      Equivalent
22      12/12/76        03/09/77      219,698.03          91,927.71
23      12/12/76        03/17/77                                            2.310.000       6,734.b9
25      02/26/77        04/13/77      181,412.27          76,454.94
26      12/12/76        05/03/77                                            7,290.000      21,253.6i
29      05/10/77        06/28/77      253,908.00         108,045.96
34      06/06/77        08/29/77      141,983.00          61,454.16
37      07/07/77        08/30/77                                            1,135.343       3,310.0.
42      08/10/77        11/12/77      123,533.00          53,717.36
52      09/12/77        12/22/77      193,893.00          90,990.62
53      11/09/77        02/16/78      104,157.00          50,087.52
61      01/08/78        03/16/78                                              972.661       2,835.75
62      01/02/78        03/16/78      138,319.00          b7,459.52
64 1/   01/23/78        03/23/78                                            6.180.000      18.107.49
69        n/a           05/17/78       61,233.00          25,920.32
83      May 1978        09/07/78                                            2.717.415       7,922.49
84        n/a           09/08/78      217,586.00         109,369.02
88        n/A           11/13/78      230,640.00         122,038.98
95      07/28/78        12/14/78                                            4,400.000      12.827.99
96      07/19/78        12/15178      266,918.89         140,199.73
116        n/a           12/28/79      223,018.00         129,435.87
117        n/a           02/11/80        7,929.85           4,560.01
129        n/a           08/08/80       97,000.00          54,353.92
138        n/J           02/05/81       10,000.00           4,713.20
139        n/fi          02/20/81      140,851.41 2/       67,502.83
2,612,350.45       1,261,231.67        25,005.419      72.902.09
72,902.09
TOTAL          1.334,133.76
1/ Advance Payment for Phase 2 - Detailed Engineering
2/ DM equivalent of Australian 857.852.96



a                             - I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEHEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, Credit 560-YDR
Training Fellowships
-------------- I H P L E H E N T A T I O N ------------
Extra Charges
Field                       ----- DISTRIBUTION BY YEAR -------                                                                                and Extensions
of             Duration    1977       1978     1979      1980            Fellow             Date of       Place of Study/           Cost    Duration   Cost
Assiotance          Months    Months   Months   Months   Months                                  Start           TraininR                Us$      Months      US$
Highway Design         12          3          9        -         -    Waheeb Mahfood Shamsan       10/77   Birmingham University, UK    7,228         -          506
Transport Economic
and Project Eval.      9          -          2        7         -    Hussein A. Aziz Hayel        11/78   Dorsch Consult, Germany        10,792      6        5,800
Administration           9         -          9        -         -    A. Rehman Hassan Al Basri  01/78   Dorsch Consult, Germany           4,841      -          -
Survey and Design       9          3          6        -         -    Abdulla Ali Noman            10/77   Clwyd C.C. North Wales, UK   5,234         1        1,450
Traffic Analysis        9          -         -         9         -    Mahmood Mahfood              05/80   UK via British Council         19,831      -          -
Quarry Management       9          -         -         -         9    Mohammed Bin Moh. Al Haj   11/79   UK via British Council           12,437      3        4,479
materials               12         3          9        -         -    Taleb Jaffer Bin Shamlan   10/77   Birmingham University, UK    7,684           -          506
Cost Accounting
and Control          12          2         10        -         -    A. Asia A. Musaibli          11/77   West Sussex C.C., UK            5.277      3        1.020
73,324             13,761



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND PIGHWAY PROJECT, Credit 560-YDR
Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs
(US$ million equivalent)
ACTUAL COST                               APPRAtSAL ESTIMATE OF COST                ACTUAL COST AS I OF
Project                                                          Contract                                            APPRAISAL           CONlRACT
Component                    Local    Foreign       Total         Amount       Local    Foreign       Total           ESTIMATE             ANSUWT
-ti6-        _r2)                                  (3)           (l)-(3)xlOO        (l)-C2)lOO
Construction of Al Hukalta-
Saywun Highway
Civil Works                     16.09      16.50       32-59 A2l     19.79        10.66      7.10         17.76             184                 165
Engineering services             0.04      0.50         0.54          0.33         0.08      0.29         0.37              146                 164
(Construction Supervision)
Construction Equipment
and Materials                  --       16.23        16.23 3/       9.64                   11.40        11.40             142                 168
Sub-total                16.13      33.23        49.36         29.76        10.74     18.79        29.53             167                  166
En2ineerinR and Economic
Studies of Naqabah-
8eiThn Highway                 0.07       1.26         1.33         0.80         0.12       0.48         0.60             222                 166
Technical Assistance
-- Consultants                   0.03       0.27        0.30          0.30         0.10       0.26         0.36              83                 100
Fellowships                     --        0.09         0.09          0.09         0.04       0.08         0.12              75                 100
Refunding S.12                   --        C.53         0.53          0.53         --         0.53         0.53             100                 100
Highway Maintenance
Equipment  /                   --        0.68         0.68          0.68         -          0.66         0.66             103                 100
TOTAL                  16.23      36.06        52.29         32.16        11.00     20,80        31.80             164                  163
Note:  Contingency allowances has been distributed over all project components for the appraisal estimates of costs.
1/ Financed by KFAED only.
/  Including residual value of construction camp and unused spares estimated at *2.19 million.
3   Including residual value of construction plant and equipsent estimated at $1.89 million.



- 21-                                 TABLE 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, Credit 560-YDR
Actual and Forecast Traffic
(Vehicles per day)
Trucks              All
Cars    FWDV    5-ton    8-ton    12-ton    Vehicles
f        Road Section
1.   Without project
improvements
197: (Actual)
Mukalla-Riyan                 14      80       56       57         9         216
Riyan-Ash Shihr                4      41      28        29         3         105
Riyan-Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)    -        -       -         -         -           -
Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)-Al Qatn  -       18       13       14         2          47
Al Qatn-Sayun                 22      33      15        16         3         89
1974 (Actual)
Mukalla-Riyan                 19     100      66        67         9         261
Riyan-Ash Shihr                4      44      32        32         3         115
Riyan-Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)    -        1       2         2         -           5
Wadi Al Ayr. (km 215)-Al Qatn  1      21       9         9         2         42
Al Qatn-Sayun                 30      48      17        17         4         116
2. With project
improvements
1979 (Appraisal Esimate) 1/
Mukalla-Riyan                 25     132      82        83        11        333
Riyan-Ash Shihr                5      63      61        62         1         192
Riyan-Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)    -       10      39       40          -         89
Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)-Al Qatn  1       34      47        48         2         132
Al Qatn-Sayun                 44      68      40        42         6        200
1983 (Actual)
Mukalla-Riyan                405     395       52      555       113       1,520
Riyan-Ash Shihr              202     127      23       200        35        587
Riyan-Wade Al Ayn (km 215)   11       40       -       194        22        267
Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)-Al Qatn 31      177      21       200        36        465
Al Qatn-Sayun                187     389      30       265        34        905
1/ Normal traffic only, not including generated traffic.



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT.
PEOPLE'S DHMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEEHN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, Credit 560-YDR
Traffic Growth Rates
(Percent per annum)
1979-89   1989-99
1971-1974 (Actual)           1974-1979 (Estimated)       (Est.)    (Eat.)            1974-83 Actual
Pass.               All        Pase.               All        All        All        Pass.               All
Vehicles  Trucks   Vehicles  Vehicles  Trucks   Vehicles  Vehicles  Vehicles  Vehicles  Trucks   Vehicles
1. Local Traffic
Nukalla-Riyan                   7.8       0.4         4.1        5.3      3.9        4.8        6.0        5.0       17.2     16.1       16.7 /1
Riyan-Ash Shihr                 2.9       0.6         1.7        4.6      3.6        4.1        6.0        5.0       15.6     13.1       14.3 7i
Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)-Al Qatn  8.2         0.0         4.4        3.9      4.0        3.9        8.0        7.0       26.4     12.7       22.0
Al Qatn-Sayun                  12.1      13.8        12.5        7.3       7.4       7.3        8.0        7.0       23.9     16.8       22.3
2. Through TrafEic
Riyan-Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)    3.1         8.6         7.9        7.7      8.8        8.6        9.0        8.0      24.9      17.2       18.3
_I Adjusted_for generation Impact of project road improvement.
/1 Adjusted for generation impact of project road improveuent.
)       4



- 23 -
TABLE 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, Credit 560-YDR
1983 Vehicle Operating Cost Estimates by Type of Road
(YD/1000 km)
Four-
Wheel     5-Ton       8-Ton      12-Ton
Car       Drive     Truck       Truck       Truck
Paved
Depreciation & Interest   22.806      15.592    30.240      41.371    54.600
Fuel                       12.956     16.195    25.571      27.896    30.685
Maintenance                 4.868      5.308    14.355       17.078    20.625
Tires                       1.120       1.864     5.533      10.920    25.000
Oil and Lub.                0.525      0.750      1.975       1.975     2.300
Wages                         -         4.466    7.276        7.276     7.276
Total                      42.275     44.175    84.950    106.516   140.486
USi/Km                     12.26      12.81      24.64      30.89      40.74
Cobbled
Depreciation & Interest   34.792      23.788    46.133       66.000    83.296
Fuel                       19.933     24.679    34.084      38.357    42.325
Maintenance                10.148      13.942    30.525      37.922    45.898
Tires                       1.867      3.107      9.222      18.200    41.667
Oil and Lub.                0.675      0.950      3.950       3.950     4.600
Wages                         -         7.469     9.086       9.086     9.086
Total                      67.415     73.935   133.000    173.515   226.872
USi/Km                     19.55      21.44      38.57       50.32     65.79
Track
r     Depreciation & Interest   53.093       36.300    73.920    109.900   132.000
Fuel                       23.557     28.792    51.142       61.371    67.256
Maintenance                16.362     22.495    60.610       75.872    91.795
Tires                       3.500      5.825    17.786      33.600    79.545
Oil and Lub.                1.225       1.750     5.250       5.250     6.125
Wages                         -        8.932    12.089       12.089    12.089
Total                      97.757    104.094   220.797    298.082   388.810
USJ/Km                     28.35      30.19      64.03       86.44    112.75



mm's   w rn a c 
mm  nowst. Qout &D.=
3Wam 1o n61 M   IQ    13    13       3      33     3      13 Im           33   U      33     U      33    13    13                                                                13    13
1' Al A" (1es)61g                                        Am      Un    J7              11     17     17    1D    17       17    1       17    17    17    m         UI     U      17     U       U      U      17     a
Al QMrSV40                                               Su      Mi    367    n        lai    16    16       8     1      1a    AG    AS    16    16    an           6     1      1a            1a      Y      is    Is
t0W  1ont                   in  in                 W  in  IN  i   IN   W   N   N   N   Nw                                                                  low i                 W   N   N   N   W  -M
07  7    Sl1    3I"    41          me    Su    379    GI1    "a               73    i      U      AU    90   NM  IO           1US9   US    US    131       U             1V WD I
--                                        313    43      U      MG  D9        xi    17    an       on    9n  um    U          USA    13   Uto    1        3       us    337 wm                tom _ 
1E m4  Al A.   1)                                                UR   it3   391      WI   MM    211    W1   SW           W    39u    UG   m m        W     SAM    US    S        Gm     MG   71       U       -
,^ At Apo co n13.1                                                            1      13t io 1 mi   19   US    S           =    m1    1v    Us    3Wl   3171   17           a    42      G      Am    sm       -  
Al                                                                             MI-tf  61 o NI    91        IM94   I= 133   1651 331I3                             n M     V 3164 U   l  34 U       -  3M    1W  WA    SM
.m   tad-s  _                      -             - I  NSI Bin   3tl 7AS  SW   WM  WE7   1I                                                                        S U3                           i          iM MM  DM  M   nM
*. NI__fu                     -31   -US7 -1         -_    -135    -11      31     69 SAl U             716   711    US    US   161   u3    1116   3wm   1313   **2   11            US      2      __     -
J                                                                                                                      _       



- 25 -                         Table 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (PDRY)
SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT, (Credit 560-YDR)
Reestimates and Appraisal Estimates of Economic Returns
(
Reestimates                Appraisal Estimates
Economic     First Year       Economic    First Year
Road Section                   Return       Benefit  1/      Return        Benefit
Mukalla-Riyan                    20           10 (1978)        13           11
Riyan-Ash Shihr                  20           13 (1979)        24           22
Riyan-Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)       17           11 (1984)   )    15           11
Wadi Al Ayn (km 215)-Al Qatn    56            62 (1984)   )
Al Qatn-Sayun                    47          46 (1984)         13            9
Entire Road                      22           18 (1984)        15           12
1/ Using a discount rate of IOZ



Pow
CREDIT 56-VG
SECOND HIGhNAY PROJECT COAEnoN hEIW
rwemn ts and Plonned ad Ackxui 1tacmo.                       -
U6SUwUON
Sr~~-   ~
}XtI  W  5I~IO
22
10                      =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1C77 1975 1976  1AA
2 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     -2s
10>    J C,djtx.qIfw & aj



TURKEV                   '   uSr                                                                      40- 46
-\ zOIRA    IRAN   N                                      PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC
NEUTRAL 'ONE
II..                   Z            2L                           TRANSPORT  IN;
I"  SAUDI ARABIA
SUDAN, 
YE. <   < d%2   ARARA8 AA  SEA              0              50            100            150
,.iH IOPIO                                                              MILES
0        50       100       150       200      250
& W~^r, ."rr".- rM  r                              KI3LOMETERS
| IA. c rnvnece f Ith ,*W ef  
the tw t to wfcA ,t me tlahtdm
; rh donmmrons wed mnd the
doo m .4. ::rl IhU p_t .f the
WOW Bk d.f -f. V 
_ dg~mJt on LAW hl. mIas of                                                              V
t OWe, ewaveubrany I
Hr Snhrr rt r S&dah
Jj   /                     YEMEN                          j7
ARAB                         '.7
-l6e    J         |    REPUBLIC
f/ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ I                                          --  .
ts^        9    ____/              y~~~~~~~Marib  /                  
NA'A/ OShabwah
Al Aw)    ubW BiJifiyh /SHABWAH
o  e) ) /f ) - \~J)  .   s,
g                vuitayr~~~~~~,os it                     Qo
>  \  S  LTUBAs>>igibar                               - G Lf L f OF ~~~As  AzAn
14'                                                               ukayr*  AlM          Mehih  6iffo'uh
OC\   TurAl Baho  s
440 S : 2   um,,,¢hi>JkDEN  .       S            .   ,                 480



IBRD 13831R
480                           50'              ~              [ -~JANUARY 1981
- REPUBLIC OF  YEMEN                                                                              20°
:FRASTRUCTURE
250
-A
/                                       .-                        \.  OMAN
pThamud
/                       AL GHEIDAH
Tar      -Sz             .      _                    ~-~tAI-Gh eldch
.  hurof                                            Tobut
<, ,t ]Rud                                             shtun
Haura     ' HADR}MAWT                  :
' - * \ 9awazir,,,                         PROJECT ROADS FOR CONSTRUCTION
-._  .   MuI halIlauhS hr                          PRIMARY ASPHALT ROADS
>,   ,ZRIyon                            ASPHALT ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-Burum
--------- GRAVEL ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
-  _ _ _ ___MAIN TRACKS                       140
;ir Au                                                    AGRICULTURAL AREAS
?r    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
AIRSTRIPS RECEIVING SCHEDULED FLIGHTS
it.    HARBOR
MINOR PORT
ADEN                                                .......... GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
*     GOVERNORATE CAPITALS
490                              50                        .    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i .,FJ.-  1j_j  
Y, i-5 .. '-<x'. '____ /) }' .........................................  .............                                                                                                                                            y       
. :? .;~~~~~~~~~.                         .........  s....................1.: :.X.\0       
..                                                       ......Z E. '              .X                                                                                                                                                                       S Q941  g    8886 
% i-,  ,-. ;.:, x , , : , , ,,~~~~~~....,, x . /;.. .......                                  .........    . . 1 .v
' '%,  '. ......................E-'.' ............... 2 ''')l|o^,
.,  s  . ''.t:'... .....                                            .... .... ' .              :.                 '.: ..    ::.. ., ...... .    
_,   ,,.X <o: .D..;-.. .;.. ... .  * 
3, t8.> ^ x - eL ':: : ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........   .........    .'  ...... ''f;>' 
.<a l    ...............                                                          ::. i' .-                                                                                                                                    L   ; U  
:                                  _. y:.X  >    X   3t--    *    i   , X - . -. X : / :.: :: .: .X . E 1 : . / s: * ................ . . . . .    . .     . .    . . . . .    . . .     . . . . . . .   .  .. ..;.    .  . . - -  .
:.y.  :, :.  . ; _ X ~~~~~~~~~~. .    ....   ..................:  .
, .; ;b;_. a.' .................................................                 .      ........ . '   '',.. .'/ ...... ..................... ;;- . \ .!'  
.                .<         -              X . ... .: . .      .. .. .....
,,,,,, , ~~~~~~~~~~.. ... ..                                                    3 ,.. .'. ),R
>~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~.. .    .. . .... .. ,..   . .E
,.....;,.....        . ...  -D_>........... .                                .. . .    '...'W  1 
_                             eS                    \\-<-v9.                                                                                                           .-' '",-}   / ,S',' *. . '' "                                                                                             11    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .  ...
&  _   /                             ~               ~             ~                            .    ^1,L>;-;                  i''~~~~~~/                  f,'...7 . . . .






