Report No. 732-YDR                                                                     FIL'E  Copy
Appraisal of a
Second Highway Project
People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
May 2, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  = Yemeni Dinar (YD)
US$1.00                        = YD 0.315
US$2.90                        a IYD 1.000
US$2.9 million                 * ID 1 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric System                      British/US System
1 meter (m)                        n 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km))                  = 0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (a2)                = 0.386 sq miles
1 hectare (ha)                     = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (m ton)               - 2,205 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
Alyemda               - Democratic Yemen Airlines
CP                    -  Cooperative Program
CPC                   -  Central Planning Commission
dwt                   -  deadweight tons
FAO                   - Food and Agriculture Organization of
the United Nations
GDT                   -  General Department of Transport
ICAO                  - International Civil Aviation
Organization
?MPW                  - Ministry of Public Works
O-D                   -  Origin-Destination
PDRY                  - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
SF                    -  Special Fund
SIDA                  -  Swedish International Development
Agency
UK                    -  United Kingdom
UNDP                  - United Nations Development Programme
US                    -  United States of America
USSR                  -  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
WFP                   - World Food Programme
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
NOTE
Prices of petroleum products in this report are as of end November 1974.



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGIIWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YE!EN1
CONTEN4TS
Page No.
SUM24ARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................... .-u
I.  INTRODUCTION   ....... * ********...........*.  .  ... ... *. .  ... *.     * .   .  1
II,  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ................ ..............       1
A.   The Country and Its Economy ....  ..............     1
B.   The  Modes   ......................        ..        2
C.  Policy, Planning and Coordination ..*.........       4
III.  HIGHlWAYS ..........................................      5
A.   The Network ...........                              5
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic   ........     5
C.   Administration .........................             6
D.  Planning                                 *   '        7
E.   Financing                                            8
F.  Engineering                        ...                8
G.   Construction ..........                              8
H1.  lighway Maintenance                                  9
I.  Trainiing    .................            .          10
IV.  THE PROJECT ....................                          10
A.  General ...............  10
B.   Road  Construction   ........................ . .   11
C.  Engineering and Economic Studies of the
Nagabah-Ataq-Beihan-Al Ayn Road ............      12
D.  Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Public
Wotks .....                                       12
E.  Purchases of Equipment and Related Spare Parts
for Highway Maintenance .................. .      12
F.  Refinancing of Highway Engineering Credit
S-12 YDR                             .......,  12
This report was prepared by Messrs. Snorri Hallgrimsson, Kalevi Myllylooma
(Engineers), Niels Krogh-Poulsen (Economist) and lIs. Joan Chernock (Editor).
It was revised by Messrs. Robert Mulligan (Engineer) and lienri Beenhakker
(Economist).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                     Page No.
G.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component.       13
H.   Execution        ....................................  15
I.  Procurement . .............. .. ...... . ......      16
J.   Financing  ................................... ...... ..*...  16
K.   Disbursements ...............................        17
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ............... s........ ...          17
A.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries       ......         17
B.   Economic Evaluation .......... .................     19
C.  Road Studies and Technical Assistance ........        22
VI.   RECO1I1ENDATIONS ...................................      22
TABLES
1.  Activities in the Port of Aden, 1966-73
2.  Revenues and Expenditures of Yemen Ports Corporation 1966-73
3.  Aden Airport Traffic, 1965-72
4.   Planned Public Investments During Fiscal Periods 1972-74
and 1975-79
5.  Length and Distribution of Road Network, 1973
6.   Registered Vehicles by Governorate, 1971
7.  Highway Revenues and Expenditures, 1968-73
8.   Design Standards for Project Roads
9.   1973 Fifth Governorate Population Statistics
10.   1974 Production and Consumption Estimates for Wadi Hadramawt and
Coastal Area of Fifth Governorate (metric tons)
11.  Public Investments in Fifth Governorate 1974-1979
12.   Annual Through Traffic Between Wadi Hadramawt and the Coast
1968-1974
13.   1971 and 1974 Local Traffic (ADT)
14.   Normal Traffic 1979 Before Opening of Al M4ukalla-Saywun Road (ADT)
15.   Normal Traffic 1979 After Opening of Al Hlukalla-Saywun Road (ADT)
16.   Vehicle Operating Costs of Typical Vehicles by Type of Road
(YD/1,000 km; exclusive of taxes)
17.  Average Characteristics of Typical Vehicles by Type of Road
18.  Conistruction and Ilaintenance Costs (YD)
19.  Rates of Traffic Growth and Return on Sections of the
Al Mukalla-Saywun Road
20.   Results of Sensitivity Analyses
ANNEXES
A.  Previous Transport Projects
B.  Summary of Project Financing
C.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
D.  Probability Analysis



CiART
Organization of the ,iinistry of Public IJorks
MAPS
IBRI) 11045R - Transport Infrastructure
IBRD 11046 - Project Area






APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND IIIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
SUIMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The present transport network of the People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen reflects its historical, economic and political development. Aden,
capital and economic center, is isolated from most of the hinterland, former-
ly a number of small feudal states which discouraged development of an ade-
quate transport system. Consequently, at the time of independence in 1967,
the transport network consisted of a few good roads around the capital and a
well-developed port in Aden, with limited air connections and coastal ship-
ping.
ii.       At present, the total length of the network of roads and main motor-
able tracks is about 5,500 km of which about 4,800 km are rough tracks pas-
sable only by light trucks and four-wheel-drive vehicles, 475 km are asphalted,
200 km are cobbled, 1/ and a negligible length gravel-surfaced. Both in terms
of extent and quality the road network is insufficient to meet the present
demand of freight and passenger traffic.
iii.      The Government aims to change the traditional service economy, based
on trade and bunkering in Aden, into a mixed service and commodity-producing
economy. To achieve this aim, considerable investments in agriculture and
fisheries have been made and are planned as well as development of a good road
network linking the agricultural areas with market centers and with Aden. The
proposed project supports this policy.
iv.       The Government's Five-Year Development Plan 1975-79 envisages a
total investment of YD 19.1 million in the communications and transport sec-
tor, or about 25% of the total proposed public investment over the Plan period.
Of this amount, YD 16.3 million is allocated to the highway sector. The need
for coordinating the transport investments proposed is recognized and is im-
plicit in the Plan.
v.        The main component of the proposed project is construction with
supervision of 358 km of road between Al Mukalla and Saywun, with a branch
to Ash Shihr. This road would connect and serve two currently isolated re-
gions with major potential for agriculture and fisheries development. The
project also includes the procurement of road maintenance equipment and
spares, technical assistance to and training of personnel of the Ministry of
Public Works, and engineering and economic studies of the Nagabah-Ataq-Beihan-
Al Ayn Road. The proposed road construction would support the agricultural
and fisheries projects, either being implemented or planned in the Fifth
Governorate.
1/   Constructed from natural cobblestones 10-25 cm diameter, loosely embed-
ded in a 30 cm sand layer.



- ii -
vi.       During negotiations for the Highway Engineering Credit S-12 YDR the
Government and the Association agreed that the Credit might be refinanced
under any subsequent highway project. The outstanding balance of US$530,000
under Credit S-12 YDR will therefore be refinanced from the proceeds of the
proposed credit.
vii.      The Ministry of Public Works will be responsible for executing the
project which is expected to be completed by early 1979.
viii.     The total project cost is estimated at US$31.8 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$20.8 million or about 66%. The Asso-
ciation would finance US$10.39 million (50%) of the foreign cost and US$5.11
million (46%) of the local cost on the usual terms; the Government would
finance US$1.0 million (9%) of the local cost, and the Kuwait Fund which has
agreed to also participate in the project would finance the balance, being
US$10.4 million (50%) of foreign cost and US$4.89 million (46%) of local cost.
US$60,000 would be financed retroactively to meet the costs of exploring for
water for road construction. In the absence of any serious response to the
international tendering of the road construction contracts the UK Crown Agents
will provide the technical expertise and managerial skills, presently in short
supply in the Ministry of Public Works, needed to operate a special construc-
tion unit to build the project roads. The Crown Agents' estimated cost of
construction is based on current prices in PDRY. The cost of the supervision,
detailed engineering and technical assistance was estimated on the basis of
the cost of recent services of a similar nature in PDRY.
ix.       The economic return on the investments in road construction is es-
timated at about 15%, with a first-year return of about 12%, indicating the
road construction to be well justified and appropriately timed. Most of the
benefits are expected to accrue to producers and consumers in the area. Bene-
fits accruing from the technical assistance, and the engineering and economic
studies have not been quantified. These elements are justified on the basis
of increased efficiency of investments and operations in the transport sector
as a whole, as well as assistance to the Government in the necessary improve-
ment, expansion and maintenance of its highway network.
x.        The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$15.5
million equivalent to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY)
has requested the Association's assistance in financing a highway project
comprising: construction with supervision of 358 km of road between Al Mukalla
and Saywun, with a branch to Ash Shihr; procurement of road maintenance equip-
ment and spare parts; technical assistance to and training of personnel of the
Ministry of Public Works; engineering and economic studies of the Nagaba-Ataq-
Beihan-Al Ayn Road; and refinancing of Engineering Credit S-12 YDR. The
project cost is estimated at US$31.8 million, of which US$15.5 million would
be financed by the Association under the proposed credit and US$1.0 million
by the Government. The Kuwait Fund has agreed to participate in the project
financing and would contribute US$15.3 million also. Technical assistance
and training are suitable for UNDP financing; however, the Government has
already committed its UNDP 1972-76 allocation and it therefore requested that
the Association include these items under the proposed project. This would
be the third credit in the transport sector, a $1.6 million highway credit of
1971 (Credit 240-YDR and a $0.6 million highway engineering credit of 1972
(Credit S-12 YDR) provided for improvement of the administration and operation
of highway-related activities under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), and
for preparation of high priority road construction projects. The implementa-
tion of these projects, details of which are given in Annex A, has been
satisfactory.
1.02      This report is based on proposals and information received from the
Planning Ministry, the MPW, and the Ministry of Communications (MOC); economic
and engineering studies carried out in 1972-73 by the Lebanese consulting firm
Dar Al-Handasah; the findings of an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program agricultural
appraisal mission to the PDRY in December 1973; the findings of a Bank ap-
praisal mission to the PDRY in November-December 1973 consisting of Messrs.
Mehdi Ali (Economist), Snorri Hallgrimsson (Engineer), Niels Erik Krogh-
Poulsen (Economist), and Kalevi Myllyluoma (Engineer); a supplementary ap-
praisal mission by Robert Mulligan (Engineer) in August 1974 and Henri
Beenhakker (Economist) in November/December 1974.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   The Country and Its Economy
2.01      The PDRY is located on the southern part of the Arabian Peninsula
(Map IBRD 11045), and covers an area of about 290,000 km2. The country is
mountainous with the exception of the coastal plain ranging from 5 km to 65
km in width. The land is arid and over half is completely barren. Arable
land constitutes less than 1% of the total area and is limited by the short-
age of rainfall to a number of wadis 1/, where groundwater can be reached by
shallow wells.
1/   Sharply defined depressions in the desert, forming the beds or valleys
of streams, usually dry except in the rainy season.



-2-
2.02      Most of the economic activity is located in the capital, Aden, with
a population of 250,000 or about 16% of the total population (1.6 million).
Due to its strategic position on the trade route through the Suez Canal, Aden
developed into one of the world's largest entrepot trade and bunkering ports
and an important naval base. The closure of the Suez Canal and the withdrawal
of the British military garrison in 1967, followed by the discontinuation of
British budget support in 1968, caused an immediate decline in economic ac-
tivity, rapid depletion of foreign exchange reserves, mounting trade deficits,
unemployment, and considerable emigration of skilled manpower. To meet this
emergency, the Government cut public expenditures, mainly by reducing sala-
ries, and ensured bilateral assistance for its basic investment needs, es-
pecialLy from Eastern European countries, the Union of Soviet Socialist Re-
publics (USSR) and the People's Republic of China. Total GDP dropped by pos-
sibly 20% between 1966 and 1968 and since then has virtually stagnated. How-
ever, agriculture, the subsistence mainstay for over two thirds of the popula-
tion was little affected. Per capita GNP was about US$100 in 1973. The re-
cent completion of several development projects coupled with the expected re-
opening of the Suez canal and the related increase in Aden port traffic should
lead to a resumption of moderate economic growth over the next few years.
B.   The Modes
2.03      The transport system of the PDRY comprises 5,500 km of roads and
tracks, 2 ports, and 15 airports and airstrips. Pipelines connect the oil
refinery at Little Aden with the Port of Aden. There are no railways. The
present transport network reflects the historical, economic, and political
developments of the country. Aden is isolated from most of the hinterland,
formerly a collection of small feudal states which discouraged the develop-
ment of an adequate communications system. Consequently, at the time of in-
dependence in 1967, the transport network consisted of only a few good roads
around the capital and a well-developed port in Aden, with limited air con-
nections and coastal shipping.
(i) Highways
2.04      Details of the highway sub-sector are discussed in Chapter III.
(ii)  Ports
2.05      PDRY is served by the major international port of Aden and a small
unprotected coastal port at Al Mukalla. Both ports are administered by the
Yemen Ports and Shipping Corporation (YPSC), an autonomous government agency
under the supervision of the Ministry of ComTmunications (MOC). Aden is a
large bunkering port with predominantly inter ational trsffic. The closure
of the Suez Canal in mid-1967 reduced the activities in Aden Port considerably
(Table 1). Furthermore, the two competing seaports at Djibouti in the French
Territory of the Afars and the Issas and at Jeddah in Saudi Arabia, both with
facilities comparable to those of Aden Port, have attracted much of Aden's
previous entrepot trade. Revenues and expenditures of the YPC reflect the
reduced level of activities in Aden Port (Table 2). However, with the expect-
ed reopening of the Suez Canal the Government has requested the assistance of



the Association with a project to rehabilitate Aden Port. This project has
been appraised and as proposed includes finance for supply of equipment and
technical assistance to the three major entities within the YPSC - namely the
Aden Port Authority, the National Shipping Company, and the National Dockyards
Company.
2.06      Master planning for the port of Aden is being undertaken with the
assistance of the Kuwait Fund; consultants are now in the field. In addition,
the Association under Credit 370-YDR is financing feasibility studies for a
new fishing port at Nishtun in the Sixth Governorate, about 350 km east of Al
Mukalla.
(iii) Coastal Shipping
2.07      Coastal trade is mostly handled by dhowws.  Freight statistics are
not available but present movements are small. However, the planned ex-
pansion of fishing activities along the coast and the increased agricul-
tural production in the Wadi Hadramawt (para 5.06) will require transport
of increased quantities of petroleum products and other basic inputs from
Aden. The National Shipping Company under supervision of MOC is operating
four coasters and a number of lighters, tugs and launches used for stevedor-
ing. Its operations are presently hampered by a lack of experienced personnel,
particularly in shipping management, cargo handling, and accounting. These
shortcomings will be provided for in the forthcoming Port project proposed
for IDA financing (para 2.05).
(iv) Civil Aviation
2.08      The country has one international airport in Aden and 14 local
airstrips, of which only 8 are in regular use. The Civil Aviation Department
under MOC is responsible for Aden Airport and all local airstrips. The Aden
Airport has traditionally been a connecting point between East Africa and
the Far East. In 1972, it handled 137,000 passengers and 2,300 tons of freight.
After a drop in traffic volumes following the decrease in economic activity
during 1967 and 1968, both passenger and freight traffic have resumed growth
and are now 80% and 60% of pre-independence traffic, respectively (Table 3).
All local airstrips are unpaved and runway condition is generally poor; there
are no terminal buildings or navigational aids except at Al Riyan, where radio
contact to Aden is frequently interrupted by equipment failure. Traffic data
for the local airstrips are not available, but both passenger and freight
movements are small.
2.09      Training in air navigation and meteorological services has recently
been provided to local staff under a SIDA/UNDP/ICAO technical assistance
program, which also provided meteorological instruments and telecommunications
equipment to Aden Airport. Consolidation of the results obtained and exten-
sion of technical assistance into all airport operational fields are required
to achieve a satisfactory level of service. Government is aware of these
needs and is actively seeking sources of finance to meet theni.



- 4 -
2.10      Domestic civil aviation operations are carried out by the national
carrier, the Democratic Yemen Airlines (Alyemda) which also operates inter-
nationally. Alyemda's operations are hampered by an obsolete fleet in which
all aircraft are over 20 years old and by inadequate administrative and tech-
nical personnel.  Alyemda's management is aware that improvement in aircraft
fleet and staff capability is urgently required and that its long-term opera-
tions should be based oni identification of a suitable route structure. The
current Five-Year plan makes financial provision for remedying most of these
deficiencies (aircraft replacement, airport rehabilitation).
C.   Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.11      lThe principal economic aim of the Government is to change the serv-
ice economy of pre-independence, based on trade and bunkering in Aden, into
a mixed service and commodity-producing economy, with the main economic ac-
tivities concentrated in the public sector. To achieve this aim, the Govern-
ment has nationalized most foreign enterprises, is encouraging the creation
of producers' cooperatives, and has made and plans to make considerable in-
vestments in agriculture and fisheries projects, and a good road network
linking the agricultural areas with market centers and with Aden.
2.12      A Three-Year Development Plan ended in March 1974.  Due to lack of
domestic finance, however, its implementation fell short of its targets, and
investmaent expenditures during the Plan period amounted to only YD 21 million
or 52% of total planned investments (Table 4).
2.13      Since then Government has started a national Five-Year Development
Plan covering FY 1975-79. Total proposed investments under the Plan amount
to YD 75.4 million or an average YD 15.1 million annually. Total planned
investments in the communications and transport sector amount to YD 19.1 mil-
lion, of which YD 16.3 million are allocated to roads. In view of the steep
increases in domestic and international prices since the Plan was drafted in
1973, Government is reviewing annually its sectoral and total allocations to
bring them in line with available financing. The construction of the roads
proposed in this project is not affected because of their high priority in the
Plan.
2.14      The Planning Ministry is responsible for drawing up and coordinat-
ing the Government's long-term investment plans. MOC is responsible for over-
all planning of communications and transportation, except the highway mode
which is the responsibility of the MPW.  The Plan recogniges the need for
coordination between investments within the transport sector and between in-
vestments in the transport sector and other sectors of the economy.  Provision
of technical assistance under the proposed project satisfies this need.



- 5 -
III. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      The total length of the network of roads and main motorable tracks
in the PDRY is about 5,500 km (Table 5). About 4,800 km are rough tracks
passable only by light trucks and four-wheel-drive vehicles; of the remainder,
about 475 km are asphalted, about 200 km cobbled and a negligible length is
gravel-surfaced.
3.02      Both in terms of extent and quality, the network is insufficient
to meet the present demand for goods and passenger traffic. Large areas of
the country, in particular those far from the capital, have no road links
to other parts of the country.
3.03      In addition to municipal streets, the asphalted network consists of
about 350 km radiating from Aden; of these, 185 km were built before independ-
ence and have lasted well in spite of lack of maintenance, but they are now
in urgent need of rehabilitation. The remainder has been built recently with
bilateral aid from the People's Republic of China, and by MPW force account,
partly assisted by UNDP personnel and World Food Programme (WFP) financing.
3.04      Cobbled roads have all been built with the NPW's own forces.  They
are an improvement over the rough tracks, but they have no proper base or sub-
base construction and are liable to failures when subjected to heavy traffic.
As traffic increases, most of these roads will have to be reconstructed.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3.05      The motor vehicle fleet in the PDRY comprises about 19,000 vehicles,
of which 64% are passenger cars and light four-wheel-drive vehicles, 35%O are
trucks and 1% are buses (Table 6). The large number of vehicles left by
the British military forces and civilian personnel in 1967 resulted in tem-
porary over-capacity of the vehicle fleet, which only recently has again begun
to grow perceptibly at about 2% per annum. All vehicle imports are handled
through the State-owned Foreign Trade Corporation.  In order to reduce main-
tenance problems, Government limits the number of types of vehicles imported
for use by governmental agencies, state corporations and cooperatives. The
vehicle fleet is adequate to meet present transport demand.
3.06      About 1,200 trucks are privately owned, mainly ty individuals operat-
ing one or two vehicles; all other trucks and most of the light four-wheel-drive
vehicles are owned and operated by State-owned enterprises or agricultural co-
operatives. Passenger cars are mostly privately owned.
3.07      Traffic is limited on the entire network, because of the low eco-
nomic activity, the bad condition of the roads and tracks, and the dispersion
of the population. Traffic is heaviest in the vicinity of Aden and between
Aden and the agricultural area in Wadi Tuban. Existing traffic counts give



- 6 -
only limited coverage of the country, but the MPW is presently starting reg-
ular traffic counts on the main roads following the recommendations of the
Swedish consultant, Viak, whose services were financed under Credit 240-YDR.
Based on expected economic growth, the overall traffic growth rate is estimat-
ed at 7.5% per annum during the period of the Five Year Development Plan.
3.08      The Government regulates trucking in order to keep freight rates low
yet allow for a small profit margin, to ensure transport services to all parts
of the country and to achieve an equitable distribution of freight between
truck operators. Commercial truck operators are allotted loads and routes
by the General Department of Transport (GDT) under the Ministry of the In-
terior., The GDT levies a fixed charge per trip determined by the load ca-
pacity of the vehicles. After deducting 20% for its own administration, the
GDT distributes the funds thus obtained to the MPW (30%), the Veterans'
Family Fund (30%), and the municipalities (20%). The Government, with Viak's
assistance, has recently completed a study of the system of freight rates and
the activities of GDT with a view to simplifying the rate structure and revise
the freight rates where necessary to ensure that they shall be reasonably
related to transport costs. During negotiations an understanding was reached
that before June 30, 1977 the authorities would introduce appropriate arrange-
ments for periodic revision of transport rates to keep them in line with
transport costs.
3,09      There is no inter-city bus transport, but a State corporation ope-
rates buses in Aden and Al Mukalla. Inter-city passenger transport is by
trucks and small four-wheel-drive vehicles.
3.10      The maximum permissible single axle load is limited to 8.5 tons.
Due to the poor condition of the road network, there is little overloading.
With the construction of new roads higher permissible axle loads may be more
economical in the future (para 3.19). During negotiations the need for re-
vised legislation governing vehicle weights and dimensions was discussed with
Government, and agreement reached that appropriate measures would be taken
within two years of the credit agreement.
C.   Administration
3.11      The MPW is responsible for planning, execution and administration
of road works. In that ministry, the Highway Department is responsible for
road construction and maintenance; the Equipment Department is responsible
for the purchase, maintenance and administration of the equipment pool, in-
cluding highway equipment; and the Planning Unit is responsible for highway
planning, supervises road transport studies and related data collection. The
present organization of the Highway Departmen (Chart) was adopted in 1972
as a result of recommendations made by Viak under the First Highway Project.
The organizational structure is adequate for present and envisaged needs, but
the Department suffers from a lack of experienced personnel. The Soils and
Materials Division and the various construction sites are also short of
experienced staff. The Survey and Design Division is adequately staffed and
functioning well, whereas the Maintenance Division, established on the advice



- 7 -
of Viak, is still in a formative stage due to staff constraints and requires
continued technical assistance and on-the-job training to attain efficiency
in operation. Technical assistance to overcome these difficulties will be
provided under the project (para 4.06) and under bilateral agreements with the
German Democratic Republic, Hungary and the USSR.
3.12      The Highway Department maintains field offices in each Governorate,
which are responsible for highway maintenance and such minor improvement
works as can be carried out by their available force and equipment. They are
responsible for organizing the work force on the WFP job sites (para 3.03),
and occasionally for directing volunteer labor-intensive road works, mostly
undertaken on feeder roads or for urgent repairs on existing roads and tracks.
The field offices are insufficiently staffed to carry out these tasks, and
it is difficult to attract qualified staff at the present low level of Gov-
ernment salaries (para 2.02). This uxisatisfactory situation is unlikely to
improve until Government salary scales-are revised upwards, which, in view
of the country's difficult financial situation, is not likely to happen in
the near future.
3.13      The NPW's Equipment Department is responsible for all MPW equipment,
including equipment for road construction and maintenance. Its two main work-
shops, one in Aden and one in Al Mukalla are adequately equipped. Field work-
shops exist in each Governorate; most are inadequately staffed and equipped,
but the NPW is now making efforts to improve the shops. Viak recommended
improvements in the administration, operation and cost accounting of the MPW
Equipment Department and its field offices. While the Government is implement-
ing the recommendations, progress so far has been hampered by lack of quali-
fied personnel. The aforementioned bilateral agreements (para 3.11) are ex-
pected to accelerate the pace of implementation.
D.   Planning
3.14      Annual and long-term budget and investment proposals for road works
are prepared by the Planning Unit and consolidated by the Planning Ministry
with budget proposals from other ministries. To supply this Unit with high-
way planning data and analyses, a separate Road Study Unit has recently been
set up in the Highway Department on Viak's recommendation. The unit is in
charge of collecting traffic data, cost analysis and equipment and manpower
requirements. It has a staff of only one planning engineer, but two traffic
analysts are expected to joint the unit after completing fellowship train-
ing abroad. The proposed project includes technical assistance in planning
which is also intended to support the efficient operation of the unit.
3.15      The Three-Year Development Plan covering FY1972-74 contained a num-
ber of highway improvement and construction works totalling YD 7.5 million.
These projects were selected without being preceded by feasibilitY studies.
However, during 1972-73 under the First Highway Project Dar Al-Handasah
(Lebanon) and Viak carried out highway feasibility and maintenance studies
respectively. The results of these studies now form an adequate basis for
highway planning in the MPW.



L.   Financing
3.16      ilighway construction and maintenance are funded from the general
budget and by foreign loans and grants. Government expenditures on higlhways
during 1970-73 have more than quadrupled from about YD 0.5 million to YD 2.3
million (Table 7).  hlis increase has been realized with foreign aid from
the People's Republic of China and the USSR.
3.17      Revenues from road user charges in 1972 consisted of import duties
on motor vehicles and spares (9%O); import duties and taxes on oil products
(69%o); vehicle and drivers' licensing (10%); and GDT charges and minor amounts
in road tolls (12%).  The road tolls are collected by local road authorities.
The only portion of the revenues from road user charges earmarked for the road
budget is the 30% of the GDT revenues allocated to the llPW's Highway Department
budget (para 3.08). Road user revenues are sufficient to cover the increases
in expenditures on road administration and maintenance recormended by Viak
(para 3.24), as well as a significant proportion of the investments.
F.   Engineering
3.18      Highway design is carried out by the Survey and Design Division
of the ilighway Department, and by consultants. The Survey and Design Divi-
sion carries out design of improvement and some construction works; its
performance is satisfactory. The infrequent major design works are carried
out by consultants. Detailed engineering for the project roads was carried
out by Dar Al-hlandasah; other recent design works have been carried out by a
bilateral aid team from the People's Republic of China, and the UNDP rendered
assistance to the Survey and Design Division when detailed engineering was
prepared for tile 36 km 4obat Dukein-Kersh road towards the Yemen Arab Republic
border.
3.19      Under the First Highway Project Viak prepared basic guidelines for
road standards which are satisfactory. Detailed standards, especially for
higher class roads, have been prepared on the basis of feasibility studies;
these design standards generally fall within the guidelines developed by Viak.
During negotiations, the Association agreed with the Government on the intro-
duction of complete highway design standards, including design axle loading
for bridges, and a related timetable.
G.   Construction
3.20      The Construction Division of the Highway Department is responsible
for road construction works. It carries out force account construction and
supervises the works on the UNDP-financed Nobat Dukeim-Kersh Road and the Am
Ayn-Nagabah Road, being constructed with bilateral assistance from the People's
Republic of China.



- 9 -
3.21      Table 7 shows that expenditures for highway construction have sig-
nificantly.increased during 1971-73. The UNDP and the WFP have financed
equipment, materials and part of wages for constructing the Nobat-Dukeim-
Kerish Road; construction is carried out by 11PW forces under the direction
of experts provided by UNDP.  The WPP also assists the Highway.Department
with food contributions on about 15 minor road and track improvement and
construction works.  The projects contain an important element of training
for Highway Department staff on the job.  The An Ayn-Al Mukalla Road is being
constructed with staff and equipment from the People's Republic of China.
The Highway Department exercises a nominal supervision of this project.
3.22      The quality of-construction is generally satisfactory, but the
lack of staff in the Construction Department and of funds regularly cause
delays. The local contracting industry is insignificant and capable of under-
taking only minor road works such as haulage and masonry works. Since, in
accordance with the Government's general policy, the 1PW intends to eventually
carry out most road construction and mpaintenance works by force account, the
Government does not encourage the creation of a local private sector construc-
tion industry.
3.23      The IHighway Department has a soils and materials laboratory adequate
for envisaged needs.  The Department is, however, short of skilled staff for
construction supervision and requires technical assistance to continue that
rendered by Viak. This assistance will be provided under bilateral aid agree-
ments (para 3.11).
H.   highway Maintenance
3.24      Lffective highway maintenance was virtually non-existent before the
start of the First liighway Project in 1971.  The Credit Agreement for that
project required the Government to allocate YD 150,000=for road maintenance
in-FY 1972, and in the following fiscal years such funds as would be-consis-
tent with Viak's assessment of the appropriate level of. highway expenditures
needed to maintain the highway network in a satisfactory manner. During im-
plementation of the project, some improvement in road maintenance-has occurred,
notably in equipment repairs and in works supervision, but lack of maintenance
is still evident, particularly on the asphalted road network. Although the
Government realized the importance of adequate maintenance, budgetary con-
straints in recent years have caused annual maintenance expenditures to re-
main at an average of YD 150,000 (Table 7). Early in 1974 Viak drew up a
highway maintenance and improvement program calling for average yearly main-
tenance expenditures of YD 150,000 on asphalted roads, and maintenance and
improvement expenditures of YD 380,000 on other roads and tracks. In view
of the country's difficult financial position, significant increases in the
budget allocation for road maintenance would have been expected to occur only
gradually, and the maintenance efforts so financed concentrated on the as-
phalt roads where traffic volumes are highest and pavement distress most
evident. However, during negotiations when Viak's recommendations were dis-
cussed, Government informed the Association that its 1974/75 allocation for
road maintenance was YD 527,340 and that future allocations would be made oa



- 10 -
the same basis; moreover, YD 700,000 had been allocated in the 1974/79 Five
Year Plan specifically for the repair and maintenance of existing asphalted
highways. The budgetary needs of road maintenance, therefore are being very
adequately met.
3.25      Equipment for highway construction and maintenance is of varied
manufacture and originates from the US, UK, German Democratic Republic,
Czechoslovakia and USSR. It is operated in pool with all other MPW equipment.
Some of the equipment, notably light graders and large crushers, which are not
sufficiently mobile, is not suited for conditions in the PDRY. Credit 240-YDR
financed the procurement of some replacement items. Government has requested
that provision be made under the currently proposed credit for purchasing the
remainder (para 4.07).
I.   Training
3.26      While the present staff of the Highway Department contains some
capable engineers and administrators, many posts are vacant and a large part
of the staff lacks practical experience. The Highway Department has a Train-
ing Section but it is largely ineffective as it has a staff of only one, and
no training programs exist. On-the-job training provided by Viak in the
Highway Department and by bilateral technical assistance from the German
Democratic Republic in the Equipment Department has given good results for
the few qualified counterparts that could be found. A training course di-
rected by Viak for 14 surveyors in the Highway Department has also given good
results. In addition, a total of 16 fellowships abroad ranging =from 2 to 12
months were granted by UNDP and bilateral sources, they concentrated on middle
level management and specialized trades and were only moderately successful,
mainly because of language difficulties. Highway Department management staff
who could have benefited from fellowships, received only two of these grants.
Government proposes to remedy the situation and has requested that a suitable
number of fellowships abroad for Highway Department management be provided
under the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  General
4.01      The project consists of:
(a)  construction of 358 km of road from Al Mukalla to Saywun via
Al Riyan and Al Qatn, including a b anch from Al Riyan to Ash
Shihr, and supervision of this construction (see Maps);
(b)  engineering and economic studies of the Nagabah-Ataq-Beihan-
Al Ayn road (320 km) (see Maps);



- 11 -
(c)  technical assistance in planning, to the NPW, including
fellowships;
(d) purchases of equipment and related spare parts for highway
maintenance; and
(e) refinancing of highway engineering Credit S-12 YDR.
B.   Road Construction
4.02      The project roads to be constructed would replace the existing cob-
blestone roads from Al Mukalla to Al Riyan and from Al Qatn to Saywun and pro-
vide a new road connection between Al Riyan and Ash Shihr on the Coast and Al
Riyan and Al Qatn in the Wadi Hadramawt. All roads would be constructed with
a two-lane, 6m-wide bituminous surface-treated carriageway, and lm-wide
shoulders. Feasibility studies of the Al Mukalla-Al Riyan-Saywun Road were
carried out by Dar Al-Handasah financed under Credit 240-YDR; and of the Al
Riyan-Ash Shihr Road by a FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme fisheries project
preparation mission. The detailed design, also financed under Credits 240 and
s-12 YDR, was prepared during 1972-73 by Dar Al-Handasah. Details of the
design standards, which are satisfactory, are shown in Table 8; proposed
alignments are shown on Map 11046.
4.03      Currently three roughly parallel tracks exist between the Wadi Hadra-
mawt and the coast: one connecting Ash Shihr with Ghuraf in the eastern end
of the Wadi Hadramawt; the second leading from Al Mukalla to Haura in the
western end of the Wadi; the third approximately equidistant between these
two, and approximately on the proposed alignment of the project road (see map
11046). Based on the feasibility studies, this middle alignment was selected.
In the areas along the coast and in the Wadi Hadrawawt, the project alignment
closely follows the present cobbled roads. The mountain and plateau areas
are desert and virtually uninhabited. Acquisition of right-of-way, therefore,
did not impose any constraints on alignment selection, which was made in con-
sideration of construction and transport costs, and the region's development
potential.
4.04      The coastal road and the stretch in the Wadi Hadramawt would pass
through flat or slightly rolling terrain. Two very steep escarpments, at
Abdallah Gharib and Al Qatn, lead to an arid region, which is mountainous to
the south (about 30 km) and a flat plateau to the north (about 100 km).  Con-
struction materials are abundant along the alignments; although the plateau
region is for the most part arid, some perennial water sources near the pro-
posed alignment have already been found. Government is carrying out explora-
tory drilling to locate additional sources in order to reduce transport costs
during construction. As construction techniques can be simplified if water
is freely available, costs may be further reduced; Government's exploration
work up to a ceiling of US$60,000 is proposed to be financed retroactively
from the Credit.



- 12 -
C.   Engineering and Economic Studies of the Nagabah-Ataq-Beihan-Al Ayn Road
4.05      The Nagabah-Beihan-Al Ayn road would link the Al Ayn-Al Mukalla
Road, currently under construction, with the Wadi Beihan agricultural area.
Detailed engineering exists for about 240 km of this road (the sections As
Said-Beihan and a branch road Ataq-Nisab), but requires revision in the light
of the findings of a feasibility study carried out by Dar Al-Handasah (para
3.15). The project provides for the updating of this feasibility study, its
extension to include the Nagabah-As Said section, and the revision and exten-
sion of detailed engineering (estimated at about 100 km) as may be identified.
The Government is likely to request the Association to include this road as a
component of a future highway project.
D.   Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Public Works
4.06      Government will receive bilateral aid from the USSR, German Demo-
cratic Republic and Hungary which will provide for the continuation and con-
solidation of the work of Viak and implementing its recommendations for: (i)
executing and supervising road works; (ii) implementing cost accounting and
control systems for equipment maintenance and for road works; (iii) continuing
traffic counts and analyses; (iv) procuring equipment and spares; (v) planning
and organization of road works; and (vi) drawing up and implementing training
programs for Highway Department staff. To balance the team of experts pro-
vided in this way the credit will finance the services of two transportation
economists wlho will concentrate on the economic aspects of the highway sector.
To further supplement the technical assistance to the NPW, the project would
include fellowships abroad which would provide selected MPW staff with much
needed exposure to modern highway administration. During negotiations, the
details of the technical assistance and training, including the number and
types of fellowships, were discussed and agreed with the Government.
E.   Purchases of Equipment and Related Spare Parts for Highway Maintenance
4.07      Although the road maintenance equipment fleet of MPW is nearly large
enough to cope with foreseeable needs, it includes many items nearing the end
of their useful life, and is of diverse origins and manufacture. In reviewing
the adequacy of the fleet during 1972 Viak identified requirements for addi-
tional and replacement items, which since then have been partially met through
procurement under Credit 240-YDR and bilateral assistance from the USSR. Some
items, however, are still urgently needed. These are, principally, heavy
graders for road maintenance and improvement works and a portable asphalt
plant with loaders and trucks to expedite the long-deferred repairs and main-
tenance of the paved road network. The project, therefore, provides for the
purchase of such additional equipment and related spare parts. The items of
equipment to be procured have been discussed and agreed with Government and
are listed at Annex E.
F.   Re-financing of Highway Engineering Credit S-12 YDR
4.08      Highway Engineering Credit S-12 YDR financed principally the detailed
engineering of the roads to be built under this project. Government and the



- 13 -
Association thes agreed that the Credit might be refinanced under a subsequent
highway project. Accordingly, it is proposed that the US$560,000 proceeds of
Credit S-12 YDR less the US$30,000 first maturity payment which falls due on
May 15, 1975, be cancelled and reallocated to the proposed credit as part of
the project costs.
G.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.09      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$31.8 million equiv-
alent, including taxes and duties. The contingency provision for price es-
calation is estimated at 15% for civil works as most construction materials
and foreseeable equipment spares will be contracted when work begins, and 10%
for all other items except the refinancing of Credit S-12 YDR. Physical con-
tingencies have been allowed at 10% for all items except the road maintenance
equipment procurement and the refinancing of Credit S-12 YDR. A summary of
the estimated project costs is given on page 14.
4.10      The construction cost is based on the Bill of Quantities prepared
by Dar Al-Handasah in their detailed design. Because there has been no his-
tory of road works executed by contract in PDRY, and Government, the Kuwait
Fund and the Association were uncertain of contractors' response to bidding of
the project roads, tenders, invited internationally, were opened in July 1974
for the package of road contracts. A contractor unqualified to do the work
submitted the only bid, (about US$51 million), which was unacceptably high and
was rejected. An investigation by the consultant revealed that contractors
failed to respond partly because of their unfamiliarity with conditions in
PDRY, but mainly because of the volume of road works being contracted else-
where in the region where conditions were more familiar and continuity of work
appeared reasonably assured. It appeared, therefore, that the only means of
building the project roads would be by Government's doing the work with its
own forces. However, Government lacks the management and technical expertise
for such an operation; therefore these capabilities would need to be provided
by an external agency. Because of their construction management expertise and
their association with Government on other matters, (mainly procurement in
connection with a previous highway project Credit 240-YDR), Government, the
Kuwait Fund and the Association agreed that the UK Crown Agents (CA) provide
these services. Accordingly a CA team was invited to PDRY in September!
October 1974, and resulting from that mission and a later more detailed site
visit in February 1975, submitted their construction cost estimate based on
the consultants' Bill of Quantities. This cost figure was confirmed at Credit
negotiations.
4.11      The cost of the construction supervision, and engineering and eco-
nomic studies of the Nagabah-Beihan-Al Ayn Road (about 80 man-months), and of
technical assistance to the MPW (about 48 man-months) were estimated on the
basis of the cost of services of a similar nature in the PDRY. Fellowships
were estimated to cost US$10,000 for an average stay of eight months abroad.



- 1 -
YD (Thousands)          US$ (Millions)       %Foreign
Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Component
l.(a) Construction of Al
Mukalla-Saywun Road       2,88D  1,920   4,800    8.35    5.57   13.92        40 )
(b)  Engineering Services for                                                         )
supervision in connection
with l(a)                    20       85     105    0.06    0.24    0.30      80 ) 65%
2.     Procurement of construc-                                                         )
tion equipment and                                                               )
materials (1(a))              0   3,280   3,280        0    9.50    9.50    100 )
3.     Engineering and Economic
Studies of Nagabah-Ataq-
Beihan-Al Ayn Road           35     140      175    0.10    0.40    0.50      80
4.    Technical Assistance to
MPW  including Fellowships    40    100    1140    0.12    0.28    0.40       70
5.    Procurement of Road
Maintenance Equipment and
Spare Parts                   0     190      190       0    0.55    0.55    100
6.     Refinancing Credit S-12 YDR   0      185     185       0    0.53    0.53    100
Subtotal               2,975   5,900   8,875    8.63   17.07   25.70      67
7.    Contingencies:
(a) Price: 20% on
2 & 5; 17.5% on
1(a); 10% on l(b),
3 & I                 515   1,065   1,580    1.50    3.07    4.57
(b) Physical: 10% on 1,
3 & I                 295     225      520    0.87    0.66    1.53
Subtotal                 810   1,290   2,100    2.37    3.73    6.10
TOTAL        3,785   7,190  10,975   11.00   20.80   31.80      66



- 15 -
4.12      The foreign exchange component of civil works was originally esti-
mated by Dar Al-Handasah at 70% on the assumption that, in the absence of
capable local contractors, the civil works would be carried out by foreign
firms with minor parts of the works (haulage, camp construction, etc.) sub-
contracted to local firms. Under the new arrangements for construction (para
4.09) the foreign exchange component is estimated at 65%. The foreign ex-
change component of consulting services for construction supervision, tech-
nical assistance and detailed engineering were based on the assumption that
these services would be carried out by foreign firms. During negotiations,
the cost estimates for all project components were discussed and agreed with
the Government.
H.   Execution
4.13      To implement the arrangements referred to in para 4.10 above the
roads will be built by a special semi-autonomous project unit set up under
MPW. This unit, which will be managed and operated with the assistance of CA
under contract with MPW, will have freedom to act as a contractor in that it
may:
(a) hire expatriate and local staff at competitive and incentive
wage rates; and
(b)  import construction materials, vehicles, equipment and spare
parts free of duties and import control.
4.14      Separate provision is made in the Credit to enable the purchase
soon after Credit effectiveness of needed construction equipment and principal
construction materials. An advance of US$1.4 million (about 5% of construc-
tion cost) will also be made to the project unit so that it can meet mobiliza-
tion costs covering construction of camps, workshops and facilities needed
prior to road construction commencing. So that the remaining payments under
the project at any one time would relate to the actual amount of work then
completed, Government has agreed to pay the unit as a contractor - according
to the measurements of the work items performed. This procedure would also
simplify project supervision. As the project is not of sufficient duration
(39 mo.) to depreciate fully the larger, more expensive equipment items, CA
will purchase some used equipment. Such equipment, produced by the main
international manufacturers, is now available in several parts of the world,
but principally in Europe, as a result of the reduced amount of work avail-
able to the road construction industry. The procurement of such equipment
will ensure that excessive construction capacity should not remain on comple-
tion of the project; appropriate equipment with residual life could then be
used for road maintenance tasks. Local personnel trained on the project would
be absorbed into MPW's road construction and maintenance organizations; after
completion of the road construction camps would not be dismantled, but used
as road maintenance camps and depots. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from Government that as a condition precedent to Credit effectiveness
it will:
(a) take the legal or administrative actions needed to set up a
semi-autonomous unit, under MPW, to construct the road; and



- 16 -
(b) enter into a contract on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association to provide the managerial and technical skills
needed to operate the construction unit, with CA or other
competent management group satisfactory to the Association.
4.15      Construction supervision will be the responsibility of MPW who will
be assisted by the design consultant, Dar Al Handasah. MPW proposes to invite
proposals from consultants to execute the road studies of the Nagabah-Beihan-
Al Ayn link. Individual experts will be recruited by Government to provide
the other technical assistance services needed. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from Government that it will:
(a) retain firms acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association to provide
construction supervision and execute the road studies of
the Nagabah-Beihan-Al Ayn link; and
(b) recruit individual experts satisfactory to the Association
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association to
provide the needed technical assistance services.
4.16      Civil works are expected to begin in late 1975 and to be completed
about March 1979; studies of the Nagabah-Beihan road should commence in late
1975 and be completed about December 1976. Technical assistance to MPW should
last for about two years from mobilization of the needed experts. During nego-
tiations a schedule for project implementation was discussed and agreed with
Government.
I.   Procurement
4.17      CA will purchase on Government's behalf used and new road construc-
tion equipment (para 4.14), and materials needed for road construction,
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement. There is no local manufacture of the equipment
types needed. During negotiations procurement procedures were agreed with
Government.
J.   Financing
4.18      The project cost (US$31.8 million) will be financed jointly by Gov-
ernment (US$1.0 million), the Association (US$15.5 million) and the Kuwait
Fund (US$15.3 million). An amount of up to US$60,000 will'be financed retro-
actively as from December 1974 from the Credit to meet some of Government's
costs in the exploration for groundwater to facilitate construction in the
arid plateau area of the project road (para 4.04). A summary of project
financing is at Annex B. Government's contribution amounts to 9% of local
costs; the Association will finance 50% of foreign costs and 47% of local
cc 's, and the Kuwait Fund will finance 50% of foreign cost and 44% of
local costs.  During negotiations, at which the Kuwait Fund was represented,
a financing plan for the project was discussed and agreed with Government.



- 17 -
Assurances were also obtained from Government that it will be responsible for
providing any additional funds needed to complete the project in the event of
cost overruns.
K.   Disbursements
4.19      Disbursements from the credit account would be made on the basis of:
-    47% of the total cost of road construction, procurement of
construction equipment and materials, and engineering services;
-    0% of the cost of procurement of road maintenance equipment
and spare parts; and
-    100% of the total cost of all other project items.
All requests for disbursements for road construction and supervision together
with supporting documents would be sent to the Association and the Kuwait Fund
upon receipt of which each institution would disburse its respective share.
4.20      Based on the foregoing and in accordance with the schedule for proj-
ect execution, an Estimated Schedule of Disbursements has been prepared (Annex
C) and agreed with the Government during negotiations. Should funds remain in
the credit account after project completion, any undisbursed amounts would
be used for the procurement of road maintenance equipment.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
(i) Introduction
5.01      The roads to be constructed are located in the Fifth Governorate
in the central part of the country. This governorate has a population of
about 451,000 which is primarily engaged in agricultural and fishing activi-
ties.
5.02      Until independence in 1967, most of the country's development was
concentrated near Aden and communications with the rest of the country were
difficult and practically non existent. Since then, Gover,nment has concentrat-
ed on integrating the various regions of the country economically and adminis-
tratively as well as politically. To link Aden with Al Mukalla in the Fifth
Governorate for these reasons, it is constructing a main paved road along
the coast with bilateral aid from the People's Republic of China. The project
road sections will extend this route from Al Mlukalla to Ash Shihr (about 66
km), and to Wadi Hadramawt (about 292 km).



- 18 -
(ii) Description of the Area Served
5.03      The two areas to be connected by the proposed road - the Wadi
Hadramawt area and the coastal area of the Fifth Governorate - are at pres-
ent only connected by tortuous tracks. Consequently, these two areas have
developed into separate economic regions with limited exchange of goods and
services. Table 9, which presents population statistics of the principal
cities in the Wadi Hadramawt and coastal areas, shows that 81% of the total
population of the Fifth Governorate or approximately 365,000 inhabitants
would be the principal beneficiaries of the proposed road. This population
does not include approximately 9,000 nomads who roam the semi-arid plateau
between the aforementioned two areas. Al Mukalla along the coast and Saywun
in the Wadi Hadramawt, together with Aden (with an estimated population of
about 250,000) are the three largest cities of the country. The Wadi Hadramawt
is the second largest wadi in the country. Together with a few population con-
centrations in the Second and Third Governorates, it is one of the most pop-
ulous regions of the country.
5.04      Most of the agricultural production in the Fifth Governorate takes
place in the Wadi Hadramawt where about 8,000 ha are cultivated. The only
other significant agricultural area consists of 120 ha of tobacco near Ghail
Ba Wazir. The production and consumption statistics shown in Table 10 indicate
that the majority (98%) of the agricultural products grown in Wadi Hadramawt
are consumed in that area. Until recently, there has been little incentive
to increase the agricultural production, since the lack of a road between the
Wadi Hadramawt and coastal areas impedes the development of markets on the
coast. The present, potential demand for agricultural products from the Wadi
Hadramawt in the coastal area, is estimated at 26,000 metric tons per year.
This quantity does not include additional shipments of agricultural products,
which could be transported over the proposed road for consumption elsewhere
in the country or for export.
5.05-     The main activities other than agriculture in the Fifth Governorate
consist of coastal and deep sea fisheries and related industries at Al Mukalla
comprising a small fish meal and oil manufacturing plant and a boatyard for
the construction of wooden vessels. Table 10 shows that of the 1974 total
catch-estimate of 95,900 metric tons, only 2,800 metric tons of dried fish
and 120 metric tons of fresh fish were consumed in the Wadi Hadramawt. With
the existence of a road between Wadi Hadramawt and the coastal areas, the
present demand for fresh fish in the former area would amount to about 10,000
metric tons. The Association is presently financing a fisheries project in
the Fifth Governorate.
5.06      Table 11 shows the public investments planned for 1975-79 in the
Wadi Hadramawt and the coastal areas. Finance for most of these projects
has been secured and their execution has alreacy been starced. The projects
in the Wadi Hadramawt are primarily intended to raise agricultural production,
while those in the coastal areas are primarily intended to develop the fish-
ing industry. These projects provide an assurance for the projections of
normal traffic growth (para 5.12) and they also support the estimate of



- 19 -
generated traffic on the main link between the coast and Wadi Hadramawt.
Construction of a paved road between these two areas will lower transport
costs significantly and should promote the movement of people and trade,
particularly of manufactured goods and fresh fish from the coast in exchange
for agricultural products from the Wadi (para 5.12).
5.07      Another traffic generator in the area of influence of the Al Mukalla-
Saywun road is the potential for tourism in the Wadi Hadramawt which has many
historical places and a remarkable local architecture (the clay multi-story
buildings of Shibam, the fortress of Arr, the ruins in Al Wasita and Rudood
and the high cliffs of the Wadi). There are many hotels with excess capacity
in the Fifth Governorate, while two, one in Saywun and one in Al Mukalla have
modern facilities.
5.08      The main beneficiaries of the proposed road construction are ex-
pected to be the producers and consumers in the area. This distribution of
benefits is the result of Government control over rates, which intends to
limit profits on vehicle operation and to set rates in line with vehicle
operating costs. Government's objective is to stimulate development and
economic integration by passing on to producers and consumers most of the
road user savings resulting from road improvement works.
B.   Economic Evaluation
(i) Traffic on the Al Mukalla-Saywun Road
5.09      The present, northbound traffic between Wadi Hadramawt and the
coast consists primarily of the transport of passengers by truck or four-wheel
drive vehicle and the following products: dried and fresh fish, including
dried sardines used as camel feed and fertilizer, and imported canned fish,
rice, fertilizers, fuels and manufactured products. There is excess truck
capacity southbound, since the present traffic in this direction consists
only of the transport of passengers, some agricultural produce (see Table 10),
and charcoal. The traffic statistics of Table 12 indicate that the average
annual growth rate of the average daily traffic (ADT) between Wadi Hiadramawt
and the coast amounts to 18.8% for the period 1968-74 and 9.7% for the years
1972-74, while the 1974 ADT is 59.
5.10      The local traffic statistics of Table 13 show that during 1971-74
the growth rate of this traffic in the Wadi Hadramawt has been particularly
high. The 1974 ADT representing local plus through traffic ranges from 129
to 188 for sections of the proposed road in the Wadi Hadramawt, and from 137
to 313 for sections of the proposed road along the coast.
5.11      On the basis of past trends in traffic growth and planned economic
development in the Wadi Hadramawt and the coastal areas (see Table 11) the
average annual growth in through traffic was estimated at 9% for the first
ten years of the project life and 8% for the remaining ten years. Correspond-
ing annual growth rates for local traffic in the Wadi Hadramawt are 8% and 7%,
and for local traffic along the coast 6% and 5%. Tables 14 and 15, which



- 20 -
present normal traffic volumes by section on the road network analyzed for
1979 before and after opening of the Al Riyan-Al Qatn road, respectively,
indicate that after opening a significant traffic diversion to this road
is expected.
5.12      The reduction of transport costs following completion of the road
between the coast and Wadi Hadramawt should generate additional travel and
trade (para 5.06). It is difficult to estimate the additional vehicles in-
volved, because of the existence of excess truck capacity southbound and the
possibility of shifting from four-wheel drive vehicles and light trucks to
buses and heavier trucks, and the shift in trade from low value to higher
value commodities. Therefore, the benefits from such traffic have been
estimated directly, assuming price elasticities of respectively 1.5 for
passengers and 1.00 for freight. These elasticities may be too conservative
considering that the current volume of trade and traffic is minimal and that
the Government intends to promote the economic integration of these two
areas by appropriate measures.  For the local roads, generated traffic and
benefits have not been taken into consideration.
(ii) Benefits from the Proposed Road Construction
5.13      Benefits from road construction were quantified for savings in
vehicle operating costs of normal traffic. The operating costs for the five
vehicle categories considered (passenger car, four-wheel drive vehicle and
trucks with load capacities of 5, 8 and 12 tons, respectively) are shown in
Table 16; they are based on the averaged characteristics of typical vehicles
by type of road as given in Table 17. The expected unit savings in vehicle
operating costs range from 37% to 57% for passenger cars and four-wheel-drive
vehicles and from 36% to 64% for trucks.
5.14      Significant benefits will also accrue from the reduction in other
transport costs such as the cost of packaging and losses due to breakage,
other damages, and spoilage of perishable goods. These benefits could not
be fully quantified because of lack of data; only the potential spoilage of
fresh fish has been estimated. Limited quantities of fresh fish are currently
been transported in light trucks from the coast to Wadi Eadramawt, although
the catch is largely spoiled upon arrival; trucks occasionally break down
and the catch is a total loss. On conservative assumptions regarding the
degree of spoilage and the volume of fresh fish likely to be transported
upon opening of the main road link, the benefits from reduced spoilage are
estimated at YD 175,000.
5.15      Other quantifiable benefits are savings in maintenance costs of
existing cobbled sections and escarpments of the proposed road construction.
(iii) Alternatives Considered
5.l6'     Two alternative road surfaces were considered for the proposed road
connections: oil-stabilized-gravel and bituminous surface treatment. In ad-
dition, two alternative road alignments along the present Eastern and Western



- 21 -
tracks were considered for the main connection (Al Riyan-Al Qatn).   Economic
considerations resulted in the selection of a bituminous surface treatment of
the proposed alignment.
(iv) Economic Returns
5.17      For the evaluation of the economic returns (ERs), the initial invest-
ment cost was taken as the basic construction cost (YD 5.84 million) together
with the provision for preliminary costs (YD 1.16 million) and overheads
(YD 1.19 million) totalling YD 8.19 million. To this sum was added a contin-
gency allowance for quantity increase (YD 0.49 million). Construction was
assumed to commence in 1975 and to be completed in early 1979.
5.18      The ER was computed on the basis of the full stream of benefits,
annual and periodic maintenance costs (see Table 18) and initial investment
costs. The returns, given in Table 19, show that the construction works
would have an overall rate of return of 15.4% with the various sections rang-
ing between 12.7 and 23.6%. The first-year return of the construction works
is 12%.
5.19      Sensitivity analyses testing the ER of the whole project (15.4%)
gave an overall project return of 14.6%, assuming 15% cost overrun, and an
overall return of 14.5%, assuming a 15% reduction of benefits (see Table 20).
ER's based on more conservative traffic forecasts also show that the proposed
road construction would be justified (see Table 19). The lowest ER based on
the most conservative traffic forecast amounts to 11.0% and relates to the Al
Qatn-Saywun section. From a probability analysis, taking into consideration
factors having a significant degree of uncertainty (construction costs, main-
tenance costs, traffic forecasts, and vehicle operating costs), it appears
that the overall ER will have a 75% probability of being higher than 13.8%.
Details of the probability profiles assumed in the calculations and the re-
sults are given in Annex D.
5.20      The above ERs are conservative estimates because the benefits do
not include:
(i) savings in passenger travel time, reduction in accidents,
and increased comfort of travel;
(ii)  transport savings from a probable shift to larger size
and more efficient vehicles;
(iii)  savings from generated traffic on the local roads;
(iv)  savings from reduced packaging requirements, breakage,
other damage, and spoilage of perishable goods except
fresh fish; and
(v) the possible exploitation of oil north of Wadi Hadramawt.



- 22 -
Neither were certain important indirect benefits considered such as the
socio-political improvements made possible by a better road between the
Wadi Hadramawt and the coast.
C.   Road Studies and Technical Assistance
5.21      Benefits from road studies and technical assistance have not been
quantified. Revision and extension of the feasibility study of the As Said-
Beihan and related detailed engineering (see para 4.05) is required on the
following basis. The Am Ayn-Al Mukalla road, which is presently under con-
struction and will connect Aden with Al Mukalla, and the Nagabah-Beihan con-
nection would link the agricultural areas of the Wadi Beihan and the Wadi
Habban with three major cities (Aden, Al Mukalla and Ash Shihr). Consequent-
ly, the Nagabah-Beihan connection would integrate these two wadis with the
rest of the country, which appears desirable from economic and administrative
view points.
5.22      The technical assistance should help ensure that future operations
and investments in the sector would maximize socio-economic benefits. It is
justified on the basis of increased efficiency of investments and operations
in the transport sector as a whole. The two proposed transport economists
provide, with the forthcoming bilateral technical aid, a well-balanced team
for assistance in road construction and planning. The fellowships are expect-
ed to contribute to a more efficient and adequate NTW organization that can
be increasingly responsive to the administrative, planning, and operational
requirements of an integrated transport system.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During Credit negotiations, Government confirmed its intention, by
June 30, 1977, to institute procedures for the periodic revision of freight
rates for truckers (para 3.08), and agreed:
(a) the need for appropriate legislation governing the weights
and dimensions of vehicles using the national highways system
and a timing for its enactment (para 3.10);
(b) the need to introduce appropriate highway design standards to
cover the requirements of the national highway system (para
3.19); and
(c)  the need to allocate annually fund  adequate fir the maintenance
of the national highway system (para 3.24).
6.02      As conditions of effectiveness of the credit Government will:
(a)  take the necessary legal and administrative measures to set
up a semi-autonomous construction unit under MPW (para 4.14);
and



- 23 -
(b) enter into a contract on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association for the provision of the management and
technical skills needed to operate the construction unit
with CA or other competent management group satisfactory to
the Association (para 4.14).
The prior or concurrent effectiveness of the Kuwait Fund Loan is also a con-
dition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
6.03      The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$15.5
million equivalent to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen on the usual
terms.
Mai 1975






APPRAISAL OF
A SBUOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Activities in the Port of Aden, 1966-73
Type of Activity                           1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972   1973
Port Calls
ships                                5,727   6,246   3,100   1,382   ',568   1,613   1,466   1,371  1,320
dhows 2/                            1,519   1,443   1,415   1,347   1,434   1,310        938      705    625
Tonnage (1000 NRT)
ships                              28,442  21,426  15,349   6,101   8,089   8,174   6,512   5,695  5,542
dhows                                  148     140  -  137      128     131      125       88      69     65
Tran.sit Passengers (1000)                  146     128       28       1        3       3        2       0       0
Bunker Fuel (1000 metric tons)            3,321   3,489   1,400      388      576     557      409     353    305
Dry Cargo (1000 metric tons)
imported                              698      674     482      455     436      460      299     303    309
exported                              296      279     256      201     185      155     132       73      65
Oil Cargo (1000 metric tons)
imported                            8,274   8,083   6,109   5,145   6,609   6,477   3,896   3,720  3,342
exported                            4,243   3,985   4,355   4,372   5,585   5,625   3,138   3,100  2,723
1/  Calendar Years.
2/  Powered barges of small tonnage used mainly for coastal trade.
Source:  Yemen Ports Corporation.                                                                               H
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A S1COND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YE2EN.
Revenues and Expenditures of Yemen Ports Corporation. 1966-73
(YD thousan
1966    1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
Revenues                                                 1,738   1,851       962     924   1,041   1,246        969      886
Tolls and wharfage on imports, exports and                 542      517      362     45h1     491      675      422      380
transshipments
Tolls on bulk oil installation                             347      398     113       66       71       77       '73      7 1
Tolls and commuted payments on little Aden                 151      151     123      121      160      152      153      112
Ref inery
Pilotage charge'                                           154      181      51       39       49       48       40       40
Port dues                                                  406      457     140      113      157      147      158      152
Others                                                     139      147     172      134      113      147      123      131
Expenditures                                             1,540   1,500   1,455   1,1Oll       880      937      894      829
Current  expenditureg,                                   1,371   1,294   1,366        791     822      868      888      819
Capital expenditures-/                                     169      206       89     220       58       69        6       10
Balance                                                    198      352   - 493      -87      161      309       75       75
-                                                                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
1/  Fiscal years ending iMarch 31.                                                                                               I'
2/  Including depreciation and renewals.
Source: Yemen Ports Corporation.
May 1975



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A SICOND HIGHWAY PROJHET
PEOPLE'S DEKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Aden Airport Traffic 1965-72
Passengers                Freight           Aircraft
Arrivals and Departures-         (thousand         Movements
Year                 (thousands)             metric tons)       (thousands)
1965                  169.2                       4.0              12.3
1966                  163.6                       3.2              10.6
1967                   89.9                       1.7               6.2
1968                  106.5                       1.8               5.6
1969                  125.7                       1.9               6.4
1970                  147.8                       2,4               6.7
1971                  153.1                       2.3               7,0
1972                  137.4                       2.3               6.1
l/  Excluding transit passengers
Source: Department of Civil Aviation
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HmBWAY PROJ1IT
PEOPLE'S DEYCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Planned Public Investments 1972 - 74 and 1975 - 79
Total Planned Investm nts                Average Annual Planned Investments                         Distribution
YD2?iIlion)                                            (YD million)                                        (Ti
A.  Investments by Sector                            1972-71975-1979                                  1972-191h            1975-1979               1972-1974             1975-1979
Agriculture and Fisheries                         10.5                   27.7                     3.5                   5.5                      26                    37
Industry                                           9.7                   13.5                     3.3                   2.7                      24                   18
Transport and Communications                     12.8                   19.1                      4.3                   3.8                      32                   25
Mineral Exploration                               2.6                     0.9                     0.9                   0.2                       6                    1
Social Services                                    4.7                   14.2                     1.6                   2.9                      12                   19
Total                                         40.3                    75.4                    13.5                  15.1                     100                   100
B.   Souree of Finance
Domestic                                          24.5                   34.5                      8.2                  6.9                      61                    46
Foreign                                           15.8                   40.9                     5.3                   8.2                      39
Total                                         40.3    -                                                             15.1                     100                   100
/ Fisecal years ending March 31. Fisoal years 1972-74 correspond to the comrpleted Thbrewsrr Dev-loapent Plan; fiscal years 1975-79
oorrespond to the ourrent Five-Year Development Plan.
2/ Expenditures during fiscal years 1972-73 amsounted to YD 12.3 million or 31% of total planned inveBtments, during fiseal years 1972-74.
Sources  Quinquwnnial Plan for Economic and Social Development (1974/74-1978/79), Aden,PDRY, March 1974.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Length and Distribution of Road Network. 1973
(km)
Surface Type
Governorate                    Asphalt      Cobble       Gravel       Earth        Beach        Total
First i                         105            0            0           48            0           153
Second                           88            0           21          602            2           713
Third                           272            0            0          523           87           883
Fourth                             0           0            0         1030           59          1089
Fifth                            10          203           11         1952            9          2185
Sixth                             0            0            0          486            0           486
Total                      475          203           32        4641          157          5509
% of Network Length                8           4            1           84            3           100
1/  Including Aden which has 83 knm of asphalt roads.
Source:  Highway Technical Assistance Interim Report, Part I, Viak, Aden, March 1972, and Ministry
of Public Works.
May 1975



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJBWT
PEOPIE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMN
Registered Vehicles by Governorate, 1971
Govern9rate2/          Cars          -2axis        Buses      Trucks       Total
First3/               8,827            921           108       2,820      12,676
Second                   77            200            21       1,500       1,798
Third                   129            831             -         4o6       1,366
Fourth                  269            177             -                   1,o040
Fifth                    39            626             -                   2,165
Total                 9,341          2L755           129      6,820       192045
1/  Excluding vehicles belonging to the Ministrie8 of Defonse and Interior.
f/ Vehicles in the Sixth Governorate are registered either in the First or
Fifth Governorate.
3/  Including 56 cars and 1,h70 trucks, belonging to Government, which are
not registered by Governorate.
L/ Including four-wheel drive vehicles.
Source: Central Statistical Office
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SEOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Highway Revenues and Excpenditures 1968-1973-
(YD thousand)
Revenues                                    1968       1969         1970        1271        1272         1973
Import duties and taxes on gasoline,
diesel oil and lubricants                600.0        670.0      837.6      1056.3      1149.6        n,a
Import duties on vehicles and spares       122.8        172.5      160.3       142.4        146.9        n.a.
GDT   charges and road tolls               160.0        254.4      235.6       224.6        200.0        n.a.
Licensing fee, on vehicles and drivers   157.0         141.5       136.3       153.6       168.0         n.a.
Cart tax                                    0.6         0.7          0.7         0.14         0.3        n.a.
Total                         1,040.4      1,239.1     1,370.5     1,577.3     1,6614.8    1,665.0
2/                                                                ___
Expenditures 2
Administration                             35.1         27.7        25.7        30.6         35.8        68.2
Workshops                                 196.6        201.2       251.14      252.6        172.8       176.6
Road maintenance                          189.6        202.1       133.2       1714.7 /     13147      lf,0.0 o
Road construction                         369.7       173.0        105.8       1451.34/   1,1639W   1,95,24'
Total                           791e0       604.0        516.1       909.2      1,507.2     2,361.0
1/  Fiscal years ending March 31.
2/ Not including expenditures on municipal roads averaging about YD 32,000 per year.
3/ n.a. = not available
,lIajor proportion of construction expenditures provided by People's Republic of China.                           -
Source: Ministry of Public IWJorks.
May 1975



TABLE 8
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPJBLIC OF YEMEN
Design Standards for Project Roads
_Lype of Terrain
Design Element                           Flat         Rolling       Mountainous
Design speed (km)                          80            50              30
Lane width (m)                              3             3               3
Lanes (No.)                                 2             2                2
Shoulder width (m)                          1             1               1
Minimum horizontal radii (m)              200           100              40
Maximum grade (%)                           4             9               13
Minimum sight distance (m)                110            60              33
Passing sight distance (m)                500           200             100
Maximum Single Axle Load (m tons)          10            10              10
Source: Dar Al-Handasah, November 1973
>y 1975



TABLE 9
APPPAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
FEOPLE'q DEMDCRATIC REFUBLIC OF YEMEN
1973 Fifth Governorate Population Statisticsi/
. - ~~   ~~~~ ,    -dadi Hadramawt
Fifth Governorate             Area                     Coastal Area
District  Population       City    ,Population          City       Population
South     107,764       Saywun       )43,637        Al-Mukalla      53,295
East       81,696       Tarim         42,906        Ash Shihr       31,716
West        82,539      Sif           34.096        Ghail Ba Wazir 25,656
Center     4B,114       Shiban        28,561        Al Hibs    .1971
North     130,544       Al Qatn       26,355        Proom,   9,497
Wadi Ahned.  23,94 4
Haura          9,972
Sah            9,965
Al Ghuraf      5,475
;  Tota2l    450,657                 j 22h,911                       1 139,735
100                        50 o                    j      31
1/ Country's total population is approximately 1.6 million.
Sou.rce: Ministry of Planning
Mya, 1975



TABLE I7
APPRAAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCEATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
1974 Production and Consumption 3stimates for
dTadi Hadramap-et and Coastal Area of Fifth Governorate (metric tons)
_ Production                    Consumption
Product       Wadi       Coastal I    Wadi    I Coastal
E Hadramawt      Area     Hadramawt  i  Area
4heat           6,6h0        -         6,6h          -
Sorghum         2,500        -          2,500        -
Vegetables      2,800                   2,500          300
Alfalfa        15,400 .   -           15,00
Dates           9,600        -          9,100         500
Sesame             120   I                       '   -
Dried fish,       -                     2    2/8-
I Fresh fish,      -          5,9o0         120       4,890
Toal      37,060                 39,060        5,690
1/ n.a. * not available.
2/ Excludes dried sardines used as camel feed and fertilizer.
Source:  Saywun Agricultural Research InstitutE, Mukalla and Ash Shir
Fish Corporations, and Handbook of Statistics and Tourism for
the Northern District, Fifth Governorate (1970).
MayV 1975



TABLE 11
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DENDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Pablic InvestmentsAln Fifth Governorate 1974-1979
Commencement       Project Costs           Nature of
Project             & Completion       (I  thousand)            Foreign
Description               Years       Local   Foreign  Total      Financing
A. Wadi Hadramawt
1 1.State farm                       1974/75        157         -       157
2.)Drilling of 40 artesian wells    1974/75          -      1,070    1,070   bilateral aid
3.iTwo cold storage facilities
for fish (Al Qatn & Saywun)       1975/75        -          60       60   bilateral aid
4.!Station for the renting of
I agricultural implements          1975/76        133        -        133
5. Wadi Hadramawt agricultural
6   development study              1975/76         11        89       100   IDA
6. Centres for plant protection      1975/79         60 /       -        60 J
7. Veterinary centres                1975/79         68        -         68
8. Electrification                   1976/77      1,340     1,005    2,345   bilateral aid
9. Agricultural Project 9                           630     2,170    2,oOO   IDmA
Subtotal                             2,399     4,394    6,793
B. Coastal Area                                                              l
10. Cold storage facilities for                  l
fish at Al Mukalla & Ash Shir   1974/76         114       536       650   IDA
11. Technical assistance for
fisheries development            1974/76         66       965    1,031   IDA
12.'Al Mukalla boatyard               1974/76         -        110      .110   bilateral aid
13. Fishing vessels                   1974/77        100       553       653   IDA
141. Al Mukalla water supply study    1975/76          3        16        19   IDA
15. Cold storage facilities along
coast                            1975/77         -        200       2005' bilateral aid
16. Coastal road from boundary
with Fourth Governorate to
-   Al Mukalla                       1975/77         -        410-5l    41i    bilateral aid
17. Maifa Hagr development            1975/77        652         -       652
18. Fish canning factory (Al
Mukalla)                         1975/78         -      1,280    1,280   bilateral aid
19. Expansion fish meal factory       1975/78        155     2,420    2,575   Arab Fund
20. Coastal road from Ash Shir to
boundary with Sixth Governorate. 1977/79         -        360      3605/ bilateral aid
iSubtotal                             1,090     6,850    7,940             _
C . tGail Ba Wazer
121. Tobacco production                1976/79         81        _        81
Total                             3,570   - 11S244 1l4,814
/ Excluding Ministry bf Public Works investments for the repair and maintenance of
roads, expansion of workshop-capaeit and purchase of road equipment.
2J Fiscal years ending March 31; fiscal years 1975-79 correspond to the current Five-
Year Development Plan.
This project is a possibility, since its financing has not yet been ensured.
2 Pbssibly supplemented by another international finance organization.
Estimate
Source: Ministry of Planning
MaY 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A S9COND HIGHWAY PRW0JET
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEYE
Annual Through Traffio Between Wadi Hadramawt and the Coast 1968-1974
Y / _ * Uteax}4;                                      2;a--  ate  ack2                 _     _      LL1    T_r . -Al Txok)
\ Yearil   MV FrWu D TrTaotal       PWD                   Total                         FWDIV / Truck u Total  F(W /Tnaok&1 otal  FDY-21 TruckA' Total
1968     n.a.    n.a.    2,900       _       _        _       n.a.    n.a.    4,900    n.a.|  na|  7,800' n.a.  | n-a.               21
1969     n.a.     n.a.   3,800       _                _ -             n.a.    6,000    n.a.    n.a.    9,800  j n.a.    n.a.         27
n970    n.a. -n.a.                                  n.a.    n.5a. _   i       n.a.    n.a.  13,000    n.a.    n.a.         36
n. a,   6,800                                     n.a.   ~~~~~~~~~n.a.  1710 n.a.    n.a.      4
1971     n.a.    n.i.   6,800        -       -        -       n.a,    n.a.  10,300    n.a.                                           47
2972      835    3,032   3,867        4       98    102      1,142  12,798  13,940    1,981k 15,928- 17,909  '    5         144      49
1973      844    2,250   3,094       48      422    470      1,218  14,4641 15,682    2,110 i17,136 19,246  1   6           47       53
1974      996    2,132   3,128       84    1,458  1,542      1,442  15,350j 16,792    2,522  18,940  21,462          79
.1/  1968-71 data are estimates based on Consultant' s report; 1974 data are estimates based on January through November 1974
information.
2/ Centralbraok was opened late in 1972.
F Four-wheel drive vehicles plus an insignificant portion of, midsized European cars.                                                              d
Trucks with 5 and 8 tons load  capacity plus fuel tankers;  the number of fuel tankers has been relatively constant
during 1972-74 amounting to approximately 95 on the Western Road aud 3,400 on the Eastern Road.
T Trucks with 5 and 8 tons load capacity.                                                                                                         H
n.a. = not applicable.
Source:  Departments of Public Transport at Al Mukalla and Ash Shihr and Departments of Traffic at Al Mukalla and Ash Shihr.
4a3 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DENCCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
1971 and 1974 Local Traffic (APT)
_ _ _ _ _ 1   - _ _ _   . e i ~       _  _   _  _         _.         
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vahicl e-l a
Car         FWDV     Truck A      Truck B     Truck C  All Vehicles Lrowt"m
Road Section?              1971n   1974 1971 1 19X74 1971 11974  19711b 1974 1971 1974 1971  197  _ twae  
Al Mukalla-Jol Mas'ha *       26.0  32.0  89.0 109.0  55.0  55.0  56.0 56.0  12.0  12.0 238.0 264.0       4
Jol Mas'ha-Buwaish *          19.0  26.0i 84.0 107.0  50.0  50.0  49.0 49.0  12.0  12.0 214.0 244.o       5
Buwaish-Al Riyan *             4.0  4.9 ! 63.0  77.0  28.0  29.7  29.0  30.7  5.o   5.3 129.0 147.6       5
Al Riyan-Shuhair *             3.01 3.71 47.o 57.8  27.0  28.6  26.0  27.6  5.0   5.3 108.0 123.0         4
Shuhair-Ghail Ba Wazir         2.01  2.5  29.0 35.5  12.0 13.9  13.0  15.0   2.0   2.3  58.0  69.2        6
Ghail Ba Wazir-Al Hibs          -    -   6.0   7.0  3.0  3.5   4.0  4.5    -    -  13.0  15.0             5
Shuhair-Ash Shihr *            4.ol 4.0  36.0  36.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  2.0   2.0  88.o  88.o        0
Ash Shihr-Al Hibs               _    _   5.o   5.0  3.0   3.7   3.0   3.7    -         -  11.0  12.4      4
Al Hibs-Al Ma'arah              _     _   2.0  2.0  1.0   1.3    -        -     -     -   3.0  3.3        3
Al Ma'arah-Sah                  _     _   3.0  3.7   1.0  1.3   1.0  1.3    -          -   5.o   6.3      6
Sah-Ghuraf                    14.0  14.0  22.0  22.0  6.0  6.o   6.o   6.0   2.0   2.0  50.0  50.0        0
Ghuraf-Tarim                 100.0 122.0  60.0  73.5  12.5  15.3  12.5  15.3  2.0   3.0 187.0 229.1       7
Ghuraf-Saywun                 84.0 117.0  61.0  85.o  16.0  19.6  16.o  19.6   6.0   7.3 183.0 248.5    11
Saywun-Shibam *               50.0  70.0  43.o 60.0  8.0 11.2  8.0  11.2   4.0   5.6 113.0 158.0   12
Shibam-Al Qatn *               4.0  5.0  26.0  36.0  8.5  12.9   8.5  12.9  2.0   3.0  49.0  69.8    13
Al Qatn-Ajlanieh                -   1.0  18.0  22.0   7.5  7.5   7.5   7.5  2.0   2.0  35.0  40.0         5
Ajlanieh-Haura                  -     -  14.0 19.0   5.3  5.3   5.3   5.3  2.0   2.0  26.6  31.6          6
Jol Mastha-Thailah Al Ulya     7.0  9.8  5.0   7.0  6.0  6.o   6.o   6.o    -         -  24.0  28.8       5
Thailah Al Ulya-Al Fardah       -     -    -    -       -     -     -     -     -     -      -     -
Al Fardah-Ruhab                 -     -   1.0  1.2   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    -       -   3.0  3.2        2
Ruhab-Al Hajarain                _    _          g.o  9.6  1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   2   m12.0 12.6         2
Al Hajarain-,Haura              _    _   6.0  6.5  4.5  4.5   4.5 |4.5   2.0   2.0  17.0  17.5            1 
lJ The vehicles are: (i) midsised European car; (ii) FWDV: four-wheel drive vehicle; (iii) truck A
with load capacity of 5 tons and diesel engine; (iv) truck B with load capacity of 8 tons or 42
passengers and diesel engine and (v) truck C with load capacity of 12 tons and dieael engine.
2J The road sections with asterisks form part of road construction.
/ Over-the period 1971-74.
Sercet Highway Feaslbility and Preliminary !ngineering Study, Final Report, Volume I, Dar Al-Handasah,       I!
Aden, December 1972 and missimi estimates.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SEClOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEO)PLE' S DEMJCRATIC REPUB3LIC OF yEMFM
Normal Traffic 1979~ Before Opening of Al Makalla-SaYwun Road (ADT)
___  Car        -,FneTuk B                                                                      Tuk C    __            All Vhce
Road Section2/           Loca1!ThrouTh _Totajj  ocl4ruhTtal  Local Through iTotal  Local ThroughiTtiLoaIruhTotal  Iocal Through Ita~l
AlMukalla-olMas'ha*        42    -4 1          142        81150          66      30   96         6.  31   I 98il14              ~ -      14 331         691400
Jol M4as'ha-Buwaish *35                   ~ -    35  i.4o 1    5j1145             61      27    88       60    27        87      15       -      15  311         59   370!
Buwaish-Al Riyan *                 6      -        6  100          5    105    36         27 163         37      27      614      6!      -       6    185       59  2414
Al Riyan-Shuhair *                 S         ,     5 ? 1           1 1 0 3                  25           3       2        6       6       -       6     16        421
Ghail Ba Wazir-Al Hibs  -    -               961    4I  354I  22                     26 57'3         2 2     281   6                        906     48    139
Shuhair-Ghail Ba Wazir              3     -        3      47       14     Sl    17!   22        39       1                 I
9  1      1        4l232                          2       2                -     2        i8     149     67
Shuhair-Ash Shihr *                5                 -41 l114212                                        28~    -          28       -                    l 05-            0
Alh Shibrs-Al                                             44ara44-28                              28656                                                                  1
As   hh-Al Hibs                -!             -       3'      6      12              31   I36        5   32     37            2           12        121    69       87
AlMHbsAlarah   arah                 -3                             611!            '2     31133            2     32 1334          -               -          16 69       785
Sah-Ghuraf                  -    I  -                                      ,~~~~5    11 2  3  33  1.321t!34         -                             69      78'
Sa-hurafTa                        -6              16      26       6.32!           7      28   35          7 i29    36*           21              2      58      63    121
1rim                     ~~~~~~160       1602~                            25 118          143     25     181143 10I - 110                       356      14     39
!Ghuraf-Saywun         ~        12         -196                  1 .9        1    0       1      31 2               01 01130                                     2       2
Saywun-ShibaLm172112141 -92
'Saywun-Shibam*         -101102'   88!    14192                           16   111127             16'i  11        27       8'1  8    230                 26    256
IShibam-Al Qatn *7                         -        7149~   3              52      18       8   i26       181      8    26         4       - 14           96      19    1151
lAl Qatn-Ajlanieh                   1  I-           1     29       2      31       9       3      12       9'      3   !2~   2             -       2     50        8     58 
~Ajlanieh-Hauira                    -               -124                  2                 4110           6'    14110o            2              2      38      11      1491
Jol Mas'ha-Thailah Al Ulya         1               1       0       3      1                         0      7      1       1       -1      -       -      3       10      148
tThailah Al Ulya-Al Fardah          -      -        -        '     3       14      1       3       4       1       14;5                                           0       1
IAI Fardah-Ruhab                      l    -        -       2     3         5       1       3     41                1    15'    -          -       -       14     10      114
Ruhab-AlBajarain     -~~~~~  -             10       3      13'    2         3   1  5       2114            6        -               -     114     10      214
tA    aaai-ar                        :1                  8          311             5       3  i8        5I14             9        2 I2                   20  j10         30
!AlRiyan-Al          Qt *           -,' Qat: .                           05    _-          5        5     -,n_                                     -       -_    0.       05
LJ The vehicles are: (i) midsized E'uropean car; (ii) FWDV:- four-wheel drive vehicle; (iii) truck A with load
capacity of 5 tons and diesel engine; (iv) truck B with load capacity of 8 tons or 142 passengers and diesel
engine and (v) truck C with load capacity of 12 tons and diesel engine.
2JThe road sections -with asterisks form part of road construction.
Source: Mission estimates
NV~ 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SEOND HIGHWAY PROJET
PEP!LU'8 D3OCRATIC RV'UBLIQ OF YOM
Normal Traffic 1979 After Opening of Al Mukalla-Sywn Road (ADT)-
r  4                             .~~~~~~~~ ~~~~JA11V~~~~~All         les
Road__   Section___al_I__Through Total  LoaLThrough T~otal  LolThrouzhi Total                          rog  TT OL~ho                 oa
Al Makalla-Jol Mash'ha *        42      -      42     142      8    150      66      30     9       67      31     98      14             14     316-o
iJol YMaslha-Buwaish *          351    -       35,140          81148         61j   3        19l60~  31             9i115           -       L5  3n         69  1380
Buwaish-Al Riyan *               6j    -       6      10              0        6 30          66 37    31           681       6-6    185                   6     21Q
Al Riyan-Shuhair *               5              5       76     8      84     35      31     66'  314        31    65               -              5       ? 01 220
Sbuhair-Ghail Ba Wazir           3      - I3           147     -      47     17       -     1                -     1        3j             3,    88        -~  88
Shuhair-Ash Shihr *                                            81 7 l                                     ~    - 5j         -     -        - 11            -'18
A  Hibs-Al Matarah              -     -        -       3f    2    5          2       3      5S      1      3       4                              61      8     1
Hibs  -~~                 6      2       8     2~~1          ~                  ~ ~2       2                    1O7
!Al Ma'arah-Sah                  -      -       -                    7                3              2       3          I      <                   91             17
Sab-Ohuraf        16 1   -       16 ~~~~~6       1.277                  3      0       7      3       0       2<             2      58       7     65
Ohuraf-Tarim                   160.                    961    1197           20      10    30    20        10      30                             0~      21    321
GhrfSaywun-Sin                1102      -      7  10 2488         3  26      25      12     37  i25        12      37                     10     356      26    38
Shibam-SAlyQan                                  7      49      4     532     1       24 42   18            25      43       41:4                  960    53    149
Al Qatn-A.jlanieh                      -                ' 2                                 l  , t oi    91    1   iOj        2l                   0       3     53
Ajlanieh-Haura                1-        --              24     1125           6j    1         7    61               7        2    -2    381                3      hbl
Jol Mas'ha-ThailahAl Ulya  14 i   -            14      10      -      10      71    -                            I7                               3 3    1-   38
Thailah Al Ulya-Al Fardah       --     -        -        -     -   I          - 
AlkFardah-Rubab                  -l                          1    1                   -                              I 1     -     -               4         
Ruhab-Al Hajarain                -l             ~        0 -          10      2       -      21    2         -      2~                           111       -      4
Al Hajarain-Ha-ura               -      -       -        8)    -                      -1      -      5              5               2-                    89     20*
*Al Ri aiAlan                     -            1l                     l0o       -J   39                     4 0    40                        2120           9     209
2! The vehicles are: (i) midsized F)aropean car; (ii) FWDV: four-wheel drive vehicle; (iii) truck A with
load capacity of 5 tons and diesel engine; (iv) truck B with load capacity of 8 tons or 142 passengers
and diesel engine and (v) truck C with load capacity of 12 tons and diesel engine.
2/The road sections with asterisks form part of project road construction.
Source: Mission estimates
IMaYr 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJET
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Vehicle Operating Costs of Tycical Vehicles by Type of Road (YDA.000 km: exclusive of taxes)
.Depreciation                                                                  . .                                                                  Total
Typical          and Interest           .   Fuel                   Maintenance              Tires            Oil and Lubrication;  Wages and Salaries  I        Operating Costs
Vehicle!S  Traok- Ccbld avdobble,d Pae Tak|Cbie PaveB t'Tra-ok 5 Tobbledt  Paved  ".TrakCobid |PVX  robbidpv-iTakCbled gPv
Car       32.240   21.050  13-750  10.270   8.690   5.650   5-950   3.690   1-.770   3.000   1.600   0.960   0.490   0.270  iO.210   _       - _          51.950  35.300  22.34
BWTV      20.I00    12.5900  8.230  12.800  12.190  8.OOO  8.180   5.070   l.93O        0   2.760   1.640   0.700   0.380   0.300  2.320   1.940   1.160                   21.260
Truck A    44.700  27.7901 18.150  21.880  14.580  10.940  22.040 11.100 |5.2201 15.430   8.000  4.800   2.100   1.580   0.790   3.140   2.360   i.8904109.2o0  653410  41.790
Truck B    68.740! 41.060  25.580  26.250  16.410  11-930 1 27-590  13-790   6.2101 29.080  15.750   9.450   2.100   1.580   0.790   3.140   2-360   1.890|156.900  90-950 155.850
Track 0   78-180  149.140  32.090 1 28.760  18.100 |13.125  33.380  16.690   7.500f 70.910 |37.140  22.2901 2.450   1.840   0.920   3.140   2.360  1.89t 216.820 125.270  77.815
i/ The typical vehicles are: (i) mideized European oar with gasoline engine; (ii) FWDV: four-wheel drive vehiole with gasoline engine; (iii) track A with load oapacity of 5 tons and
diesel engine; (iv) truck B with load capacity of 8 tons or 42 passengers and diesel engine; and (v) truok C with load capacity of 12 tons and diesel engine.
On a level tangent, paved highway in good oondition, at average speeds of 80 km/h for cars and 72 km/h for YIDVa and trucks.
Source: Mission estimates
May 1975
a'C



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S I3EKOCRATIC REPUBLIC OP YEMEN
Average Characteristios of Typical Vehicles by Type of Road
t - Prioegf        -         Vehicle Life              Tire Life             Annual Vehicle     |    Fiel Consumption |
Typical      Price?    One Tire    Number of            (years)            (thousand km               Kilometr                   (km/gallon)
Typehicael   Pri)      One Tire       Tires    Track  CobbIed  Paved   Track  Cobbled  Paved   Track   obbled   aved   Track  Cobbled  Pave  /
ICar         1,100.000    12.000          4         5        6       8       16       30     50     9,000  12,0001 15,000   22.0       26.0   4o.o
IWvD        1,755.000    20.700          4         5        6       8       16       30     50    24,000  32,000 !40,000   18.0       21.0   32.0
Track A     3,389.000    36.000          6         5        6       8       14       27     45    20,000  28,000  35,000    9.6       14.4   19.2
Truck B     4,358.ooo    63.000          6         4        5,      7        13      24     40    20,000  28,000  35,000    8.0       12.8   17.6
2T ck C&    7,705.000    78.o000         lo     1   5, 1     6                                                                  .             16.0
2  The typioal vehicles are: (i) midsized European oar with gasoline engine; (ii) PWDV: four-wheel drive vehicle with gasoLine engine;
(iii) truck A with load capacity of 5 tons and diesel engine; (iv) truok B with load capacity of 8 tons or 42 passengers and diesel
engine; and (v) truck C with load capacity of 12 tons and diegel engine.
2/ CIF price, Aden.
Y On a level tangent, paved highways in good condition, at average speeds of 80 kmih for cars and 72 kmAh for FWDV'a and trucks.
Source: Mission estimates
MaY 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Construction and Maintenance Costs       (YD)
2/
Road Section                                Construction Costs                               Maintenance Costs -
Basic          Preliminaries and            Total
Construction Cost         Overheads         Construction Cost    Recurrent        Periodic3
Al Mukalla - Al Riyan             409,270               189,550               598,820               2,740        19,180
Al Riyan - Ash Shihr              411,380               192,510               603,890               3,900        27,300
Al Riyan - Al Qatn              4,511,020             1,732,510             6,243,530              24,800       173,600
Al Qatn - Saywun                   506,430              232,330               738,760               4,370        30,590
Total                 5,838,100            2,346,900             8,185,000              35,810       250,670
1/ Exclusive of taxes and contingencies.
2J Variations in traffic volume are not considered.
2/ Occurring in years 1983, 1988, and 1993.
Source:  Mission Estimates
May 1975



TABLE 19
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Rates of Traffic Growth and Return on Sections
of the Al Mukalla - Saywun Road
-Average Arual Growth Rates (%) of       .  
:  verae_ Economic  iFirst Year I
Local Traffic     Through Traffic    Return      Return  1/
Section                   1979(%9 I 91979 -89   1989-99 1
Al Mukalla- Al Riyan                             9         8       15-35        11.89
Al Qatn - Saywun and      See Beloa See Bel      8         7       14.60        11.89
.Al Riyan -Ash Shihi-           oi'          j   7         6       13.95        11.89
(358.1 km)                  i                   '' 
A Mu1qlla - Al Riyan        6         5         9         8          V13.15    l1.3h
(27.4 km)            5        4         8          7    1 12.35    i   11.34
4_ __3 __7_6_11_45 _ _11_3_
Al Riyan -Ash Shihr               .              9         8       23.55        22.41
(39.0 km)               5        4         8         7        22.65    1  22.41
AlRiyan-AlQatn           J   4        3         7          6    !21.85    1   22.41
Al  yan - Al Qatn                     I-T--                          155    I  -io.7
(248.O kn)              -        -         8         7        13.85        10.78
, A1 Qatn - Saywun   ___             _ -     a   7          6   _  13 25   _   10.78
AlAQatn -Saywun               87                 9   7    812.65                  9.42
i^ (43.7 krm)              7        6          8    '' 7         11-75    i 9.42
6        5         7         6       10.95          9.42
1/ The first year return is defined as the ratio of net first year benefits to
investment costs.
2J Entire proposed road construction.
Source: Mission estimates
May 1975



TABLE 20
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEDPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Results of Sensitivity Analyses
Assumptions
Cost of             Total            Economic
Construction        Benefits        Return (%)
Best Estimate       Best Estimate      15.35
Best Estimate       15% Increase      17.95
Best Estimate       15% Decrease       145
15% Increase        Best Estimate i  1b.55
15% Decrease        Best Estimate      18.35
Source: Mission estimates
May 1975



ANNEX A
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Previous Transport Projects
First Highway Project - Credit 240-YDR
Amount of Credit                     US$1.6 million
Date of Credit Agreement             April 21, 1971
Effective Date                       November 9, 1971
Closing Date                         March 31, 1975 1/
1.        The purpose of this project is to improve the operation and admin-
istration of the highway-related activities of the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW), and to prepare future high priority road construction projects. It
comprises feasibility studies of about 800 km of road and detailed engineering
of about 240 km; procurement of equipment and related spares for maintenance,
workshops, and communications equipment; technical assistance by consultants
to reorganize the MPW's highway related activities with emphasis on road
maintenance and workshop operations; and fellowships for MPW staff. The UNDP
participates in project financing by providing US$673,000 towards consulting
services and fellowships. The Bank is executing agency for the UNDP for this
part of the project.
2.        The project started in mid-1971 with commencement of technical
assistance. The Credit became effective in November 1971, and feasibility
studies and detailed engineering started shortly thereafter. Project execu-
tion has generally been satisfactory and the feasibility studies, detailed
engineering and technical assistance have been satisfactorily completed.
Delays have occurred in equipment procurement, largely due to the Government's
cumbersome purchasing system. A reorganization of MPW, recommended by the
technical assistance, was carried out in 1972, and cost accounting and equip-
ment pool systems are being set up as recommended by the consultants. Progress,
however, is hampered by the lack of skilled personnel, and the Government has
therefore requested, and been granted, an extension of the Credit closing
date to March 31, 1976, to permit full utilization of Credit funds for equip-
ment purchases.
1/   Extended from June 30, 1974.



ANNEX A
Page 2
Highway Engineering Credit - Credit S-12 YDR
Amount of Credit                     US$560,000
Date of Credit Agreement             November 17, 1972
Effective Date                       April 13, 1973
Closing Date                         March 31, 1975 1/
1.        By mid-1972, feasibility studies under the First Highway Project,
financed by Credit 240-YDR, had identified as the highest priority road
construction project the 320 km long Al Mukalla-Al Riyan-Saywun Road and the
35 km As Said-Ataq Road in the Fourth Governorate. Credit 240 YDR, however,
contained provision and funds for detailed engineering of only about 240 km.
The studies indicated that it would not be beneficial to reduce the length
of the project roads. The need was also identified for a branch road 'etween
Al Riyan and the important fishing town of Ash Shihr. Since other sources of
financing, such as the UNDP, was not available the Government requested that
the Association finance the detailed engineering cost in excess of that
provided for in Credit 240 YDR. In view of the delays (largely due to the
inexperience of available staff) in implementing the recommendations from
the First Highway Project for organizational improvements in the MPW, further
technical assistance to the MPW was also included.
2.        The project has progressed well.  Detailed engineering for the
Al Mukalla-Al Rian-Saywun and Al Riyan-Ash Shihr Roads were completed on
schedule in November 1973, and bids were received in July 1974. In early
1973, the final alignment of the Am Ayn-Al Mukalla road, under construction
with bilateral assistance from the People's Republic of China, was changed
to pass through Nagabah instead of Ataq; the As Said-Ataq road would therefore
no longer connect with this main road, and detailed engineering of the As
Said-Ataq road was eliminated from the project.
3.        Viak continued to provide technical assistance as needed to the
MPW until expiration of their contract in February 1974. Further technical
assistance is now being provided by experts from the German Democratic Re-
public, USSR and Hungary. The proposed Third Highway Project also provides
for the services of technical experts.
4.        The Credit has been fully disbursed and closed on March 31, 1975.
The first maturity payment is due in May 1976.
1/   Extended from June 30, 1974.
May 1975



APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Summaa of Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Government            Kuwait Fund               IDA                   Total
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total   IDA
l(a) Construction of Al
Mukalla - Saywun Road   0.92    -    0.92    4.46   3.28   7.74    4.44   3.26   7.70    9.82   6.54 16.36    47
l(b) Engineering Services for
supervislu    cone--    -              -      0.04    .13   0.17    0.03   0.13   0.16    0.07   0.26   0.33    47
tion with l(a)
2.  Procurement of Con-
struction Equipment and
Materials for l(a)       -       -     -       -      6.03   6.03    -       5.37   5.37    -    11.40  11.40    47
3.  Engineering and Economic
Studies of Nagabah-Al
Ayn Road                 -       -     -       -      -      -       0.11   0.44   0.55    0.11   0.44   0.55   100
b4.  Technical Assistance to MPW
including Fellowships    -       -     -       -      -      -       0.13   0.31   0.44    0.13   0.31   o.44   loo
5.  Procurement of Road Main-
tenance Eqpt. and Spares -       -     -              0.66   0.66   -       -       -       -      o.66   o.66     0
6.  Refinancing Cr. S12--YDR  -       -     -       -      -      -      -       0.53   0.53    -       0.53   o.53   100
Subtotal            0.92    -    0.92    4.50  10.10  14.60    4.71  10.04  14.75   10.13  20.14  30.27    49
7.  Contingency Allowance
(Physical)           0.08    -    0.08    0.39   0.31   0.70    0.40   0.35   0.75    0.87   o.66  1.53
Total Project
Cost                1.00    -    1.00    4.89  10.41  15.30    5.11  10.39  15.50   11.00  20.80  31.80   49
Price escalation contingencies are included in the base figures for items 1-5.
May 1975



ANNEX C
APPPAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YENEN
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                   Cumulative Disbursements
and End of Quarter                                       at end of Quarter
-(IJS$ tOOO Equivalent)
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                      2,305
December 31, 1975                                       3,390
March 31, 1976                                          5,325
June 30, 1976                                           7,260
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                      9,195
December 31, 1976                                      10,055
Yarch 31, 1977                                         10,765
June 30, 1977                                         11,475
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                     12,000
December 31, 1977                                      12,500
Yarch 31, 1978                                         13,000
June 30, 1978                                          13,500
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                   l1,000
December 31, 1978                                      lh,500
?arch 31, 1979                                        15,000
June 30, 1979                                         15,250
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                    15,500
Source:  Yission Estimates, January 1975
May 1975



ANNEX D
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Probability Analysis
1.        The probability analysis examines the effects of random variations
in the construction and maintenance costs and benefit streams on the overall
economic return. These variations occur separately in the costs of construc-
tion of the Al Mukalla-Al Riyan section, Al Riyan-Ash Shihr section, Al Riyan-
Al Qatn section and Al Qatn-Saywun section; the maintenance costs of each of
these sections; the benefits stemming from savings in maintenance costs of
existing cobbled sections and escarpments of each of these sections; the
benefits related to local traffic on the proposed road construction; and the
benefits related to through traffic on the proposed road construction. The
variations are expressed as a percentage departure from initial values.
2.        The random variations of all the construction and maintenance costs
lie in intervals of (-10, 0); (0, 10); (10, 15); and (15, 20) of a step func-
tion with associated probabilities of 0.23; 0.31; 0.23; and 0.23, respectively.
The cumulative probabilities of the variations of each of these cost streams
are not correlated.
3.        The random variations of all the benefit streams lie in intervals
of (-15, -10); (-10, 0); (0, 1); (1, 10) and (10, 15) of a step function with
associated probabilities of 0.15; 0.20; 0.30; 0.20; and 0.15, respectively.
The cumulative probabilities of the variations in the benefit streams related
to local and through traffic are fully correlated; all other cumulative prob-
abilities are not correlated.
4.        The above variations affecting the overall economic return and their
probabilities were fed into a computer which was then instructed to select at
random one outcome of each of the variables considered, allowing for realistic
restrictions for interdependeies in the variables. Given the selected out-
comes of all the variables, the corresponding economic returns were calculated.
This process was repeated until a large enough sample (1005 was obtained for
a close approximation to the actual probability distribution of the overall
economic rate of return.
5.        The results of the probability analysis are given in Table D-1.
This table shows the frequency distribution and cumulative probability dis-
tribution for the overall economic return. For instance, looking at the fifth
line of Columns of 1 and 2, one observes that in the sample of 100, there were
three overall rates of return with a value higher than or equal to 12.638 and



ANNEX D
Page 2
lower than 12.734. Looking at, for example, the second line of Columns 3 and
4, one sees that there is an 0.01 probability that the overall rate of return
is lower than 12.446, which is equivalent to saying that there is a 0.99 pro-
bability that the overall rate of return is higher than or equal to 12.446.
6.        The probabilities used in this analysis do not eliminate risk but
rather connect risk with the probabilities on which the evaluation is based.
It is evident that the probabilities are not generally objectively verifiable.
Nevertheless, the results of Table D-1 express the degree of confidence in
estimates through employment of probabilities which may supplement qualita-
tive judgements and give additional insight in the joint effects of various
factors having a significant degree of uncertainty.
May 1975



ANNEX D
Table D-1
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJBCT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEEN
Frequency Distribution and Cumulative Probability
Distribution for the Overall Economic Rate of Return
i                        2                       3 
Frequency that the         Overall Rate of        Probability that the   I
Overall Rate of            Return - Intervals    Overall Rate of Return I
'Return lies in the                _ _ _    _.     is lower than the Cor- 1
;Corresponding Interval    Higher than! lower   responding Value in         Overall Rate
!of the 2nd Column          or equal toi  than i the 4th Column             |of Return
1 O23-0 12.350                                 0.0!   12.35 
1  12.35o  12.346          0.01                12.446
0 O                12.446      12.542           O.01                12.542
0            I    12.542       12.638           0.01                12.638
3            1     12.638     12.734      _     0.04                12.734
12.734     12.830           0.05                12.830
2                  12.830   _ 12.926            0.07                12.9?6
O                  12.926     13.022            0.07                13.022
1                  13.022     13.118            O.oB                13.118
0                  13.118     13.214            0o.8                13.214
2            f     13.214     13.310            0.10                13.310
1                  13.310     13.406            0.11                13.406
3                  13.406     13.502            0.14                13.502
2                  13.502     13.598            0.16                13.598
3            1     13.598     13.694            0.19           1   13.694
6            !     13.694    13.790             0.25                13.790
2                  13.790     13.886            0.27                13.8B6
9                  13.886    13.982             0.36           i   13.982
2                  13.982     14.078            0.38                14.078
1  4               14.078    14.174             0.42                14.174
3                  14.174     I4.270            0.45                141.270
114.366               0.50               114.366
0                  14.366-   14.462             055                114.462
O                  14.462    14-5508            0.55           ; 14.558
3                  14.558     14.654            0.58                14.654
0                  14.654    14.750             o.58               114.750
1                  14.750    14.846             0.59              114.846
3                  14.846    14.942             o.62                14.942
1                  14.942    15.038             0.63                15,038
3                  15.038    15.134             0.66           I   15.134
4                  15.134    15.230             0.70                15.230
2                  15.230    15.326             0.72                15.326
3                  15.326    15.422             0.752               15.422
2                  15.422    15.518             0 79               115.518
2                  15.518     15.614            0.81                15.61h
3                  15.614    15.710             o.84                15.710
3                  15.710  j 15.806             0.87                15.806
2                  15.806  , 15.902             0.89                15.902
1   3              15.902    15.998             0.92                15.998
!   1              15.998    16.094             0.93                16.094
0                  16.094    16.190             0.93                16.190
1                  16.190    16.286             0  94               16.32862
1                  16.286    16.382             0.95                16.3827
1                  16.382    16.478             0.96                16.478
0                  16.478    16.574             0.96                16.574
i   1        1     16.574    16.670             0.97                16.670
0                  16.670    16.766             0.97 -              16.862
0                  16.766    16.862             0.97                16.862
1                  16.862    16.958             0.98                16.958
2      -           16.958    17.150             0.98                17.150
Source: Mission estimates
May.- 1975






APPRAtSAL OF
A SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works
|Mindster oW Puolic WVork,
=                                      Permanent Secletarv of  ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oprinn
-dy ~          ~ ~ e    fi.                            i.,..e                                                                                                                                                 .,kT ,p'
Road storan                       Survey  S Dasign                     Si |     Mtils                         Construction  S                    Psonnel Training                     Equipment Plmnning    -                    iork-hoP                              TranSport
Unit                               Division                                  0                                O sttiin                                                                    Sectlon                               Secion                               sectio
J Statistics     lDesign                               lMaitenance                                      Planning  Coordirgtion  |                          Aid
Section               _Section                                              Divisan                             Sotio |sectionI Str
Planning  Structures~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ctSn                                                                                                                                                    S.
Sokarties                                   S |  ection      |                                            |       ConstructIonl Sites           |Auh._                                                                                 Wrso 
-d Al Mukh11
4-|   Gonerorueei
Al Ghe75n
Mgr1975                                                                                                                                                                                                                          rlet
World ga-k-8679(3R)






IBRD- 11045R
JANUARY 1975
0
Oa
X ' t/ I - > z } & S ~~~~~~~~~2                                          co m   
@ ) 0 > \ \ \\B > ~~~~~............................. 
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~o o E   
o                         \      <   OE \\2/   t ]      ......  } @     <~~~~~~.............
0~~~~~~~~
CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~~~ ~~~~~~~                  -- \- o-Co                             F
t/                                                                                          C  (  /    j"ZX
-0,~ ~              0
e ~~~~~~~~/                                     -& W  D. 
Lx Z *
Ck3    o    w    m                                            !- Z- 
ZLLJ                                                         ' .
tu.
E              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
I-~~~~~~~-l
5~~~~~~~~~~t1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
ui ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~
tx ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                       ~ .         *\






tV vx- r 13 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .......
.. .  Cg  ''SS   \6'r-''  R t , \   '.'"""J,    ; / ' ' : 'S         (i\,',S,,',',.,'',"',,".,,,,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ......
L 9_z.
4/~~~~~~~- 
*N00L]~~~~rl > '1X<&              '1Zz
o I .e          ,  0     0
,   0      o O g         \ tE\y  >\   /e * f   _       / /  /.,2  .          / >    ( i  f
0 3                  t \\\ I \ M/ / g &_    - -X 'g  _/__  z    Af+A/
1tt  E :  . zSo  B   t-~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -;fr                           /q/r_r



