CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 560 YDR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 560 YDR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1975, between PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called
the Kuwait Fund) has agreed to join the Association in financing the Project and
for the purpose to make available to the Borrower for the same Project a loan
(hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in Kuwaiti dinar equivalent to fifteen
million three hundred thousand dollars ($15,300,000);
(C)   By a development credit agreement dated November 17, 1972,
(hereinafter called the First Development Credit Agreement), No. S-12 YDR,
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association granted to the Borrower
a credit (hereinafter called the First Credit) in various currencies equivalent to
five hundred and sixty thousand dollars ($560,000) to assist in financing detailed
highway engineering and technical services; and
WHEREAS the Association is prepared to refund the First Credit out of
the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective


﻿4
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "MPW" means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower; and
(b)   "Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement between
the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund for the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million five hundred thousand
dollars ($15,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall, on the Effective Date, withdraw from
the Credit Account and pay to itself, on behalf of the Borrower, the amount
required to refund the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with
the accrued service charge thereon, of the First Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods, works
or services (other than c(onsultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1980 or such other date
as shall be established by the Association. The Association shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on    each   February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1985, and ending February 15, 2025, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1995 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B
and C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants and
economic experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain in MPW for carrying
out Part A of the Project a separate unit with powers, responsibilities and staff
acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall employ competent managerial and technical
experts required to operate the unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
on the basis of terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association under an
agreement entered into with a management organization acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿6
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall, if the
Association shall so require, furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that its national highway systen
will be adequately maintained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering
and financial practices, and that the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required therefor will be provided, promptly as needed.


﻿7
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such steps as may be necessary to
ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using the national highway
system do not exceed the limits appropriate to the design standards of the highways.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take such steps as may be necessary to
introduce and implement appropriate highway design standards for the construction
and improvement of its national highway system.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section, the following
additional events are specified pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General
Conditions:
(i)         the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant
or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated, in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(ii)        any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by failure by the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement and (B) adequate funds for the Project
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower tinder this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the
following event is specified, namely, that any loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of any part of the Project shall have become due and payable prior to
the agreed maturity thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿8
(a)   That the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement has, or will concurrently with
this Agreement, become fully effective;
(b)  That the separate unit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
has been established; and
(c)  That the managerial and technical experts referred to in Section 3.04
of this Agreement have been employed.
Section 6.02. The date September 18, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 through
4.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 1 1.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works
Aden
People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen
Cable address:
MINWORKS
Aden
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdalla S. Ashtal
Authorizedl Representati)e
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice Presicen t
Europe, Middle East and Vorth Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Construction                                     47%
of Al Mukalla-
Saywun highway
(a)   Civil Works               7,700,000
(b)   Engineering                 1 60,000
services
(2)   Construction equip-             5,370,000        47%
ment and materials
(3)   Engineering and                  550,000         100%
economic studies
of the Negabah-
Ataq-Beihan high-
way
(4)  Technical assist-                 440,000         1 00%
ance to MPW includ-
ing fellowships
(5)   Refunding First                  530,000         100%
Credit
(6)   Unallocated                      750,000
TOTAL               15,500,000


﻿2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made (i) in accordance with Section 2.02(a) of this
Agreement and (ii) in respect of Category (1) on account of expenditures incurred
after December 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$60,000.
4.    Notwithstanding   the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any of the Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in those Categories, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, Without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    Construction, according to design standards described in the Annex I to
this Schedule, of about 358 kilometers of highway from Al Mukalla to
Saywun via Al Riyan and Al Qatn including a spur from Al Riyan to Ash
Shihr.
B.    Engineering and economic studies of the Nagabah-Ataq-Nisab-Beihan-Alain
highway (about 320 kilometers).
C.    Recruitment of experts and establishment of fellowships for training abroad,
as described in Annex 2 to this Schedule, as technical assistance to MPW.
D.    Purchase of mechanical equipment and spare parts, as described in Annex
3 to this Schedule, for the purpose of highway maintenance.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1979.


﻿13
ANNEX 1
Design Standards for Highways
included in Part A of the Project
Type of Terrain
Design Element                            Flat      Rolling      Mountainous
Design speed (km)                           80         50             30
Lane width (m)                               3          3              3
Lanes (No.)                                  2          2              2
Shoulder width (in)                          1          1               1
Minimum horizontal radii (m)               200        100             40
Maximum grade (%)                            4          9              13
Minimum sight distance (m)                 110         60             33
Passing sight distance (m)                 500        200             100
Maximum Single Axle Load (n tons)          10         10              10


﻿14
ANNEX 2
Experts and Fellowships included in
Part C of the Project
Experts             Fellowships
Department and Field of Assistance         No. Man-Years         No. Man-Years
Highway Study Unit
Transport Economics and Project
Evaluation                             2        4            4       3
Highway Department
Highway administration, traffic
analysis, planning and organi-
zation of road works                         -        -           3      2.5
Equipment Department
Cost accounting and control
systems for equipment
maintenance                                  -        -           3      2.5
TOTAL       2        4           10     8


﻿15
ANNEX 3
Mechanical Equipment and Spare Parts
included in Part D of the Project
Item                                               Number
Asphalt plant (25-30 ton/hour)                              1
Heavy motor graders                                         3
Loaders, 2-1/2 c.yd.                                        2
Tipper trucks 6 ton capacity                                6
Concrete mixers 14/10                                       2
Concrete mixers 10/7                                        2
Spare parts as appropriate for above items


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   Individual contracts for materials or equipment not exceeding the equivalent
of $15,000 and not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $300,000 shall
be procured on the basis of competitive procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
B.   Procurement Without Contracting
Construction shall be carried out by departmental labor of the Borrower.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
Review of awards and final contracts.
With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


