Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19239ZA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.4 MILLION
(US$28 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
PUBLIC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
PUBLIC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM
February 22, 2000
Capacity Building Unit
Country Department 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 22, 2000)
Currency Unit   =  ZMK
ZMK            =  US$.000347
US$1           =  ZMK2882.5
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL       Adaptable Program Lending              OECD       Organization for Economic Co-operation &
ASIP      Agricultural Sector Investment Program            Development
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy            OPD        Office of the Program Director
CIDA      Canadian International Development     PAC        Policy Analysis Co-ordination Division
Agency                                 PCD        Project Concept Document
CO        Cabinet Office                         PIF        Performance Improvement Fund
COI       Commission of Investigations           PMP        Performance Management Package
DFID      Department for International Development    PMS   Performance Management Systems
DPSCAP  Directorate for Public Service           PPF        Project Preparatory Facility
Capacity  Building                     PS         Permanent Secretary
DO        Development Objective                  PSC        Public Service Commission
EU        European Union                         PSCAP      Public Service Capacity Building Program
FILMUP  Financial and Legal Management           PSMD       Public Service Management Division
Upgrading Project                      PSRP       Public Service Reform Program
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                 PSU        Procurement Support Unit
GRZ       Government of the Republic of Zambia   SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
IDA       International Development Association  SIP        Sector Investment Program
IP        Implementation Progress                UK         United Kingdom
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan           UNDP       United Nations Development Program
MDD       Management Development Division        USAID      United States Agency for International
MOFED   Ministry of Finance and Economic                    Development
Development                            ZCCM       Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
MOLA    Ministry of Legal Affairs                ZIC        Zambia Investment Center
MTFF      Medium Term Financial Framework        ZICA       Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants
NIPA      National Institute of Public Administration    ZNTB  Zambia National Tender Board
NORAD   Norwegian Agency for International       ZPA        Zambia Privatization Agency
Development                            ZTB        Zambia National Tourist Board
OAG       Office of the Auditor General          TI         Transparency International
Vice President    Callisto E. .Madavo
Country Director    Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Sector Manager    Brian D. Levy
Team Leader    Harry C. Gamett



Zambia
Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
CONTENTS
A:  Program   Purpose and Phase 1 Development Objective .............................................................3
1. Program purpose and program phasing . ..................................................................3
2.   Phase I development objective ...................................................................3
3.   Key performance indicators ...................................................................3
B: Strategic Context ...................................................................4
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ............4
2.   Main  sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................S5
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the program   and strategic choices ................................. 10
4.   Performance triggers for subsequent loans ..................................................................   14
C: Project Description Summary ..................................................................                                                16
1.   Phase  I Components ..................................................................                                          16
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported during Phase  1 ....................................... 18
3.   Benefits and target population .................................................................. 19
4.   Institutional and  implementation arrangements ................................................................ 19
D:  Project Rationale ...................................................................                                                        23
1 .   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ................................................. 23
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ............ 23
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design .......................................................... 29
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................................... 31
5.   Value added of Bank support in this project ..................................................................   3 1
E: Summary Project Analysis ..................................................................                                                   32
1 .  Economic .................................................................. 32
2.   Financial ..................................................................                                                    33
3.   Technical ...................................................................                                                   33
4.   Institutional .................................................................. 33
5.   Social .................................................................. 33
6.   Environmental Assessment ..................................................................                                     34
7.   Participatory Approach ..................................................................                                       34
F:  Sustainability  and  Risks .................................................................. 35
1.   Sustainability ..................................................................                                               35
2.   Critical Risks ..................................................................                                               35
3.   Possible Controversial Aspects ..................................................................                               38
G: Main Loan Conditions ...................................................................                                                      38
1.   Effectiveness Conditions .................................................................. 38
2. Other.                     .............                 ..................................................... 39
H:  Readiness for Implementation .................................................................. 39
I:  Compliance with Bank Policies ..................................................................                                             39



Annex 1:  Project Design Summary ........................                                                                             40
Annex 2:  Detailed Program Description ........................                                                                       57
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs ........................                                                                            74
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary ........................                                                                      75
Annex 5: Financial Summary ........................                                                                                   78
Annex 5A: Financial Management Proposals .79
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .84
Table A        Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements ............................................................. 87
Table Al  Consultant Selection Arrangements ........................................................................... 88
Table B        Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review  .......................................... 89
Table C        Allocation of Loan Proceeds ........................................................... 9 1
Annex 7:         Project Processing Budget and Schedule ..................                            ............................... 92
Annex 8:    Documents in the Project File ................................................. 93
Annex 9:   Statement of Loans and Credits .................................................                                            94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .................................................                                                       95
Annex 11:   Letter of Development Policy from  the Government of Zambia .................                                    ............. 96
Annex 12: Performance Improvement Fund .................................................                                            103
Annex 13:   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements: .................................................  109
Map IBRD 26792R



Zambia
Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFCO2
Date: February 22, 2000                            Team Leader: Harry Garnett
Country Manager/Director: Phyllis Pomerantz        Sector Manager/Director: Brian Levy
Project ID: ZM-PE-50400                            Sector: Public Sector Management
Lending Instrument: APL                            Theme(s): Capacity Building for Public Service Reform
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Program  Diac Iafta
APL      -      udicative Finaning Plan -     :   -aE_d mpeni:nt-:--        -     Bor-- - --
._    _   _  _  _   - _  _ _          -                 -  0- :  P eriod  (B n   - Y   - _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IDA          Others    Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m      %     US$m    US$m            Date         Date
APL 1         28       46%      17        45          2001         2003        Government of Zambia
Loan!
Credit
APL 2         20       33%      26        46          2004         2008        Government of Zambia
Loan!
Credit
APL 3         13       13%      23        36          2009         2013        Govemment of Zambia
Loan!
Credit
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [ X ] Credit    I I Grant       1 ] Guarantee    [ J Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 28 million (Phase 1)
Proposed terms:           To be defined      [  Multicurrency      [  Single currency
[] Standard           [  Fixed           [] LIBOR-
Variable                                 based
Grace period (years):         10
Years to maturity:            40
Commitment fee:               0.5%
Service charge:               0.75%
Financing plan
Souwe                  L.cal -roig!                                                        Total
Government of Zambia                                     1                 0                1
IDA                                                     12                16               28
Donors                                                  10                 6               16
Total:                                                  23                22               45
Borrower: Government of the Republic of Zambia
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance and Economic Development, Cabinet Office, Lusaka, Zambia
OCS APL PAD Form: October 15, 1998



2
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):l
Annual                                 8           9           1 1
Cumulative                                 8          17           28
Project implementation period: 2001-2003
Expected effectiveness date: 2001                   Expected closing date: December 31, 2003
Implementing agency:  Cabinet Office
Contact person:  Professor B. Mweene, Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet, Finance and Economic Development
Address: Cabinet Office, Lusaka, Zambia
Tel: 260-1-251065             Fax: 260-1-252342             E-mail: pscap@zamnet.zm



3
A: Program Purpose and Phase 1 Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing (13-year APL): (see Annex 1)
The objective of Public Service Capacity Building Program (PSCAP) is to make public service delivery
processes more effective and efficient in order to facilitate economic growth and reduce poverty.
Since this transformation is expected to take almost a generation, PSCAP has been designed as tlhirteen-
year Adaptable Program Lending (APL). Phase 1, lasting three years, will put in place the basic financial
management, accountability, transparency, personnel and other systems, and begin to reform wages so
that key staff can be attracted, retained and motivated to provide the quality services their clients require,
and continue to rightsize and restructure the public service. In Phase 2, lasting an estimated five years, as
the Government's capacity is developed to manage expenditure on the basis of the Medium Term
Financial Framework, and the system piloted during Phase I are rolled out throughout the public service,
ministries, departments and agencies will begin to make significant improvements in service delivery with
support from the Performance Improvement Fund. Increasingly, service provision will be decentralized
to private providers, local government, and executive agencies, with greater community involvement.
The agencies of accountability, including the Office of the Auditor General, the Assembly's Public
Accounts Committee and the Zambia National Tender Board, and the judiciary will continue to be
strengthened and decentralized too. Phase 3, also lasting an estimated five years, will institutionalize
performance management and promote continuous improvement by establishing cycles through which
new systems of delivering the services needed to promote growth and alleviate poverty will be applied,
their impact monitored and the appropriate adjustments made to make them even more effective.
2. Phase 1 development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of Phase I is to design and begin to implement the critical system-wide reforms that will support
improved service delivery in the sectors. These reforms include rationalizing staffing, particularly in the core
civil service, reforming pay, introducing more effective management of payroll and establishment, replacing
the cash budget with the Medium Term Financial Framework, and improving financial management systems.
The first phase will also support progress being made under ongoing programs to restructure, decentralize, and
improve accountability and transparency in the public service.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1 for detailed indicators)
By the end of the program as a whole it will be possible to characterize the public service as follows:
*  Model for decentralization of service provision institutionalized
* Local government units more active in service provision
*  Final phase of privatization completed
*  Executive agencies established to provide services where private provision is not appropriate
*  Model for client-responsive, result-oriented leadership and management established throughout the
public service
*  Environment conducive to foreign and local investment established
*  Decentralized human resources management in place
*  Strong linkage established between policy process and resources: Medium Term Financial
Framework fully in place



4
* Most policies implemented as planned
* Public service fully sustained from budgetary resources
* Public servants routinely trained and retrained in skills needed for the result-oriented public service
* Capacity developed for private and public training institutes to deliver the training needed by public
servants
* Office of the Auditor General (OAG) fully autonomous and decentralized
* Effective and transparent public procurement system in place
* Commission of Investigation (COI) with well trained and equipped personnel
Objective measures of these improvements include:
* Public satisfaction with public service increased (to be established by baseline studies)
* Reduced public perception of corruption (as measured by planned World Bank sponsored surveys and
TI index)
* OAG audit reports show financial performance improved (to be established through baseline studies)
* 70 per cent of agencies operating at levels of performance in line with objectives agreed under
national evaluation system and national budget (to be established).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 19582-ZA Date of latest CAS: October 7, 1999
The project is consistent with Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy discussed by the Executive
Directors by on October 7, 1999.
PSCAP has been designed to support the CAS priorities. "Governance" is identified as one of three "key
strategic areas" in the CAS. Under that heading, the CAS priorities are:
T Improving transparency and accountability
* Strengthening public sector efficiency and capacity
* Fostering local government and decentralization
The Government's own development principles and priorities as stated in the CDF/CAS process mirror
these priorities: accountability and good governance, local capacity building, and public service capacity
building. PSCAP addresses all three of the CAS govemance priorities. Through improved governance,
the structures and processes of service delivery will be transformed such that citizens and businesses
receive the public services they need and can afford.
The following performance indicators adopted for Phase 1 of PSCAP are the program matrix monitoring
indicators in the latest CAS:
* Decrease in level of perception of corruption (as measured by TI)
* Increased funding for independent commissions
* Procurement units in all ministries
* More well-qualified accountants in government
* Reduction in numbers of public sector employees



5
*  Decompression of public sector salary levels
*  Introduction of new affordable pensions system
*  Introduction of monitoring systems to measure improvements in service delivery
*  Finalization of national decentralization policy framework
PSCAP also supports other CAS development objectives through HIV/AIDS, gender, and public
participation subcomponents and the system-wide improvements PSCAP will introduce to assist the
implementation of sector programs.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Much remains to be done to achieve the objectives of the reforms the Government began in the early
1990s. Although progress has been made in reforming the economy and in preparing plans to restructure
the public service, very little institutional change has actually taken place. However, in the recent past,
the Government has begun to address the issue of the size of the public service and the quality of services
it delivers. The Government's strategy, as set out in its PSCAP Strategy and Action Plan, is, over a long
period to decentralize service provision and change the very behavior of public and private providers of
public services so that they aim to deliver results rather than enforce cumbersome procedures.
Government began a radical social and economic reform process in the early 1990s. Economic
liberalization included removal of subsidies, the privatization ofparastatal companies, and redefinition of
the role of the public service from that of controlling the overall economy to that of providing an enabling
environment for increased participation of the private sector and individuals in the economic and social
development of the country. The redefinition of the role of the public service was based, in part, on the
realization that service delivery by the public service, in general, and the Civil Service, in particular, had
deteriorated. As a result of a bloated Civil Service and weak internal controls, the Government budget
was and still is unable to sustain competitive salaries and wages. Although personal emoluments
consume about one third of the nation's domestic budget, Civil Servants' salaries have remained low.
This has resulted in a de-motivated workforce leading to poor performance and delivery of services to the
people of Zambia. As a trade unionist said during the current CAS process, "The country has accepted
what the country has gone through [to promote liberalization] but the benefits have not diffused to the
average citizen."
Participants in the CAS process asked for improvements in government transparency, more dialogue
among government, the private sector, NGOs and donors, building capacity within the public service,
and improved decentralization efforts.
The Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) launched by the President of the Republic of Zambia in 1993
primarily aimed at improving the quality, delivery, efficiency and effectiveness of public services. In
order to achieve this, the program has three main components, namely:
*  Restructuring of the public service: This involves reviewing functions, structures and establishments
of ministries and institutions to develop a leaner and more efficient public service;
*  Management and human resources improvement: This involves the introduction of performance
management systems of accountability and developing skills that will enable senior managers to
effectively manage the public service; and
* Decentralization and strengthening of local government: This includes decentralizing some
Government functions and operations from the center to the provinces and districts to enhance service
delivery at the local level.



6
Implementation efforts have been neither comprehensive nor sustained over the years. A number of
serious problems remain to be addressed:
*  The provision of services has been highly centralized. Until retrenchment began, civil servants
represented over I per cent of the population (the average for Africa is I per cent). With support
from PSCAP, the current establishment of about 115,000 civil servants, most involved in the direct
provision of services, will be reduced to a core of about 10,000 to 12,000 over 14 years, with service
provision decentralized to executive agencies, the private sector and local government
*  Leadership within the public service is highly centralized, too. Decision-making is top-down,
authoritative, and secretive. Managers lack strategic management skills. PSCAP will help to
institutionalize strategic management, including greater openness, transparency and participation.
*  Zambia can no longer rely on copper to pay for public services. Zambia's revenue mobilization be
African standards is high, 19 per cent of GDP (compared with 12 per cent for Tanzania, for example),
but much of that revenue still comes from a single source, copper. However, the relative value of that
source is declining. Mining's share of GDP was 50 per cent in 1970; it is now 11 per cent. Copper
income per person was $220 in 1970; it is now about $35 per person PSCAP will support the
increasing commercialization of public service provision, reducing budgetary subventions, and
compelling more resource mobilization by the providers of services.
*  Less than 50 per cent of the decisions made by the Cabinet are implemented as planned; many
decisions are not implemented at all. The principal reason is that resources are not available to
implement the decision, demonstrating the weak linkage between policy and resources. One of the
principal thrusts of PSCAP is to improve financial management and forge a strong linkage between
policy and resources through the MTFF.
*  Civil service wages are low and compressed. Wage levels are generally one-third the level in the
private sector (which in many cases pays better non-wage benefits too). The ratio of a PS's salary to
that of the lowest grade is 5:1, one of the highest degrees of compression in Africa (although,PSs and
some other senior staff receive substantial non-monetary benefits). The principal objective of Phase 1
of PSCAP is to generate the funds needed to decompress salaries by continuing the retrenchment and
reducing budgetary subventions to hived off service providers.
*  Recruitment is only loosely linked to merit; promotion is often by seniority; career progression is
unplanned; pay is not related to performance and the staff appraisal system is cumbersome. PSCAP
will support the establishment of a meritocratic civil service where what matters most is performance
against agreed results.
*  There is no effective system of sanctions for misappropriation and misapplication of public resources.
PSCAP will support strengthening the agencies of accountability: the Auditors General's Office and
the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee. PSCAP will also establish capacity to train
public accountants.
In setting out to address these problems, the Government will build upon progress made in a
number of areas in recent years:
*  the retrenchment needed to implement restructuring plans has begun: by the end of 1999 the size of
the civil service will have fallen from 137,000 to 112,000
*  with USAID support, a new policy formulation and implementation process is in place, documented
in the first new Cabinet Handbook written since 1964



7
*  an interim establishment control system is in place which is helping to bring wage costs under
control; with DFID support, a new permanent system will shortly be put in place
*  with UNDP support, restructuring plans have been prepared for all ministries
*  with IrishAid support, strengthened local government is being piloted in one town
*  substantial decentralization has been undertaken in the health sector, with health boards in every
district; similar decentralization is planned for education
*  GRZ has agreed that the Civil Service Pensions Fund will be reformed to make it more sustainable
*  with IrishAid support, performance management is being piloted in six Ministries
*  the EU is providing support to the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development to improve the
fiscal management for a more results-oriented public service
*  under IDA-supported FILMUP, national frameworks have been established that will build the legal
and accounting capacity required to improve transparency and accountability
*  With CIDA funding, procurement officers are being trained
*  GRZ has set up a broad-based Steering Committee to guide PSRP and PSCAP
* GRZ has set up a management structure for PSCAP at the center of Government: within the office of
the Secretary to the Cabinet and the Head of the Civil Service, who reports to the President.
PSCAP will support the Government's Strategy and Action Plan to transform the provision of
public services in the 21st Century. To quote the CAS: "The Government's medium-term objective is
to manage the economy more effectively and achieve sustained growth in order to eliminate poverty in the
long run."   While an underlying theme of the Government's program is that widespread poverty
alleviation in Zambia in the long run depends on the expansion and vibrancy of the private sector, the
public sector has a key role to play in the effort. For example, the health and education levels of a
population, along with a supportive policy environment, relate directly to the country's long-term private
sector development potential. But the effective and efficient delivery of health, education, and policy-
development services depends on a broad, cross-cutting and well-functioning set of government
institutions and systems. The Government's Public Service Reform Program (PSRP), and PSCAP, set
out to strengthen the very public service delivery processes whose efficiency directly impacts the success
of other sectoral development efforts, including: budgeting, financial management, human resource
management, policy development and implementation, accountability, and transparency.
GRZ has prepared a vision for the public service that contrasts the public service today with the
characteristics of public service provision beyond 2010 needed to promote growth and alleviate poverty.
This vision of a more pluralist, decentralized and result-oriented public service is summarized in Table 1.
GRZ envisions a small core of 10-12,000 civil servants responsible for the managing public resources,
formulating policy and monitoring policy implementation and service delivery.
The transformation in service delivery will take many years. As shown in Figure 1, building upon
the privatization and retrenchment that has taken place, GRZ will first design and pilot better incentives in
the form of wages, systems of accountability and transparency, financial management and resource
allocation; then role out these systems throughout the public service, at the same time substantially
decentralizing service provision; and then move into a continuous, quality improvement mode for all
services.



8
Table 1
Transforming Public Services
Characteristics of
Public Service                     Now                      2010 and Beyond
Provision of services        By sector ministries            By private sectoi, local
government, executive
agencies, communities
Attitudes                    Follow rules                    Deliver results
Defer to those above            Take responsibility
Suppress dissent               Encourage debate
Civil society                Intermittent consultation       Strong input into policy
dialogue
Opponent                        Partner
Employer                     All staff employed by national    Very few in civil service
services                        cadre; almost ail employed by
local government, private
sector and executive agencies
Budgets                      Cash budget                     Results budget
Unpredictable flows             Predictable flows
Annual allocation              MTFF
Central control over detail     Substantial local control over
line items
Employment status            Permanent                       Time specific contracts linked
to performance
Meritocracy                  Promotion by seniority          Promotion by results
Compressed salaries             Salaries reflect market value
Policy                       Policies not implemented        Strong policy/resources
because lack of resources       (MTFF) linkage
Leadership                   Highly centralized decision-    Decentralized assumption of
making                          responsibilities
Accountability               Public accounts late            Public accounts current
Few civil servants ever         Prosecutions whenever
prosecuted                      necessary
Weak parliamentary review of    Strengthened parliamentary
reports                         committees
Procurement skills limited and    Procurement capacity
centralized                     throughout the public service



9
Figure 1: Long-Term Perspective on Public Service Reform in Zambia
Phase 3
Continuous
improvement
model applied to
Phase 2                          imnrove services
Performance management
systems rolled out;
Phase 1                       services decentralized and
improved through PIF
Financial, payroll,
Improving                                                                       establishment,
efficiency &                                                                    accountability systems
effectiveness                                                                   designed and piloted
of source
delivery
I             ................................... .......................... ................................
Retrenchment                             W           f
t Wage Re orm ~~~~~~~.................... . . . . . .   ..... . . . . . .. . .   . .  .. . . . . . . . .  .........
Restructuring
plans prepared;
policy system
reformed
L -------------------------  
1993                       1998                       2000                                      2004                                       2009                     2014
4                                                  _ 



10
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the program and strategic choices:
PSCAP will address the very same issues that will be addressed by the Government's strategy to
transform service delivery. Following discussions with key stakeholders in the reform of the public
service at the beginning of the program preparation process, GRZ PSCAP Technical Committee identified
four critical sector issues to be addressed in the next phase of the Public Service Reform Program. The
Committee then constructed an objective tree for PSCAP based upon results that will need to be achieved
to resolve-those issues. The four principal issues are as follows:
(i) The need to develop more effective leadership and management of a changing public service.
One of the findings of the "issues" study was that senior managers do not think strategically. Managers
can define the missions of their ministries and departments but they tend not to be able to think through
what needs to be done to implement those missions. In addition, it was found that central management of
the various public service reform initiatives is weak: for example, there was very little guidance from the
managers of the public service as a whole for the quite dramatic reforms in the administration of health.
In many instances, sectoral management capacity is not strong enough to manage major transformations
of the sector; agriculture is another case in point. Effective management is hampered by a lack of
monetary incentives and a focus on delivering inputs rather than results. The study found that financial
managers tended to focus on cash management with little attention to strategic choices in the allocation of
scarce public resources. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development itself identified the need to
have more, better-qualified accountants and budgetary specialists. Without a truly independent, well-
staffed and equipped Office of the Auditor-General with direct representation in all the provinces, there
has been slow publication of accounts and weak accountability in the public service. The administration
of law is handicapped by a lack of courthouses and poorly trained and equipped court staff. Local and
foreign investment is hampered by excessive regulation, irregular application of the regulation and limited
promotional activities to build the image of the country.
(ii) The need to improve the capacity to formulate, analyze and implement policies. GRZ believes,
along with many other modernizing governments, that the core of the civil service should focus not on
service delivery but on the formulation and implementation of policy, including the allocation of
resources. GRZ has already introduced a new process under which there is better coordination in the
preparation of policies and the Cabinet is provided with better information upon which to base its
decisions. However, monitoring the implementation and impact of policies is weak to non-existent and
few civil servants have been trained in the skills needed to develop policy. Also, since the majority of
policies are prepared without reference to priorities established in the form of a Medium Term
Expenditure Framework, many policies cannot be implemented as planned.
(iii) The need to have an affordable as well as effective public service. "Budget overruns, mounting
arrears, and high levels of wasteful expenditures compound the already chronic liquidity problems of
GRZ" (Source: the GRZ Technical Committee's December 1998, Development Plan for the Payroll
Management and Establishment Control Project). Although progress was made in reducing overruns
from 1994 to 1996 (from 18 to 14 per cent), the overrun rose to 29 per cent in 1997. Personnel
Emoluments (PEs) present a particular problem. The objective is to have PEs at 25 per cent of the
national budget or 4 per cent of GDP, the African average. However the PEs rose from, 22 per cent of
total Government domestic revenue in 1994 to 43 per cent in 1997. Since then GRZ has reduced the size
of the public service by about 30,000 staff, mainly through retrenching employees, voluntary separations,
and hiving off. A further reduction of 7,000 staff was planned for 1999. One reason why it is important
to reduce the size of the public service is that it will release the resources needed to increase salaries.
Increased salary levels will in turn make it possible to recruit, retain and promote staff with scarce
managerial and professional skills. Along with rightsizing, there is need to divest government services
that can be better supplied by the private sector or by public agencies on the basis of performance
contracts.



I1
Partly because of the budgetary problems, but also to promote a more effective delivery of services, GRZ
has over the past six years set out to restructure central government. The Cabinet Office led the
preparation of restructuring plans by all ministries covering all core, central functions (teachers, health
workers and police were not included). Although each of the plans has been approved by the Cabinet, it
was not possible to implement the plans until recently because of a lack of resources to fund the
retrenchment envisaged under the plans. Although further work will be carried out under PSCAP to
define the role of the core civil service, the GRZ is planning to hive off implementation activities of the
public service to executive agencies or to privatize the functions, leaving the core to focus on policy and
fiscal management. Four agencies are already in the process of being hived off: the National Institute
for Public Administration, the Department for National Parks and Wildlife Services, the Department of
Technical Education and Vocational Training , and the Registry of Companies, Patents, Trade Marks, and
Business Names.
It is planned that the hiving off will itself help to promote budgetary sustainability. Staff now working in
the departments to be hived off will be released from their civil service jobs and will have to apply for
jobs with the new agency. Since budgetary support for the agencies will be less than for the originating
department, it is expected that total staffing will fall, unless the agencies can raise more revenue on their
own.
In addition to support for the management and implementation of the rightsizing itself, PSCAP will help
the GRZ to develop the capacity to establish a governance framework for the executive agencies and
privatized services. This framework will define the relationship between central government and the
agencies, including penalties on either party for failure to deliver on its part of the performance contract.
(iv) The need to improve capacity at the local level to make decisions and deliver services. Three
types of decentralization are covered by the Government's policy: separating policy from implementation
through the hiving off referred to above (this is already underway, most notably in the health sector);
deconcentrating functions from central ministries to provincial and local government (the process has just
started under ASIP); and strengthening of local government (a recent Bank's sector study shows local
government to be very weak). The objective of each form of decentralization is to make the delivery of
service more sensitive to what people want and can afford to pay for. Substantial decentralization is
taking place: steps to make local government more effective are being piloted in Kitwe; some local
authorities are setting up executive agencies for supplying water and sanitation services; under the health
reforms, autonomous health boards are being set up in every district; similar arrangements are planned
for education; the provision of agricultural services is also being decentralized; some implementation
activities of government are being hived off, including some training and environmental services.
PSCAP's support to PSRP will aim to bring coherence to these and other planned decentralization
actions.
The objective tree for the program, which links the results or outputs to be achieved to the development
objectives and is the basis for the logical framework in Annex 1, is shown in Figure 2. PSCAP has been
designed to have program components corresponding to each of the results.



12
Figure 2:  Framework for Public Service Capacity Building Program
Service delivery structures
and processes enablePrga                                   A L
citizens and businesses to                  Program  (APL)
receive the public services           Development Objective
they need and can afford
Implementation of key
system-wide public                        Project (Phase 1)
service reforms                    Development Objectives
.4    1                                                                      OUPU 13 I :I 
:3   4    OUTPUT 1:                        OUTPUT 2                           F                          OOUTPUT 5
R3 ight-Sizing and                  Policy and Public                  Management,               Capacity of Judicial               Decentralization
0        Pay Reform of      [                 Service                       conabil  &                and L     S                       and Participatory
r;       Public Service                   Management                      Accountability, &          and Legal Systems                    Development
o        Implemented                         Improved                      Transparency                    Improved                        Supported
2                                                                             Improved
w      Rightszn3                            Public                              Ao:                      Judcial &                     E  zaten &
|  Refo&a                                    Service                              .                         Legal                         Posipaory
Reform                   ~~~~~~Mgmt                         -rns                                                      Olop-tv



13
By achieving these five sets of results, PSCA-P will support institutional reforms in sectors such as
education, health and agriculture. PSCAP focuses on the system-wide institutional reforms that are
needed to help the CAS, the SIPS and the adjustment operations achieve their intended result, as
discussed below.
One of the premises of PSCAP is that it is important to reform the structures and processes in the core of
the civil service - the aim of many of the components of this program. This is true even when the
ultimate objective is to encourage the delivery of public services not by central, civil service agencies but
by local government, the private sector, public-private partnerships, and the communities themselves.
Reform of the core is a necessary condition for sustainable improvements in the delivery of many critical
services. Certain key actions will have to be taken across all sectors for sector- or community-based
reform programs to meet their goals, even if the aim of those programs is to decentralize the delivery of
services.
In particular PSCAP has an important role to play in facilitating the success of the SIPs. Under the
rightsizing component, the core civil service will be reduced to those staff in the sector ministries needed
to formulate policy and manage contracts with service providers, including monitoring the provision of
public services by decentralized service providers. PSCAP will assist in establishing better linkages
between service providers and their clients. This will partly be a matter of improving accountability and
transparency. For example, PSCAP's capacity building support to Office of Auditor General (OAG) and
the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) will improve the mechanisms of accountability and
transparency, helping to hold service providers accountable for attaining agreed public service provision
standards. Each SIP seeks to improve policy. The policy management component will upgrade the
capacity of the remaining core civil service in the sectors to formulate policy and monitor its
implementation. The SIPs also require a salary structure that will motivate staff appropriately. One of
the principal objectives of the first phase is to begin to put in place a wages structure that will attract,
retain and motivate civil servants to perform their new role. Additional investment is planned under all
the SIPs. However, investment levels have to be sustainable and resources have to be available from
local sources to maintain any new infrastructure. PSCAP's financial management component will
provide capacity building support to allocate scarce resources more systematically and to make sure that
agreed budgets flow to service providers more predictably.
The Basic Education Subsector Investment Program (BESSIP) is an example of a newly approved
program that will require support from PSCAP. To achieve its goal of quality basic education for all, the
sector needs to improve management, increase compensation to teachers, build capacity, decentralize,
improve equity, and provide better materials. These are all issues that PSCAP seeks to address in the
system as a whole. In particular, during Phase 1, PSCAP will have to work to create the resources needed
to improve and decompress salaries. Also, through its financial management component, PSCAP will
put in place mechanisms that will resolve conflicts between competing demands for resources: how much
should be allocated to increasing the salaries of manager; how much to attract and retain more teachers;
how much for doctors and nurses; and how much for more police. ASIP too is aiming for policy and
institutional improvements (its first component) that will require support from PSCAP.
PSCAP has similar linkages to other programs. PSCAP is an important component of the achievement of
GRZ's $445 million National Capacity Building Program for Governance. GRZ's April 1999 paper that
outlines this program drew upon the GRZ's 1998 PSCAP Strategy and Action Plan. PSCAP's intended
results are among the intended results in the Governance Program's framework. This is particularly true
of the capacity building planned for the Cabinet Office, Ministry of Finance and Economic Development,
Zambia National Tender Board, and the Auditor General's Office.
PSCAP also has strong linkages to the macroeconomic reform programs. For example, the retrenchment
of the daily employees, the voluntary separations program, and the first phase of the hiving off, which are



14
linked to PSCAP's righsizing component, have been supported by the Bank's and other donors'
adjustment operations. PSCAP's focus on rightsizing to create an affordable yet effective public service
and on improving fiscal and financial management will help to reduce the budget deficit and keep
inflation under control. Complementary activities to reform civil service pensions and fiscal management
will be undertaken through the Bank's next adjustment operation and PSCAP. Most importantly, PSCAP
will develop the capacity of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development to achieve and sustain
the transition from the cash budget to the Medium Term Financial Framework. PSCAP will therefore
provide capacity building support for the key objective of the Fiscal Sustainability Credit now under
preparation.
The program will support GRZ's decentralization policy. PSCAP's decentralization theme
includes moving service delivery jobs out of the core civil service into executive agencies, the
private sector and to local government. Specific support to develop local government capacity
could be provided once GRZ has decided on the extent to whom responsibilities for service
delivery will be devolved to local authorities. This would come under later phases of PSCAP or
through a separate local government reform program.
4. Performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The milestones for the first and second phase of the project that will trigger the transition to the
subsequent phases of the project are summarized in Table 2.



15
Table 2: Triggers to Phases 2 and 3
gr  rhSW ~Stigh  taeEdo  h2  Imrvli Prm~nance
Pay Reform                                    Public Management
Substantial progress made in implementing the  Rationalized roles, functions and structures for
monetization of benefits available to civil servants   Ministries and Agencies fully implemented
Fixed term contracts negotiated with all Permanent  Establishment and payroll management decentralized
Secretaries
Salaries of key technical and professional staff  All Ministries report significant service
increased as laid out in the Medium Term Pay  improvements aided by access to Performance
Strategy (in preparation)                     Improvement Fund
Establishment and payroll control             Pay Reform
Effective payroll and establishment control systems  Salary reform completed, consistent with ability of
in place, with no ghost workers, no ghost     the public service to recruit and retain staff in critical
allowances and no retrenched staff returning to the  professional and technical posts achieved
civil service
Financial management and accountability
Financial and policy management
Performance budgeting in place in all Ministries in
Medium Term Financial Framework will replace    accordance with internationally accepted standards,
Cash Budget as the basis for disbursements in the    such as International Federation of Accountants
fiscal year that includes the final year of the project  Guidelines, and linked to MTFF
(Phase 1)
Auditor-General reporting to National Assembly on
All proposals with financial implications made to   performance against MTFF targets
Cabinet over the past year cleared by the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development for       Procurement Units in all Ministries and Provinces
concurrence with the budgets agreed under the
Medium Term Financial Framework               Policy management
Financial management and accountability       GRZ prepares annual report on impacts of policies
2001 end-of-year financial statements for the seven  Transparency and accountability
ministries piloting the Performance Improvement   All Ministries have published performance targets
Fund
ready for review by Auditor-General within six  Civil society involved in setting all targets
months



16
There will be an independent evaluation of the achievement of the triggers six months before the
end of Phase 1. The beginning of Phase 2 would be delayed until the triggers have been
achieved, unless it can be shown that the failure to achieve the trigger was caused by events
beyond the control of the program. As part of the preparation of the Workplan for Phase 2, the
triggers listed above will be reviewed and, if necessary, replaced with others more appropriate
for the adjustments made to the program under the Adaptable Program Credit. However, if there
has been serious underachievement of the triggers, subsequent phases will be reconsidered.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Phase 1 Components: (see Annex 2 for detailed descriptions and Annex 3 for a cost breakdown)
Each of PSCAP's five components builds upon past and ongoing institutional reforms that aim to
establish a more effective, efficient and decentralized provision of public services. IDA will partially
finance most of the activities under each component.
*  Rightsizing and Pay Reform
*  Policy and Public Service Management
*  Financial Management, Accountability and Transparency
*  Judicial and Legal
*  Decentralization
(i) Right-sizing and Pay Reform: The principal objective of this component is to bring about the
restructuring necessary to rationalize the functions of government and to generate the financial resources
needed to begin to create the pay incentives required to motivate staff. Phase I will build upon progress
made under the UNDP-supported restructuring of ministries and the retrenchment carried out over the
past year and assist Govemment in rationalizing the structure and size of the Public Service. It is
expected that the establishment will have been reduced from 136,000 in June 1997 to about 112,000 by
the end of 1999. The main activities to be carried out under this component would be: (i) separation of
excess and redundant staff; (ii); reform pay through monetization, iii) negotiating performance contracts
for PSs and eventually all staff; (iv) putting in place payroll and establishment control systems; (v)
enhancing social safety net programs for retrenched civil servants; (vi) restructuring of the public service
to meet the economic growth and poverty alleviation needs of businesses and citizens; (vii) enhancing
capacity of the PSC to undertake selection and placement of appropriate personnel in the restructured
Ministries on the basis of need and merit; (viii) identifying and divesting non-core functions; and (ix)
increasing salaries, especially the salaries of key technical and professional staff. The Management
Development Division in the Cabinet Office will lead this component.
(ii) Policy and Public Service Management: The principal objectives of this component are to
establish policy formulation and performance monitoring as the focus of the core of government and to
develop the capacity of the core to manage the transformation of the public service to meet PSCAP's
long term purpose, more efficient and effective delivery of public services.
* PSCAP will continue the work begun with IrishAid support and will assist Govemment Ministries
and other institutions to establish a results-oriented, professional and well-motivated public service.
The specific activities to be undertaken under this component in Phase 1 will be to: (i) enhance the
performance of priority services through a Performance Improvement Fund (see Annex 12) and a
"quick wins" program; (ii) create a gender-sensitive public service; (iii) introduce a results-oriented
public service; (iv) train staff in strategic management;. (v) and assess the impact of AIDS on the
public service and prepare plans to promote AIDS prevention within the public service.



17
* PSCAP will also continue the capacity building and process reform started under USAID funding, by
supporting activities that will improve the capacity to formulate, analyze and co-ordinate policies.
Critical elements of this component include: (i) activation of a Policy-Budget Linkages Task Force;
(ii) training staff in MOLA and MOFED to analyze proposed policies; (iii) designing and piloting an
in-service policy-oriented training program; (iv) revising the classification scheme for policy-related
documents; (v) introducing mechanisms for public debate on policies and policy proposals; (vi)
establishing a computer-based cabinet documentation unit; and (vii) designing and piloting a policy
monitoring system. The Cabinet Office's Policy Analysis and Coordination Division (PAC) will
lead this component, with MOLA and MOFED playing supporting roles.
(iii) Financial Management, Accountability and Transparency: The two principal objectives of this
component are to develop the capacity to allocate and spend public resources in accordance with the
iVledium Term Financial Framework and to improve the accountability of public servants to spend and
deliver services in accordance with the priorities established in the MTFF. This component will build
capacity in MOFED, OAG, ZNTB, and the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee, a set of
agencies that will have to work together to achieve these objectives.
*  The Financial Management sub-component sets out to implement many of the recommendations
made in the Bank's recent Financial Management Sector Study. It builds upon progress made under a
number of donor supported programs, including the EU's. PSCAP will put in place mechanisms that
would ensure that: (i) financial resources are efficiently, effectively and economically acquired,
allocated and utilized, including the introduction of the Medium Term Financial Framework to the
budgetary process; (ii) capacity of ZICA and other training institutions is enhanced; (iii) financial
management policies procedures, and processes are revised; and (iv) capacity developed in M\OFED
to monitor and supervise revenue collection and allocation, and expenditure processes. All these
activities would be spearheaded by MOFED.
-  The Accountability and Transparency sub-component, which will be implemented by OAG and
ZNTB, follows up on the Bank-supported FILMUP Project. These activities are referred to in
GRZ's "National Capacity Building Programme for Good Governance." The activities will include:
(i) enhancing the independence of the Office of the Auditor General; (ii) improving the capacity of
the Office of the Auditor General; (iii) decentralizing the operations of the Office of the Auditor
General; and (iv) developing and/or strengthening mechanisms that would ensure that all public
institutions comply with procurement regulations and procedures.
*  PSCAP will also augment the capacity of the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee to
review and recommend action on reports from the OAG through training and giving the Committee
access to specialist assistance.
(iv) Judicial and Legal: The principal objectives of this component are to improve the capacity of GRZ
to undertake its legislative agenda and to carry out urgent physical and human capacity building in the
Judiciary. The activities under this component are predominantly a continuation of those initiated under
the Financial and Legal Management upgrading Project (FILMUP, IDA Cr. 2535ZA) which is now
coming to a close. These include (i) training staff in MOLA and the Judiciary, and developing where
necessary, procedures/systems in MOLA and line ministries; (ii) identifying and reviewing current laws
and legislation impacting on accountability and transparency; (iii) training judges and judiciary staff;
and (iv) rehabilitating three courthouses.
(v) Decentralization: The principal purpose of this component is to prepare for the implementation of
the GRZ's Decentralization Policy. The Policy has not yet been agreed by the Cabinet and the National
Assembly. PSCAP will provide a bridge between the policy once it is announced and support a number



18
of donors, including the Bank, are planning to strengthen local govemment.PSCAP's will assist in the
preparation of a strategy for the implementation of the Policy. This will establishing a fund for an
organization outside Govemment, such as a university-based research institute, to carry out surveys of the
quality of service delivery to various segments of the population, including the poor, disadvantaged,
residents of rural areas and small businesses. These surveys will give "voice" those not normally
involved in the reforn of public services and help to establish civil society as a partner in PSCAP, and
monitor of its progress.
Program costs
The cost of funding the activities of Phase 1 of PSCAP (excluding the costs of Separation Packages for
retrenched public servants) is estimated at US$45 million (see Table 3 below), of which the IDA share
would be S28 million.
The Government is seeking funding for specific activities of the Project from development partners. The
World Bank, DFID, EU and UNDP and Irish Aid have already indicated interest to support PSCAP.
DFID is expected to fund the establishment and payroll controlsubcomponent ($8.7 million) and EU the
treasury management subcomponent of the third ($5.9 million). UNDP has a project to support
decentralization, disaster management, good governance and PSRP. NORAD is currently supporting a
program to enhance the capacity of the OAG. USAID has expressed interest in support part of the policy
management subcomponent. This means that funding is likely to be available for all of the $45 million
required for Phase I.
Table 3
Rightsizing & Pay Refonn             BA            14         32%        4        10%
Policy & Public Service Mgmt.        BA             9         19%        8         19%
Financial Management,
Accountability & Transparency      BF            16         35%       10         21%
Judicial & Legal                     BY             2          5%        2         5%
Decentralization & Participatory
Development                        BD             1           1%        -         -
Project Implementation               BA             4          8%        4         8%
Total Project Cost                  45         100       28         63%
** BA =Civil Service RefoTm; BD =Decentralization; BF = Public Financial Mgmt.; BY =Other Public Sector Mgmt.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported during Phase 1:
Phase 1 will improve the capacity of the public service to manage change, including carrying
forward the planned restructuring and retrenchment and the associated improvements in
incentives for civil servants and the managers of the private sector and local govemment
agencies who will become responsible for service provision. The most important policy reforms
that will be achieved during Phase I will be the monetization of civil service benefits, the
introductions of performance contracts for PSs, significant improvements in the salaries of key
technical and professional staff, and the establishment of an equitable and sustainable pensions fund.



19
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits of the Program include:
* an improved quality of life of the Zambian people through the cost-effective provision of public
services;
* a reduction in poverty through better targeting of subsidies to the poor and the effective
implementation of public policies that will promote private sector development;
* service delivery staff in ministries, agencies, local government and the private sector motivated to
perform well;
* public servants who are accountable for their decisions and actions and promoted on the basis on
merit alone;
* policy decision-making and service provision that is more transparent to the beneficiaries.
The people of Zambia are the ultimate beneficiaries and target population, in particular the poor, who
have such weak access to public services.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The institutional and implementation arrangements are summarized in this section. More detail on how
the management team will address the challenges it will face is given in Annex 13.
Management Principles. An overriding principle to be applied in the management of PSCAP is that the
implementation team, which spans a number of ministries, agencies and levels of seniority, will conduct
their work and relationships with fellow program implementers in a collegial, problem-solving manner.
As a Zambian-designed program, it is recognized that all of the programmed activities and desired
outcomes of PSCAP respond to locally generated assessments of the current public service and Zambian
prescriptions for critical remedial actions. Therefore, the task of the program implementation team is to
organize and provide the assistance to the stakeholder organizations that they themselves have requested.
This is not to say that the normal types of management challenges that present themselves in the course of
any program's implementation will be completely avoided. However, management for results using
influence and dialogue-as opposed to imposition and coercion-will be the practices of choice.
Program Organization. The Program will be led by what is collectively referred to as the Leadership and
Management Team, which is firmly embedded inside the public service itself. The Leadership and
Management Team is comprised of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic Development, the
chief executive of each implementing agency, and the following groupings: the Steering Committee, Program
Implementation and Coordination Team (PIC), and the Technical Committee. The Steering Committee,
which serves an advisory and coordinating function, is comprised of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-
Finance/Economic Development and the chief executive of all implementing agencies. The technical staff
of PIC consists of the Director/PIC, Finance Manager/PIC, Procurement Manager/PIC and M&E
Manager/PIC. Their function is to advise the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic
Development and implementing agencies on program-related matters that require their attention. The PIC
also serves a coordinating and facilitative role to maximize program effectiveness and timeliness. The
Technical Committee, which is meant to serve as a venue to discuss operational program implementation
matters, includes as its members the technical PIC staff and a designate from each of the implementing
agencies, who will be known as sub-component task managers.
Members of the Steering Committee include Permanent Secretaries from central government ministries
and agencies (the PSMD, MDD, and PAC from the Cabinet Office, MOFED, MOLA, MH, ME and
MLSS) and the chief executives of the other implementing agencies.  If necessary, the Steering



20
Committee will refer major policy issues to the Cabinet, through the relevant Cabinet Committee(s). The
Steering Committee will meet at least once every quarterly to:
*  review and assess progress in project implementation (as comprehensively reported by the DPS-FED
and Director/PIC);
*  deliberate on policy and strategic issues on the PSCAP (within the PSRP framework);
*  address inter-sectoral and inter-programs co-ordination issues; and
*  give advice to the DPS-FED
Each sub-component of the project will be led by the chief executive of the implementing agency,
assisted by a task manager who will manage the day-to-day activities relevant to PSCAP. The DSC-FED
and PIC Team will meet with all the sub-component managers on a weekly basis at the beginning of the
program and then monthly once the work programs have settled down. (See Figure 3).



21
FIGURE 3:
PSCAP
Leadership and Management
Team
PROGRAM
DIRECTOR
(Deputy Secretary              PSRP/PSCAP
to the Cabinet,                Steering
Finance &/                  Committee
Economic Dev.)              (Chair. DSC/FED)
E! . *                                      Ta  (PI\                                             ,  Technical
Committee
iD E                -                         |                       =                     /    (Chair Director/
Eu                                                                                                    PlC)
CEO Implementin  |      E   mplementing |   uEO Implementn            CEO Implementing       CEO Implementin 
Agency                 Agency                  Agency                 Agency                  Agency 
Tk|L-I L
Task Manager           TakManager,              Task Manager            Task Manager          Task Manager



22
Monitoring and Evaluation. As noted above, external evaluations or reviews of the program will be
carried out mid-way through and toward the conclusion of Phase 1. However, these reviews do not
substitute for sound project management practices, which require constant monitoring of program
activities and regular evaluation of their impact. While financial and procurement audits are certainly key
aspects of program monitoring and evaluation, equally important are assessments of the efficacy of
program management systems and the impacts (planned and unplanned) of program activities-
particularly in relation to the achievement of program targets. This means that systems must be in place
that enable the collection of data, the compilation and analysis of disparate forms of information, and the
development of conclusions and recommendations to inform future project action.
In a general sense, monitoring and evaluation activities are the responsibility of the Leadership and
Management Team as a whole. Each member of the Team can expect to be involved in one aspect of
M&E or another (generating, analyzing or making decisions based on monitoring data). On an operational
level, technical (as opposed to financial or procurement) PSCAP monitoring and evaluation activities will
be guided by the M&E Manager/PIC. The M&E Manager will be available to assist the chief executives
and task managers of implementing agencies to plan baseline surveys and other studies, refine
performance indicators (found in Annex 1), identify existing data sets, and draw conclusions from the
surveys and studies. The M&E Manager/PIC will also be responsible for establishing reporting schedules
and monitoring progress on all components (drawing from reports produced at the sub-component level)
in relation to the annual work plan and toward the achievement of overall program targets, such as the
triggers. The M&E Manager/PIC will provide written and oral briefings to the Director/PIC on the
process and outcome of monitoring and evaluation activities. The information produced through the
program's monitoring and evaluation initiatives will provide important input into the external evaluations
and reviews conducted periodically throughout the life of the program.
The program design also recognizes that monitoring and evaluation is a critical and ongoing function of
central government itself. Ministries must be able to track key trends in the sectors for which they are
responsible and to use monitoring information to identify the need for action. For that reason, a major
activity is planned to develop a monitoring system under the Policy Management sub-component of
Component 2. Systems will be developed and piloted that will help get critical information into the hands
of policy makers when it is needed. To support this, training in monitoring and evaluation techniques
and in the new M&E system will be provided to targeted individuals in the civil service. Likewise, under
the "Accountability" sub-component of Component 3, the Office of the Auditor General will begin
training auditors in Performance Auditing. Performance auditing goes beyond traditional auditing
practices, which mainly verify whether approved resources have been applied to their intended purpose.
In addition to ascertaining this important information, performance audits also seek answers to questions
like, Could the same goods or services been acquired for less? Could better goods or services have been
acquired for the same amount? And, Were the intended benefits accrued through the purchase?
Performance Auditing systems will be broadly introduced in Phase 2.
Financial Management.  The Common Services Accounting Unit (CSAU) will be responsible for
maintaining accounting records for all project-related expenditures following generally accepted
accounting principals. In light of CSAU's added responsibility of providing strong financial management
to PSCAP, additional capacity in accounting, financial reporting and internal controls will be added to the
unit. This has included the upgrading of the financial accounting system to a computerized financial
reporting system, appointment of a qualified financial manager, and the training of staff to enable CSAU
provide reliable and timely management information to the project. Oversight will be provided by a
Finance Committee established to monitor and take action on risk areas in the administration of finance
and prescribe preventative measures to ensure that PSCAP project implementation is effective and timely.



23
Project records and accounts, including the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), will
be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and with terms of reference approved by the Bank. Audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months following the end of the fiscal year.
The action plan for the remaining requirements to ensure the operation of a sound financial management
system and to introduce PMR- based disbursements by September 30, 2001 was agreed at negotiations.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The preferred option is Adaptable Program Lending (APL). The APL encourages sustained institution
building, which is consistent with the aims of the program. GRZ found the long term commitment on the
part of GRZ itself and its cooperating partners to the transformation of the public service through APL
very appealing. GRZ also believes that the triggers associated with APL provide good incentives to
implement the required reforms.
A Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was also considered. LILs, which are short term, up to 18
months, are designed for piloting and experimentation prior to larger-scale implementation. Although
this project will include learning, innovation, and piloting, it has such a strong focus on capacity and
institution building that the LIL would be inappropriate. In addition, much learning has already taken
place and the design of this project has benefited greatly from six years of experience of implementing the
original PSRP.
A Technical Assistance Project was also considered. Technical Assistance Projects tend to be for a
shorter period than what will be required to achieve the overall objectives of the PSCAP, given its focus
on behavioral change. Moreover, Technical Assistance Projects lack the flexibility that will be required
to support the reform of the public service. Also, the focus is very much on the use of technical
assistance, which might not be the only tool that PSCAP requires.
The range and scope of the project were also assessed. A narrowly focused project would be easier to
manage and monitor. However, public sector reform is by its very nature broad in impact and
implication. It is difficult to make progress in one area without complementary progress elsewhere. For
example, salary structures have to be reformed in order to create the kind of motivation needed to
introduce performnance management. Similarly, substantial training and retraining of staff is required to
support changes in structures and processes. Past experience with public service reform in Zambia, and
elsewhere, has demonstrated the dangers of narrowly focused projects. Over a six-year period GRZ
methodically prepared plans to restructure ministries, but was not able to implement the plans because it
did not have, nor was able to create, the funding required to carry out the retrenchment required to reduce
staffing. Similarly, many civil servants have benefited from donor supported training programs but have
had little chance to apply their new learning because processes and structures were not reformed. It is
well appreciated that as comprehensive a reform program as this raises substantial management problems.
The implementation arrangements discussed above balance decentralized day-to-day management by sub-
component managers, based in the institutions with principal responsibility for that component, with
strong coordination and monitoring by the PIC.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies: (completed,
ongoing andplanned)
There are strong linkages between PSCAP and a number of other donor- supported projects. It is one of



24
PSCAP's most important objectives to support the development of capacity in sector ministries and in
local government to implement the institutional reforms planned under these projects. As the project
director for a World Bank project said during the CAS process, "We need to ensure that we have the
capacity in place before undertaking a project." The linkages are illustrated in Figures 4 and 5 by relating
the logical framework for PSCAP and its outputs to the logical frameworks for the health and basic
education programs and their inputs. In each case, PSCAP is providing inputs upon which the successful
implementation of these two programs depends.
The major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies are as indicated in Table 4.
PSCAP is a continuation of some of the projects listed below, for example FILMUP and PIRC II,
privatization support, on the part of the Bank, and Establishment control, on the part of DFID. The
linkages between PSCAP and the adjustment operations has been and will continue to be very close. The
multi-donor Health, Training, Agriculture and Education sector programs all involve institutional reforms
that will be supported by PSCAP's capacity building. IrishAid is providing technical support to pilot
some of the reforms that will be introduced to the whole of the public service through capacity building
support from PSCAP.



25
Figure 4: Illustrative Relationship Between PSCAP and
SIPs Health Sector Reform
Health Sector
Goal
Improved health of
PSCAP                              Zambians
Goal                                    Purpose
Public Sector efficiently and
effectively supports social              Improved health care
and economic development                 delivery system
Purpose                                  Outputs             Limitation of
Improved nutrition      managers'
Sustainable capacity of the                  Lower fertility          responsibility
public service to provide                *  Reduced transmission o    and control
improved services                            AIDS                     (manageable
- _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .interest)
VI             Outputs                                    Inputs
Limitation of  *  Right sized public    (PSCAP         *  Policy development
managers'      service                outputs           support
responsibility and  *  Effective leadership and  cotrbtute     Investment program
control     mgmt. of the public    contriuee to       support-equipment,
service               achievement        capacity building,
*  Public financial       of SIPs'           supplies
resources strategically   objectives)    *  Monitoring and
managed                                  evaluation
*  Well-functioning policy               *  Supportive health
process                                  policies, etc.
*  Improved accountabilit
and transparency
Inputs
*  Integrated payroll and
personnel systems
* Non-core functions
divested
* Public service salaries
decompressed
* Benefits monetized
* Wages policy
* Financial mgmt. &
control systems
* Policy monitoring
system
* Legal frameworks for
accountability/
transparency
Performance monitorin
by AG's office
* Clear decentralization
policy and legal
framework



26
Figure 5: Illustrative Relationship Between PSCAP and
SIPs Basic Education Sector Reform
Basic Education (BESSIP)
Goal
Quality and relevant Basic
PSCAP                          Education for all children
achieved
Goal                                    Purpose
Public Sector efficiently and            To increase enrollment and
effectively supports social               improve learning
and economic development                 achievement
________________-          _1
Purpose                                  Outputs              W
*  National capacity to    Limitation of
Sustainable capacity of the                  plan, implement,        managers'
public service to provide                    monitor & build         responsibility
improved services                        *   Increased infrastructure  and control
r----------------------------                   for learning            (manageable
Outputs                          *  More & better teachers  interest)
Limitation of *  Right sized public                        correctly deployed
managers'      service                               *  Textbooks & other
responsibility and  *  Effective leadership and (PSCAP         educational materials
control (manageable    mgmt. of the public    outputs            available/in use
interest)    service                contribute to  *  Basic school curriculum
*  Public financial       achievement        in line with policy needs
resources strategically   of SiPs'    *  No child excluded
managed                objectives)        because of cost
*  Well-functioning policy                         Inputs
process                              *   Program management
*   Improved accountability               *   Infrastructure
and transparency                      *  Teachers development,
deployment,
compensation
Inputs                          *  Educational materials
*  Integrated payroll and                 *  Capacity building and
personnel systems                         decentralization
*  Non-core functions                    *   Curriculum
divested                                  development
*  Public service salaries               *  Equity/gender
decompressed                          *   School health &
*  Benefits monetized                        nutrition
*   Wages policy                         I_nutrition
* Financial mgmt. &
control systems
* Policy monitoring
system
* Legal frameworks for
accountability/
transparency
* Performance monitoring
by AG's office
* Clear decentralization
policy and legal
framework



27
Table 4: Major Related Projects
Sector Issue          Project       Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-Financed                      Implementation               Development Objective (DO)
Progress (IP)
Basic Education.           BESSIP          S             BESSIP is the national program for basic education. Its
principal purpose is to provide relevant basic education of
good quality to all children. Institutional refon-ns include
restructuring the Ministry, decentralization andl community
involvement.
Privatization              ERIP            S              Project objectives include privatization of ZCCM;
improving capacity in the Ministry of Mines; and TA to
MLA in drafting business legislation.
Governance                 FILMUP          S              The objectives of the project are to strengthen the Govt.'s
capacity & assist the development of accounting &
auditing, public sector procurement, legal drafting &
administration & the provision of business infornation.
Health Reforms             Health          U              The sector investment program's objectives are to improve
Reforms                       access to quality health care and improve nutrition and
family planning services. It has two main components:
Policy Development, which involves research &
development of the national health policy framework; and
Investments, which involves construction and rehab of
health services facilities and acquisition of equipment
including essential drugs and materials. Other participants
include the Swedish International Development Agency,
DFID; Danish Int'l Dev. Agency; Netherlands Govt.;
WHO, and UNICEF.
Agriculture                ASIP            S              The Agricultural Sector Inv. Program (ASIP) is the first in
a series of successive multi-year sector programs aimed at
supporting the medium- and long-term goals of the Govt.
ASIP's primary objectives include improving household
food security, promoting better use of natural resources,
generating incomes and employment, and increasing
export eamings. IDA's contribution to ASIP is now
focused on the following sub-programs: Agricultural
Services, Rural Investment Fund, and Capacity Building.
Co-financing is in the form of loans and grants from
various donors equivalent to US$130 million.
Water & Sanitation         Urban           S              The project aims to assist the Govt. in providing improved
Restruc-                      quality water supply in the peri-urban centers of councils
turing &                      which do not have a reliable connection to formal water
Water                         supply systems. The main components include Water
Supply                        Supply and Sanitation Rehab., Community-based
Demonstration Projects and Capacity Building. Co-
financing is provided through a grant from NORAD in an
amount equivalent to US$12 million.



28
Sector Issue          Project      Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings(Bank-financed projects only)
Social Recovery            2nd Social      S             SRP II is aimed at strengthening the Govt.'s poverty
Recovery                     reduction program through financing community
initiatives which assist the poor and the vulnerable. The
project's main components include: Community
Initiatives, Poverty Monitoring, and Poverty Analysis. Co-
financing is provided in the form of grants from Sweden in
an amount equivalent to USS700,0O0 and from Norway in
an arnount equivalent to USS2 million.
Economic Reform            Public          S             The project aims to assist the Government in carrying out
Sector                        economic reform. It has the following components:
Reform &                      Assistance to ZCCM; Strengthening of the Zambia
Export                        Privatization Agency, Mining Sector Reform Program and
Promotion                     Commercial Law Reform.
Road                       National        S             The project aims to support the Govt.'s medium-term
Road Sector                   program for the road sector, to facilitate economic growth
Investment                    and diversification through appropriate investments in
Program                       road infrastructure rehab. The main components of the
ROADSIP                       project include routine maintenance of good and fair
roads, periodic maintenance to preserve the network from
further deterioration, rehabilitation of paved trunk, main
and urban roads, upgrading of non-engineered roads and
improving accessibility to non-engineered roads not
covered under the phasing program of upgrading. Co-
financing from various co-financiers in the form of grants
of approximately US$224.5 million.
Other development agencies
Training                   Canadian        On-going      Training in the public sector
College
Partnership
Program
(CIDA)
Governance/Decentralization   Public       Starting      Decentralization, human resources management and
Service                       governance
Restructur-
ing (UNDP)
Public management          Public          On-going      Introducing performance management to six ministries;
Sector                        piloting local government development; gender awareness;
Manage-                       action learning; PS fora; financial and economic training.
ment and
Local
Government
(Irish Aid)



29
Sector Issue         Project      Latest Supervision (Form 590) Ratings(Bank-financed projects only)
Financial Management      Financial &    On-going
Audit
Strengthen-
ing
(NORAD)
Public management         Establish-    Ongoing        Setting up establishment and payroll control system
ment and
Payroll
Control
Project
(DFID)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory); S (Satisfactory); U (Unsatisfactory); HU (Highly Unsatisfactory).
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Important lessons were learned from the first six years experience of implementing PSRP. Some of these
lessons highlight the need to improve the capacity of managers in the public service. The Issues Study
carried out at the beginning of the preparation of the program demonstrated that even after many years
managers still did not think strategically, especially about implementation. Although restructuring plans
were developed, little has been done to implement them. Other lessons point to the need to establish
linkages, think about phasing and do " first things first." One reason for the lack of retrenchment vas that
the Government was not able to find any way to pay retrenched staff . Thus, the need to link restructuring
to retrenchment. Similarly, funding was never made available to decompress salaries, an essential
precondition for motivating staff to perform more effectively. Over the years capacity deficiencies have
become increasingly recognized as major impediments to growth. During the recent CAS process the
Government identified weak public service capacity as one of the main reasons for weak economic
performance and limited success in alleviating poverty. The past few years also demonstrated the
importance of putting in place the means to link sectoral and government-wide institutional reform with
realistic budgets. At the same time the Cabinet set out to substantially reduce the size of the public
service, strategies were being prepared in some sectors that involved considerable staffing increases.
Mechanisms did not seem to be in place to reconcile the proposed increase in the numbers of teachers,
policy, prison workers and health workers with budgetary constraints. (Both sectors plan to increase
staffing by many thousands; the same is true of the police).
One of the most important lessons learned during the preparation of the project, and the preparation of the
Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion Credit (the current adjustment operation), is the importance
of having an effective management structure. The original plan under PSREP was to locate the
management of the Public Service Reform Program outside the civil service along the lines of the Zambia
Privatization Agency.  This did not work, mainly because it impinged upon the constitutional
responsibilities of the Secretary to the Cabinet, who is also the Head of the Civil Service and the
President's Principal Advisor. Since the Secretary to the Cabinet has the constitutional responsibility to
implement any policies concerning the civil service, an agency outside could not have the authority
needed to implement the necessary reforms. Therefore PSCAP will be managed from within the civil



30
service, in fact, from the very heart of the civil service, the Cabinet Office, under the authority of the
Secretary to the Cabinet and direct supervision of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet (FED).
The project design has drawn upon the Bank's own experience of public service reform and capacity
building. The paper, "The World Bank: Addressing the Challenge of Reforming Public Institutions,"
recommends five broad changes in the Bank's approach. Each will be significantly addressed in this
program:
* Shift focus from the content of public policy to the way policy is made and implemented. One of the
program components, policy management will do just this.
* Address a broad range of mechanisms that promote public sector reform. The accountability and
transparency component will have an impact on rules and restraints; the rightsizing and public
management component will promote the commercialization of the provision of public services; and
the program has been prepared with substantial voice and partnership, as explained below under
Participation.
* Emphasize good fit over best practice. The program has been prepared by a Zambian team very
familiar with reform efforts to date and the institutions and processes that need to be reformed
* Enhance institutions through longer-term programmatic lending. A 13-year APL is proposed for a
program that focuses on capacity building
* Develop skills to do better institutional work. Above all else, PSCAP is setting out to develop skills
to reform processes and institutions.
The program aiso addresses many of the challenges identified in the Africa Region Annex to that report.
There is strategic prioritization: the program will begin by building capacity to manage change and carry
out the retrenchment required to release funds to decompress salaries. This will motivate staff to pay more
attention to the achievement of the results citizens and businesses need and expect. Fundamental reform
to the state structure will include focusing the core civil service on policy formulation and monitoring and
promoting the decentralization of service delivery. The program will set out to link together sector
reform initiatives and thus avoid "stovepiping;" there is representation from the key sectors in the
Zambian team preparing the project. There has been close collaboration among Bank staff responsible
for the preparation of institutional reforms in the social and economic sectors and between
macroeconomic and public sector management specialists.
The program is also in line with the Partnership for Capacity Building in Africa (PACT). Each of
PACT's four underlying principles is being applied in this program.
*   African ownership and leadership of the process: both the PCD and the PAD were drafted by a
Zambian team
*   Centrality of capacity to the development process: capacity building is at the heart of this project
*   Critical role of partnership in addressing capacity problems: the preparation of this project has
involved a partnership between a number of donors and the Zambian team
*   Practical and realistic phasing of all actions: careful phasing and learning by doing will be
facilitated by the APL structure of the program
One of PACT's objectives, and this program's, is to strengthen governance within the core public service.
Strengthening the interface between the public sector and civil society is another shared objective.



31
The Peer reviewers recommended that a clearer vision for the public service be developed together with a
roadmap showing how the public service will be transformed. The comparison of the public service as it
is now and how it should be after 2010 (Table 1 above) was prepared by the GRZ at a three day-retreat,
where the roadmap was also sketched out. The Project Implementation Plan represents the detailed
roadmap for Phase 1. Gender, AIDS, Public Accounts Committee, and Public Participation activities
were also added to PSCAP at this retreat. In addition, the linkages between PSCAP and other projects
were clarified.
The design of PSCAP has also been responsive to Bank-sponsored studies of perceptions of good
governance and good bureaucracy. These studies, carried out for the 1997 World Development Report,
and subsequently, which were based upon the perceptions of the clients of government, especially
business people, rate Zambia fairly highly in Africa. According to composite scoring based upon a
number of surveys, Zambia has an upper middle score for governance since it is seen to have "rule-based
governance;" but Zambia does lose points under this heading for "low credibility." The score for good
bureaucracy is mixed: red tape is not perceived to be excessive, service is considered weak. PSCAP aims
to improve the credibility of its governance rules, by, for example, strengthening the Office of the
Auditor-General. PSCAP has a very strong service improvement theme that will promote "good
bureaucracy."
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Project Concept Document (PCD) and this PAD were drafted by the GRZ PSCAP Technical
Committee with support from the Secretary to the Cabinet, who is, according to the Constitution, also the
Principal Advisor to the President and Head of the Civil Service; the Minister of Finance, who chairs the
PSRP Management Committee; and the Steering Committee for PSRP, which is chaired by the Deputy
Secretary to the Cabinet/FED and includes Permanent Secretaries from key Ministries and the Cabinet
Office. During a meeting with the PSCAP team, the Minister recommended building into ]PSCAP
stronger links with civil society so that it would be become a partner in the reforms.  There is
representation on the PSCAP Technical Committee from all of the public and private sector agencies who
will participate in the implementation of PSCAP. This Committee has drafted the PCD and PAD and has
been working almost full time since June 1998, in close collaboration with the Bank. The Committee has
preferred to prepare the project itself with very little support from consultants.
GRZ has shown a willingness to undertake tough measures to reform the public service. The public
service will have been reduced from 137,000 to about 112,000 by the end of 1999; the core civil service
now has about 18,000 staff, a number GRZ plans to reduce substantially by the end of this APL. Further
retrenchment will be based upon restructuring plans that have been prepared by the Cabinet Office and
the Ministries concerned. GRZ will introduce establishment and payroll controls that have eliminated the
possibility of retrenched civil servants returning to the public service and that ensure that any new
recruitment is approved by the PSRP Steering Committee. GRZ has set up a task force to prepare plans
to monetize all benefits and reform pay.
In order to bring costs under control, GRZ implemented a wages freeze throughout 1998 and a ban on
hiring since 1997. The interim payroll and establishment control system has been implemented that does
ensure that no new hiring takes place.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA staff have played a catalytic role in the preparation of this program, bringing together both the
Zambian team and key donors. The Bank's involvement grew out of long term concern for the fiscal
viability of the public sector and a series of sector-based projects requiring institutional reforrn, most



32
recently the Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion Adjustment Credit and the Health and Education
SIPs. Under the adjustment credit, the Bank provided technical as well as balance of payments support to
the Government's Revised Public Service Reform Program. This was presented to the CG in 1997 and
set out substantially to reduce the staffing in the public service and improve payroll and establishment
controls, thereby paving the way for decompressing salaries and introducing performance management.
DFID, IrishAid and UNDP assigned staff or consultants to preparation missions organized by the Bank.
Throughout the preparation process, the Bank has supplied to the Zambian team lessons learned from
other projects. This process will continue. One proposal is to establish internet linkages among a number
of Bank-supported public service programs in Africa so that the managers of these programs can
exchange ideas and experience. The programs in Tanzania and Ghana are at much the same stage as the
one in Zambia; all three are APLs and have similar development objectives.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
A number of economic benefits are to be accrued through PSCAP.
(i)   The size of the core public service will be reduced and service provision decentralized This will
contribute to the creation of funds from the current wage bill to be allocated to decompression of
salaries so that a more efficient and effective public service will be possible.
(ii)  Internal and external auditors will be trained and put in place across the government. An
expected result will be a more effective control over the variability in the wage bill due to
improper or inappropriate use of allowances. Estimates are that at least 10% of the wage bill may
be improperly used in this way.
(iii)  Senior managers in all ministries, along with accountants, financial managers and auditors, will
be trained in new financial management techniques, and will be supported by an updated financial
management system. It is expected that these measures will improve the linkage between the
planned budget and actual cash budget demands. Managers will be better able to schedule
expenditures to minimize the cash flow problems which have been common in the last few years.
(iv)  Increased accountability for managers and more transparency in decision-making along with
procurement support offices in ministries, are expected to improve the efficiency of major
expenditures, and to reduce the leakage of funds.
(v)   The privatization or hiving off of government activities will result in savings. The four
organizations currently scheduled to be hived off, for instance, will receive over time only a
decreasing fraction of their current operating expenses from the government, many eventually
zero. This is in addition to the reduction in benefits and salary for employees of these organizations.
(vi)  The development of improved policy development, analysis and review processes will improve the
ability of the government to analyze the implementation costs and implications of alternative
policy options. The resultant process of monitoring policy decisions through to implementation
will reduce the incidence of unanticipated costs and cash demands, and clashes of priorities
between activities.



33
2. Financial:
Short-term financial benefits due to a reduction in the size of the public sector are not expected. This is
principally because savings will be used to decompress salaries, and possibly bring up the bottorn levels
to a more equitable amount. The government policy on the wage bill is at present to keep it from growing.
This may not be possible due to the social program pressures in the areas of health, education, agriculture
and security.
One of the key elements of PSCAP in this regard is the analysis that will be carried out to restructure
government ministries. Difficult policy decisions and trade-offs must be confronted. For example: Will
fewer extension workers have a negative impact on agricultural productivity? What is the most
appropriate student/teacher ratio given the need for educated and skilled resources in the future? PSCAP
will help build the analytical capacity to enable the government to have confidence in the implications of
alternative courses of action.
3. Technical:
The PSRP and PSCAP utilize lessons learned in other reform programs. The general strategy, however,
consists of a specific Zambian approach, incorporating on a pragmatic basis some of the trends seen in
other parts of the world, such as separation of policy and implementation activities where this is
advantageous, increased emphasis on performance measurement and monitoring, removal of activities
seen to be not essential government services, improvement in the professional and remuneration aspects
of the workforce.
4. Institutional:
The institutional arrangements for managing the project and for ensuring sustainability of results build
upon experiences gained in earlier stages of the reform program. No new separate organizational units are
being created to manage PSCAP. The project secretariat, however, will contain technical support units for
Finance, Procurement and Monitoring and Evaluation.
The Director's office will be an in-house function, able to readily liaise and interact with all of tlhe GRZ
participating agencies. The Steering Committee, consisting of Permanent Secretary-level officials, will
ensure that PSCAP receives the required visibility and senior management attention needed to implement
this complex program.
5. Social:
There are offsetting social impacts to be expected from PSCAP. On the one hand, a number of civil
servants will leave the service and will join the private sector, either independently, or as part of hived-
off previously government-operated activities. A program to counsel and advise such people who will be
seeking employment in a competitive market will be made available. A feature of this program will be the
utilization of a pilot approach for general open market job seekers, and not only ex-govemment
employees. The program would include advisories and counseling for those employees leaving the
service with a separation package, which could be used to create employment opportunities in the micro-
economic sector, or for groups at the small-enterprise level.
Another area of social impact will be in the restructuring process, which will create a refocusing on the
delivery of some essential social services, such as health and education. The concepts of level of service
and funding sources will be re-addressed in this process, with the potential for impacts beyond the
officials directly involved.



34
6. Environmental Assessment:
Not applicable.
7. Participatory Approach:
The program design is the result of a highly participatory process that included key implementers of
PSCAP. This included participation by Cabinet Office (including the Management Development and
Policy Analysis and Coordination, and Public Service Management Divisions, and the Public Service
Reform Program), Auditor General's Office, Ministry of Local Government and Housing, Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development, Ministry of Legal Affairs, National Institute of Public
Administration, Zambia Privatization Agency, the Judiciary, Zambia National Tender Board, Financial
and Legal Management Upgrading Project and the Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants. Staff from
other Ministries and agencies were co-opted to the Zambian PSCAP Technical Committee as needed.
Both the PCD and the PAD were drafted by the Technical Committee under a very participatory process
that began in June 1998. These institutions will be both implementers and initial beneficiaries of the
program. The Technical Committee's proposals were reviewed by the PSRP Steering Committee, which
itself includes a wide range of participation from key stakeholders.
The program preparation team was able to benefit from consultations that took place with civil society as
part of the current CAS process. These included representatives of the business, church, women, trade
union, academic and poor rural and urban communities. In addition parliamentarians from all parties
provided input. Throughout the process there was informal contact with people outside government. A
number of stakeholder workshops are scheduled to take place under the PPF.
Representatives for DFID, UNDP and IrishAid-three key donors for public service reform in Zambia-
participated in the preparation missions and have been kept fully informed about progress with the
preparation of the project. GRZ distributed the PSCAP Strategy and Action Plan, upon which PCD and
draft PAD are based, to all development partners. Bank staff and GRZ representatives have held
individual meetings with most development partners to discuss PSCAP.
PSCAP is using participatory approaches in its implementation, as well as developing a more
participatory approach to government operations in general. Some examples of this are:
(i)   The planning and development of PSCAP has involved a broad spectrum of managers from across
government. The Steering Committee and the Implementation Committee are both multi-
departmental and designed to ensure all interests throughout government and associated
organizations are taken into account.
(ii)  The restructuring analyses being carried out under the program specifically examine the opportunities
for devolution of government operations on to other levels of government and on to the private sector.
This will reduce government involvement and increase the participation of other agencies.
(iii) Further opportunities for implementing models such as the hospital management model, which
involves the use of local boards and community participation in the decision and policy process,
will be sought during implementation of PSCAP.
(iv)  The creation or enhancement of social safety net programs for separated civil servants, which be
examined as a model for more widespread employee/employment matching services. This
program will specifically involve private sector participation and partnership.



35
(v)   the enhancement of the policy development and analysis capacity of the government, which will
also provide opportunities for universities, research organizations and public interest groups to
begin to provide input and feedback into the process of creating policy for Zambia.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Capacity building approach. Past project approaches have had a limited impact on sustainability as
they constituted a series of uncoordinated projects that were often too dependent on external expertise.
That approach failed to develop the necessary systems and local capacity to sustain the activities beyond
the projects' life. To ensure sustainability under this program, no new institution will be created. IExisting
agencies will basically carry on with their functions, except as those functions are revised under the
program. These agencies will in general be required to build upon or adjust activities in which they are
already engaged. The program sets out to enhance the capacity of individuals and institutions; it will
work by building capacity to achieve sustainability.
Government commitment. The program will be sustained because the Government is committed at the
highest levels. GRZ has demonstrated its commitment to public sector reform by privatizing over 260
state-owned enterprises, one of the best records in Africa; by separating 22,000 public servants occupying
redundant posts; by maintaining a tight monetary stance; and by introducing measures that make it almost
impossible for retrenched civil servants to return to the civil service. During the recent CAS process, the
Government itself identified "local capacity building" and "public service capacity building" as among its
own development principles and priorities.
Civil Service commitment. The effective and willing participation of civil servants at the highest levels
in the preparation of this program demonstrates their commitment to make the program work. The staff
involved in the preparation of the PCD and the PAD have given up months of their own time; and their
PSs have released them for many more months to assist in the preparation. Most of the costs of this have
been bome by the Government. The Secretary to the Cabinet/Head of the Civil Service has supported the
preparation of the program throughout and has reviewed and approved all drafts of the document.s. Each
component of the program has been cleared with the departmental or agency head responsible for its
implementation.
Ownership. Zambian ownership of the project-a result of the capacity building approach and
Government and Civil Service commitment-the best guarantee of sustainability. The donors that have
been involved in the preparation of the program will sustain the program through their ownership too.
2. Critical risks:
Critical risks are outlined in Table 5.



36
Table 5: Summary of Critical Risks and Risk Minimization Measures
FrG.. i~pto1iga                                    I~v0pi
Future governments, and a new President, will not  N         The program sets out to implement some of the
be as committed as the current one to the program            more difficult and strategic, win-lose changes in
(elections will take place before the end of Phase I)        the first phase, leaving more of the win-win
changes for later phases. Will and capacity to
manage change will be embedded in the leadership
of the civil service during the first phase. The
focus on capacity building is a politically neutral
approach to public service reform; any government
is likely to welcome a public service able to
perform well.
Future governments may change key elements of      M         The program's approach builds in flexibility. The
the program                                                  program's impact will be carefully monitored and
evaluated so that changes have a high probability
of being based on experience. Civil society input
into the monitoring process will encourage change
in the public interest.
Personalization of government and governance       M         Implementation of the program through capacity-
may make reformed processes redundant                        building approach, with strong ownership by key
stakeholders, will mitigate against this risk. The
capacity of the administrative leaders to involve
political leaders in the reform process, thus
building their ownership, will be enhanced under
the project.
Ambitious new training program has been             S        Two-pronged training strategy: Where capacity
planned, yet training capacity is weak                       exists, early training for core management staff in
institutions (in-country and int'l); Training of
trainers in Phase I and the first part of Phase 11,
together with upgrading public and private
facilities. PSCAP and training sector investment
program will be mutually supportive.
Large, complex program will be difficult to         H        Early Phase I focus on training managers in
manage                                                       management, including procurement and financial
management, as wvell as various aspects of public
service reform. Monitoring by Steering Committee
of success of implementation arrangements
proposed in the PAD.
Large donor funding requirements will not be met    N        Four donors involved from the beginning in
program preparation. Steering Committee Chair
has initiated regular meetings with all donors
interested in public service reform. The planned
IDA share of the total is high.



37
Risk                       Risk Ratintg           Riskl Mininiization Meastire(s)
From Componeuts to Outputs                   - .
1. Right-sizing and Pay Reform
Resistance to further retrenchment                   H         The program will develop the capacity of GRZ to
demonstrate that benefits to the members of the
unions, including higher salaries, can only be
sustained by reducing staffing. Capacity will be
developed in negotiation and communications
skills. Social protection programs will be
augmented, including programs to train retrenched
civil servants in new skills, including setting up
businesses. The training sector SIP will provide
support to retrenched staff.
GRZ will not be able to afford the retrenchment      H         Donor support will be mobilized partially to fund
payments                                                      the retrenchment. Fund will come from Pensions
Fund, the recapitalization of which may be a focus
of the next adjustment operation, as will the
establishment of a more viable pensions policy.
Action Plan covering the retrenchment is being
prepared.
Lower-paid staff may resist decompression            H         As above, GRZ will develop capacity to mobilize
political support for measures that are unpopular
with some Zambians.
Staff will resist closures of departments and        M         The capacity of managers will be developed to
establishment of executive agencies; many will                 effect smooth transitions including retraining staff
lose jobs                                                      to be more commercially oriented and facilitating
the transition of retrenched staff into the labor
force.
2. Public Service and Policy Management
Salaries will not be decompressed enough to          H         Improvements in the salaries of key technical and
motivate key staff                                             professional staff is a trigger for Phase 1 to Phase 2.
Budgetary flows may not support introduction of      M         Fiscal management reforms undertaken by PSCAP
performance management; it might not prove                     will make budgetary flows more predictable.
possible to reward performance
Staff may not respond to monetary incentives to      M         Training programs will encourage behavioral
encourage results orientation                                  changes; budget reforms will shift focus from
inputs to outputs.
Ministries will resist proposed monitoring on        M         Principal responsibility for monitoring will lie with
behalf of Cabinet to ensure effective                          the Ministries; Cabinet Office will ensure this
implementation of policies                                     happens, but report deficiencies to Cabinet.
Workshops will be undertaken to discuss process.



38
3. Financial Management, Accountability and
Transparency
Political leaders may have weak incentives to     S        This component has been approved by the Heads
improve accountability and transparency                    of the organizations with direct responsibility for
implementing the reforms. Steps will be taken to
encourage these committed stakeholders to
demonstrate  to  other political leaders  the
efficiency gains from improved governance. Civil
society input into the implementation of the
reforms plus civil society involvement in
monitoring implementation and impact will form
part of the project
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There is a danger that the transparency and accountability activities will be viewed as verging on political
intervention. This includes enhancing the effectiveness and independence of the Office of the Auditor-
General. However this component aims to build technical capacity; and the measures likely to be
introduced are politically neutral. PSCAP will promote "good governance," to which all parties are
committed.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(i)   Agreed detailed guidelines for the operationalization  and utilization  of the Performance
Improvement Fund.
(ii)  Satisfactory financial management system.
(iii) Program Implementation and Coordination Team (Director/PIC, and Finance, Procurement and
Monitoring and Evaluation Managers) in place in Office of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet
(FED)
(iv)  All Task Managers for components and subcomponents appointed by chief executives of the
agencies responsible for implementing PSCAP.
(v)  The Cabinet will approve a plan to increase the salaries of key technical and professional staff,
identifying how the resources will be generated to fund these reforms.



39
2. Other: (classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements)
(i)  Steering Committee chaired by the Deputy Secretary tothe Cabinet (FED) to ensure effective
coordination.
(ii)  Chief Executives of the agencies responsible to implementing components of PSCAP are held
accountable for their respective component's results.
(iii) Stakeholders and beneficiaries in the program participate in the assessment of progress through
surveys, focus groups, and workshops.
(iv) Except as IDA otherwise agrees, canry out the project in accordance with the PIP. There will be
quaiterly reports on progress and revisions to training, consulting and other procurement plans.
H.    Readiness for Implementation
[ J  (la) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[xl   (lb) Not applicable.
[x]   (2 ) The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x]  (3 ) The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ ]  (4 ) The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   (1)  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]  (2)  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signature]
Team Leader Harry C. Gamett
[signature]              A
Sector Manager/Director: Brian D. L  y
[signature]
Country Manager/Dir-       R    s R.Pomerantz



40
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
|~~~~~~~~~O' U a N CEO t  a L RIIE |                     L ;   _L|                        |t  32
Sector-Reiated CAS Goal        Sectors Indicators            Sector/Country Reports         From Goal to Bank
Mission
Improve governance in                                                                     *  Political and
Zambia                                                                                        economic stability
Program Development   End-of-Program Indicators
Objectives:             (After 13 years):
1. Improved             I. The majority of public                                         *  Political and
accountability and      services are provided through                                     administrative
transparency            decentralized organizational                                      commitment to
arrangements                                                     implement reforms
2. Improved public      2.  The number of civil servants                                  *  Donor support to the
service efficiency      will number as few as 10,000                                      reform program
and capacity            individuals
3. Strengthened local    3. The executive branch will
government              confine the majority of its
action to policy formulation,
monitoring and facilitating the
implementation of policy
decisions
4. Civil society will routinely
participate in the formulation
of policy and setting of
service delivery standards
5. Sound and transparent
financial management
practices will be carried out
throughout the public service
Project (Phase 1)       l                                l
Development Objectives:
Jul '99-Jun '02
(Preparatory & Planning)                                                                       E
9  Effective
Implementation of key   I. Monetization of non-                                               management
system-wide public          transparent in-kind and non-                                      structure in place
service reforms             incidental benefits provided to                               *  Adequate and
civil servants                                                    consistent public
2. Fixed-term performance                                            funds allocation and
contracts negotiated with all                                     availabilitv
Permanent Secretaries
3. Salaries of key technical and
professional civil servants                                 l



41
MONITORING
NARRATIVE               KEY PERFORMANCE                  AND EVALUATION                   CRITICAL
SUMMARX'                   INDICATORS               (MFANS OF VERIFICATION)           ASSUMPTIONS
increased per GRZ's medium-
term pay strategy
4. Effective payroll and
establishment control system
in place, with no ghost
workers, no ghost allowances,
and no retrenched staff
returning to the civil service
within 12 months of
retrenchment
5. Year-end financial statements
ready within six months for
seven pilot ministries of
Performance Improvement
Fund
6. All proposals to Cabinet with
financial implications are
cleared by MOFED and are
consistent with budgets agreed
under MTFF
PROJECT (PHASE 1) COMPONENTS:
COMPONENT 1i Right-sizing and Pay Reform
Right-Sizing Sub-
Component
Benefits of retrenchment
1.1 Public Service      1.1 Public service established                                   will temper possible
establishment           positions reduced from                                       union opposition
reduced                 13 6,000 to 112,000
Activities:
1. I. I Separate excess  1.1.1   Reduction in the public    1. I. I Monthly statistical reports on  Financial resources and
and redundant            service from 136,000 in   wastage and appointments        issues relating to legal
staff                    1998 to target established                                requirements for
in right-sizing and pay                                   separation packages
study                                                     reconciled
1.1.2 Enhance and       1.1.2  SSN services provided to    1.1.2 Quarterly program reports  Revision of the Banking
implement Social         all retrenchees                                           and Financial Institutions
safety net                                                                         Act to institutionalize
programs                                                                           micro-credit system
1.2  Rationalized                                                                        Ownership and support
structures in place                                                                 of restructuring process
can be built within
Activities:                                                                              effected organizations
1.2.1 Continue          1.2.1 Structures and staffing levels  1 .2.1 Monitoring reports



42
i | ILS        69  ;a~~~~S,  S1 .S  JL,                                             6   
restructuring of         met in accordance with
the public service       targets set in right-sizing
and pay study
1.2.2 Enhance capacity    1.2.2 Vacancies filled with     1.2.2 Evaluation report
to select and place     qualified staff more quickly
appropriate             than at outset
personnel in
restructured
Ministries
1.3 Non-core functions
divested
Activities:
1.3.1 Divest/hive off    1.3.1 Ten priority institutions or    1.3.1 ZPA reports; MDD reports
targeted                functions are divested or
institutions or         hived off
functions
1.3.2 Where appropriate,  1.3.2 Enactment of appropriate  1.3.2 Parliament and regulatory
develop legislation      legislation and regulations       records
and regulations to
support divestiture
Pay Reform
Sub-Component
1.4 Payroll and
establishment
more effectively
managed
Activities:
1.4.1   Create a         1.4.1 Computer-based database    1.4.1 Program quarterly reports
computer-based        operational
establishment
control system
1.4.2   Upgrade payroll  1.4.2 Training provided to #     1.4.2 Program quarterly reports
and              payroll and establishment
establishment    personnel
management
skills
1.5 Pay reform in place  1.5 Public service pay policy agreed
Activities:
1.5.1 Study on pay and   1.5.1 Study conducted            1.5.1 Program quarterly reports
conditions of service



43
MONITORING(
NARRATIVE              KEY PERFORMANCE                   AND EVALUATION                   C-RITICAI'
SUMMARY                    INDICATORS              (MEANS OF VERIFICATION)             ASSUMPTIONS
1.5.2 Conduct           1.5.2 All civil servants receive  1.5.2 Audit report
administrative         fully monetized salaries
actions to
moneti7.e benefits
of public servants
1.5.3 Analysis and      1.5.3 Legislation for revised   1.5.3 Program records
revision of public      pension scheme prepared for
service pension         consideration by Parliament
scheme
1.6 Private Sector
Participation
Activities:
1.6.1 Support provided to  1.6.1 Ten priority public    1.6.1 ZPA records
ZPA                      enterprises divested.
1.6.2 Support provided to  1.6.2 10% growth in foreign  1.6.2 National statistics
Zambia                  investment
Investment Center
1.6.3 Support provided to  1.6.3 10% annual growth in   1.6.3 National statistics
Zambia National         tourism
Tourism Board
COMPONENT 2: Policy and Public Service Management
Performance
Management
Sub-Component
2.1 Performance
enhanced in
priority services of
the public service
Activities:
2.1.1 Performance       2.1.1 At least six "quick wins"  2.1.1 PIF audit
Improvement Fund          activities funded by PIF
(PIF) implemented
2.1.2 Performance       2.1.2 PMP piloted in seven      2.1.2 Project quarterly reports
Management             ministries
Packages (PMP)
piloted                                        .
2.2 Gender bias         2.2 10% increase by end of Year 3  2.2 Audit report
reduced in public      in women holding senior,
service                 managerial and technical
positions in the public service I



44
itelk' I
A ctivities:
2.2.1 Status of women in  2.2.1 Baseline survey conducted        2.2.1 Project records
the public service
better understood
2.2.2 Gender sensitivity    2.2.2 Training course developed      2.2.2 Project records
training introduced          and provided to 500 civil
servants
2.2.3  Career               2.2.3  Training course developed    2.2.3 Project quarterly reports
development                 and provided to 100
training for                 women civil servants
women public
servants
introduced
2.3 Results-oriented
Public Service
management
Activities:
2.3.1 Produce manual for   2.3.1 Manual finalized by year 3     2.3.1 Program records                 Work culture can be
performance appraisal       of program                                                            changed and influenced
system (APAS)                                                                                     by monetary incentives
2.3.2 Design syllabus for 2.3.2  Syllabus designed by end of  2.3.2 Program records                   Resources available to
PMP training            year I of program                                                      reward good performance
2.3.3 Train trainers in     2.3.3  10 PMP trainers certified by   2.3.3 Program records
PMP                       end of year 2 of program
2.4   Strategic
management
skills of public
service managers
improved
Activities:
2.4.1 Existing training    2.4.1 Evaluation study carried out   2.4.1 Program records
programs                    in year I of program
inventoried and
assessed
2.4.2 Strategic             2.4.2  Syllabus developed,           2.4.2 Program records
management training                supporting materials
* program for managers               produced; program piloted
implemented                        in 7 ministries
________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________________________   __________________________________________________________________________   ________________________________________________________  J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



45
MON ITORIN(
NARRlATIVE             KEY PERFORZMANCE                 ANi) EVALUA\TION                CRITI C'AL
SULMMARY                  INDICATORS              (MEANS OF VERIFICATION)            ASSUMPTIONS
2.5  Impact of AIDS
on the public     2.5 One public service policy   2.5 Public records
service better        reflects new
understood             information/statistics on
AIDS and the public service
Activities:
2.5.1   Conduct impact
study           2.5.1 Study completed by end of   2.5.1 Program records
year I of program
2.5.2   AIDS strategy
for the public    2.5.2 Draft strategy document  2.5.2 Program records
service drafted     completed by end of year I
of program
Policy Management
Sub-Component
2.6 Linkages between    2.6 Policy decisions made that  2.6 Evaluation reports
policy and budget       reflect budgetary constraints
process                 and priorities
strengthened
A ctivities:
2.6.1. Establish Task  2.6.1 Task Force established,   2.6.1 Meeting records
Force comprised       meets regularly, and develops
of PAC, MOFED         systems and procedural
and line Ministries   improvements
2.6.2 Analyze current    2.6.2   Consultant conducts   2.6.2 Evaluation report
policy-budgetary         study and briefs Task
linkages and             Force on
develop                  recommendations
recommendations
2.6.3   Establish      2.6.3   Written procedures      2.6.3 Written procedures
procedures for         developed
MOFED's
financial
analysis of
Cabinet
Memoranda
2.6.4 Policy Feedback    2.6.4   Consultant conducts study  2.6.4 Project records
Study                  and recommends system
enhancements and
proposed time tables
2.7 Capacity enhanced  2.7 Legal opinion provided on all  2.7 PAC interview
for legal advice on     Cabinet Memoranda that
proposed policies       require such opinions



46
Activities:
2.7.1   Develop         2.7.1 New systems and procedures  2.7.1 Program records
systems and          created
procedures in
MOLA on how
to submit legal
opinions on
policy
proposals.
2.8  Policy
formulation,
implementation,
monitoring and
evaluation
procedures
strengthened
Activities:
2.8.1 Evaluate IMCO,    2.8.1 Consultant conducts       2.8.1 Program records           Support and ownership
PS Committee,          evaluation, develops                                       of monitoring procedures
Cabinet                systems enhancements;                                      can be built within
Committee, and         provides briefing/                                         Ministries
Cabinet Liaison        discussion workshop
Committee
systems and
performance.
2.8.2 Review and refine   2.8.2 Consultant conducts study;   2.8.2 Quarterly program reports
procedures for         new procedures instituted
information
provision from
MOFED's Data
Processing Unit
(DPU) and Central
Statistical Office
(CSO)
2.8.3   Assess current   2.8.3 Consultant conducts study;    2.8.3 Program records
policy                new systems and procedures
monitoring and        developed and implemented
evaluation
systems and
procedures;
develop
enhancements
2.8.4   Policy          2.8.4 System introduced in three    2.8.4 Program records (quarterly
monitoring            priority Ministries       reports)



47
M10NITORIN(
NARRATIVE              KEY PERFORMANCE                 AND EVALUATION                  C'RITICAL
SUMMAiRY                  INDICATORS              (MEANS OF VEIRIFICATION)          ASSUMPTIONS
system piloted       (including training and
equipment)
2.8.5 Establish computer-  2.8.5 CDU functional       2.8.5 Audit report
based Cabinet
Documentation
Unit
2.9 Understanding
throughout the public
service of the policy
process, including
enhancements,
enhanced
Activities:
2.9.1  Institutionalize   2.9.1 Policy training program  2.9.1 Audit/program records  In-country training
in-service          installed at local training                               capacity can be built
policy-centered     institution                                               sufficiently to
training                                                                      accommodate volume
program                                                                       and type of training
needed under program
2.9.2   Training piloted  2.9.2 Training piloted with policy-  2.9.2 Program quarterly reports
oriented members of three
Ministries
2.9.3   Fund           2.9.3 At least 45 civil servants  2.9.3 Program records
international       trained receive international
training of         training or attend policy-
policy-oriented     oriented international
civil servants      conference
2.9.4   Develop Guide   2.9.4 Final draft of Guide    2.9.4 Program records
to Writing          produced
Sectoral Policy
Statementsl
Documents
2.9.5   Pilot sectoral    2.9.5 Assistance provided to two    2.9.5 Program records
policy              Ministries for
development         development/drafting of new
sectoral policy
2.10 Transparency,
accountability and
public participation
in the policy
process improved
Activities:
2.10.1 Review and      2.10.1 Revised classification  2.10.1 Government records
revise                 criteria guidelines created



48
mg lwwj1                     MM 0 1 a   L;A a 'Ll I a  Lti I  .1 eLIiM1]b  
classification of
policy-related
documents
2.11 International
advice and
management
assistance
2.11.1 Management and  2.1 1.1 Services contracted and  2.1 1.1 Management reports
logistic             provided
assistance for
sub-component
activities
provided
2.11.2 International   2.11.2 Services contracted and   2.11.2 Program reports
advisors provide      provided
strategic
assistance and
input to sub-
component
COMPONENT 3: Financial management, accountability, and transparency of public service
Financial
Management
Sub-Component
3.1 Effective controls
adopted and
implemented
3.1.1 Improve internal    3.1.1 Reduced annual incidence of  1. Auditor-General's report
controls               loss of government
resources
3.1.2 Strengthen       3.1.2 Reduced annual incidence of  2. Government Gazette
financial              loss of government
monitoring             resources
3.1.3 Bill presented to parliament   3. ZICA annual report
3.1.3 Revise State Audit     by 12/00
Act
3.1.4 Bill presented to parliament  4. Company published accounts
3.1.4   Revise State         by 06/00
Finance Act
3.1.5   50% increase in number   5. Program M&E reports
3.1.5   Strengthen             of registered members by
accountancy            end of Yr. 3
profession



49
MONI TORING
NARRATIVE              KEY PEIIRFORMANCE                 AND EVALUATION                   CRITICAL
SUMMARY                    INDICATOIRS  @          (MEANS OF VERIFICATION)             ASSUMPTIONS
3.1.6 Improve           3.1.6 Improved disclosure in    6. Auditor-General's report
accounting and         published company accounts
auditing standards
3.1.7 Enforce code of    3.1.7 ZICA promulgates the     7. Government Gazette
conduct and ethics    Code; unethical practices
discussed
3.1.8 Revise NATech     3.1.8 New curriculum in place by   8. ZICA annual report         I . Parliament will
curriculum            2001                                                             approve legislation
for the revised state
3.1.9 Localize          3.1.9 Local professional exams by  9. Company published accounts     audit and state
professional exams    2002                                                             finance acts
3.1.10 Improve supply    3.1.10 Project trains 30 qualified    10. Program M&E reports   2. Qualified local
of qualified            by 2002                                                        accountants will
accountants and                                                                        support the
auditors                                                                               development of
ZICA's role in
regulating the
accountancy
profession
3.2 Medium-term
Financial
Framework
(MTFF) in place
Activities:
3.2.1 Finalize design of   3.2.1 Strategies and action plan for  I. MOFED annual budget
MTFF                   implementation of MTFF        guidelines
ready by start of
FY2001/2002
3.2.2 Implement MTFF   3.2.2   MTFF introduced in at    2. Government (yellow) budget
least 7 ministries in       books
2001/2002 and another 7
ministries in 2003       3. Program implementation
progress (M&E) reports
3.3 Treasury
mar.agement
improved
Activities:
3.3.1 Desigrn IFMIS    3.3.1 System design completed     I   Program implementation
by March 2001                   reports (M&E)
3.3.2 Design CAATS      3.3.2 System design complete by   2    Strategy reports for systems
March 2001                      design and implementation



50
3.3.3 Modernize         3.3.3 Implementation of new
financial                system commences by April
management               2001
system
3.3.4 Pilot IFMIS
3.3.4 IFMIS implemented at
3.3.5 Pilot CAATS            MOFED by 2002
3.3.5 CAATS implemented at
MOFED by end of 2002
Accountability and
Transparency
Sub-Component
3.4 Enhance capacity
of OAG
Activities:
3.4.1 Increase number   3.4.1 # OAG staff trained by 2002  Program reports
of trained public
service audit staff
3.4.2 Supply and install  3.4.2 Increased frequency and
equipment                   regularity of audit reports
3.5  Improve OAG's
infrastructure
Activities:
3.5.1 Complete          3.5.1 Training center opens for use  Program reports
construction/renov      by 2002
ations to training
center
3.5.2 Equip training    3.5.2 Training center equipped by
facilities              2002
3.5.3 Refurbish OAG     3.5.3 Improved quality and
head office and         timeliness of OAG reports
regional offices
3.6  OAG operational
in all provinces
Activities:
3.6.1 Train audit       3.6.1 All provinces staffed with    1. Program reports
managers in all         qualified audit managers by
provinces               2002



51
MONITORING
NARRIATEVr             KEY PERFORMANCE                  AND EVALUATION                  CRITICAI.
SiUMMARIY                 INDICATORS              (MEANS OF VERIFICATION)            ASSUMPTIONS
3.6.2 Procure priority    3.6.2 Improved scope, quality and  2. Audit reports compiled by
equipment and         timeliness of audit reports    provincial audit teams
working tools          for the provincial audit
offices
3.7 Independence of
OAG enhanced
Activities:
3.7.1 Conduct study of   3.7.1 Study completed according    1. Program records/report  Political will and
current OAG           to TORs by 2000                                            commitment to
independence,                                                                    strengthen the mandate
models in other                                                                  of the AG
countries, and
develop
recommendations
3.7.2 Strategy to      3.7.2 Action plan drafted       2. Program M&E report
increase independence
developed
3.8 Improve
performance of the                                Program reports and records
Public Accounts
Committee (PAC)
Activities:
3.8.1 Conduct study of
current PAC      3.8.1 Study completed according
performance,         to TORs
models in other
countries, and
develop
recommendations
3.8.2 Strategy and action
plan to improve  3.8.2 Final draft strategy agreed
performance of
PAC
3.8.3 Implementation of
performance      3.8.3 Implementation commences
improvement plan      by 2001
Transparency Sub-
Component
3.9 Enhance capacity of
Zambia National
Tender Board
(ZNTB)



52
Activities:
3.9.1 Increase number   3.9.1 Minimum of 50 trained    Program records and reports
of trained staff in    according to training plan
ZNTB
3.9.2 Procure priority    3.9.2 Equipment purchased
equipment and         according to procurement
working tools for     plan
ZNTB
3.10 Strengthen
Procurement
Support Unit
System
3.10.1 Establish PSU's   3.10.1 Ten PSUs established by    Program evaluation / audit
in priority            year 2 of program
ministries
3.11  Strengthen
Procurement
Support Units
(PSUs)                                           Program records
3.1 1.1 Increase number   3.11.1 20 PSU staff are trained
of trained PSU
staff
3.11.2 Procure priority   3.11.2 Equipment provided to
equipment and           PSUs according to agreed
working tools for       plan
PSUs
3.12  Strengthen
linkages between
PSUs and ZNTB
Program records / audit
3.12.1 Develop and     3.12.1 On-line exchanges of data
install IT system       and information between
and network             ZNTB and PSUs is
between ZNTB            conducted by year 3
and PSUs
COMPONENT 4: Improved Capacity of the Judicial and Legal System
Judiciary Sub-
Component
4.1  Increase in                                       Program quarterly reports       Sufficient appreciation of
number of trained                                                                 efficiency gains through
judiciary staff                                                                   improved governance
present among key
stakeholders



53
MONITORING
NARRATIVE              KEY PERFORMANCE                   AND EVALUATION                   CRITICAL
SUMMARY                    INDICATORS               (MFANS OF VERIFICATION)            ASSUMPTIONS
Activities:
4.1.1 Provide training to  4.1.1 #ofstafftrained
magistrates and
judges
4.1.2 Provide training to  4.1.2 # of staff trained
staff involved in
judicial
administration
4.1.3 Provide trainingto  4.1.3 #of staff trained
local court
magistrates
4.1.4 Provide training    4.1.4 #of staff trained
to judiciary
management staff
4.2 Improve Judiciary
Infrastructure
Activities:
4.2.1 Rehabilitate      4.2.1 Three court facilities    4.2.1 Audit report/inspection
existing court         rehabilitated
buildings
4.2.2 Equip court       4.2.2 Priority equipment provided  4.2.2 Procurement reports
facilities
4.3 Improve processing
of litigation
Activities:
4.3.1 Redesign work
processes for civil  4.3.1 New processes developed
and criminal            and agreed
registries
4.3.2 Document new
procedures in new       4.3.2 Final draft of Handbook
"Judiciary Legal        produced by end of Year 3 of
Assistants Handbook"    program
Legal Sub-
Component
4.4  Improve legal
framework and
institutional
coordination



54
Activities: ____
4.4.1 Collate legislation   4.4.1 Consult report          1. Government gazette
4.4.2 Solicit public input  4.4.2  Public workshops and   2. Program M&E Reports
seminars held
4.4.3 Develop
consensus among key     4.4.3 Decision reached at         3. Workshop reports; quarterly
stakeholders on required       workshop attended by           program reports
improvements                   MOLA, OAG, MHA,
judiciary, ACC, HRC, etc.
4.5 Train professional
staff in MOLA,
MHA, judiciary,
ACC, HRC, etc.
Activities:
4.5.1  Targeted staff   4.5.1 Fifteen staff attend courses    1. Program M&E report
attend short courses
in legislative
drafting, law
revision, and
advanced
prosecution
4.5.2 Targeted staff    4.5.2 Six staff attend courses    2. Training reports
receive tramiing in
international law
4.5.3 Develop systems    4.5.3 New procedures and
and procedures in        systems documented
MOLA for
submission of legal
opinions
4.5.4 Design in-service    4.5.4  Syllabus for training
training courses for      courses finalized
MOLA legal staff
4.6.1 Vehicles procured          1. Audit/ Inspection reports
4.6.2 Equipment procured and     2. Procurement reports
installed
4.6.3 Equipment maintained and
receive recommended
service and repairs



55
MONITORING
NARRATIVE               KENY PERFORMANCE                 AND) EVALUATION                  CRITICAL
SUMMARY'                   INDICAT'IORS             (MEANS OF VERIFICATION)           ASSUMPTIONS
,....... ....... .. ..
COMPONENT 5: Decentralization and Participatory Development
Decentralization Sub-
Component                                                                                Government is able to
develop and articulate
5.1 Improve local                                                                        clear decentralization
capacity to make                                                                     policy
decisions and
deliver services
Activities:
5.1.1 Assess local      5.1.1 Consulting report         1. Program files; quarterly report
administration           summarizes capacity of
capacity to              local administration of all
implement                provinces
decentralization                                    2. Workshop records; quarterly
reports
5.1.2 Develop strategy   5.1.2 Strategy agreed and drafted
for building                                        3. Program files; quarterly report
capacity of local
administration staff
5.1.3 Design medium-   5.1.3 Action plan agreed and
term action plan for     drafted
decentralization
Participatory
Development Sub-
Component
5.2 Capacity of civil
society
organizations to
participate in
public service
reform dialogue
strengthened
Activities:
5.2.1 Local research    5.2.1 Five studies conducted by
institute funded to     Year 3 of program; three
conduct studies         focus group sessions
and focus groups        conducted on relevant
topics



56
Objective (Phase 2)
Development
Objective(s): Jul '03 -
Jun '07
Results-oriented    *  Management systems
management              (personnel, finance,
systems rolled out      procurement, establishment
and pay, policy, accounting,
auditing, and monitoring and
evaluation) designed and
rolled out
* New set of "Quick Wins"
achieved
* Supporting procedures and
manuals for new management
systems developed
* Targeted skills training
* Testing and evaluation of new
management systems
* Refinements and/or
adjustments to new
management systems
Project (Phase 3)
Development
Objective(s): Jul '07 -
Jun '12
Continuous          *  Client input on service
Improvement -           delivery formalized
Results-oriented    *  Performance auditing becomes
management              routine
institutionalized   *  Targeted (as opposed to
general) training provided
*  Performance Improvement
training fund established



57
Annex 2: Detailed Program Description
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
This summary of the program is based upon detailed descriptions prepared as part of GRZ's PSCAP
Strategy and Action Plan. Additional details for specific activities to be carried out under each component
are included in Annex 1, which is presented in logical framework format. Cost figures refer to Phase I of
the APL.
Program Component 1: Right-sizing, Pay Reform and Private Sector Participation-US$14 million
The principal objective of this component is to bring about the restructuring necessary to rationalize the
functions of government and to generate the financial resources needed to begin to create the pay
incentives needed to motivate staff.
1. Overview
During the last few years, the GRZ has been actively working to reduce and realign staff in the public
service. This has been done to meet the needs of a financially viable wage bill and in response to
pressures for more efficient and effective delivery of basic government services. In 1997, government
employees numbered 136,000. The current, immediate, target the GRZ is attempting to reach by the year
2000 is 112,500
As at December 1, 1998, government employees numbered 119,000-the result of the separation of over
15,000 Classified Employees (casual workers), and net natural attrition amounting to about 1,000. The
next round of reductions is expected to bring the employment numbers down to the targeted 112,500
level. These reductions will primarily be targeted at core bureaucracy rather than front-line program-
delivery staff, such as teachers and health workers. Current projections are for reductions to be carried
out as follows:
*  The planned creation of executive agencies will reduce civil service numbers by 3,744
*  It is expected that a further 500 reductions will be identified through restructuring analyses
  Indications of acceptance of voluntary separation have been received from at least 645 employees
*  Net natural attrition, including retirement will account for another 355 reductions.
In addition to these strategies, the GRZ will focus on improvements in efficiency and effectiveness, which
is being addressed through the restructuring process. Restructuring aims to orient ministries toward the
provision of only essential government services, and to ensure that only necessary staff is retained.
Through work already carried out in restructuring of ministries under the past phase of the PSRP, 35
entities have been identified for potential divestiture. Already, studies have been completed for 22 such
entities, and 4 of these studies have been approved by Cabinet for implementation By the end of the
Phase, a target of at least 12 of these entities will be divested.
The program will also target to improve the systems used to manage and control personnel and salaries
with short term emphasis on providing the information and procedures for getting the structure and size of
the service under control. In particular, priority in Phase I will be developing and implementing payroll
and establishment control systems.
Under this component the issues of public service pay will be addressed. During Phase 1, emphasis will
be on ensuring the transparency and equity of the compensation system through the monetization of



58
in-kind benefits and consolidation of these and non-salary allowances into a salary. These measures will
also reveal the true structure of the compensation system and the actual level of salary decompression.
2. Background
Attempts so far to reduce the civil service to its "right-size" have resulted in a number of unexpected
problems. These include: low take-up of voluntary packages, financial difficulties in accessing funds to
pay separated employees their benefits, and pressure to increase the number of public employees in the
areas of basic social services and law and order.
Nevertheless, a general staff hiring freeze has been in effect for specific social program groups as well as
the regular administrative staff of the government, although special provisions apply. For instance for
every three employees who leave the service, only one new person can be hired. In this way the GRZ is
controlling the size of programs through controls on expansion. Further actions like the devolution of
responsibilities for hospitals and health workers onto provincial and district boards will be examined for
similar potential initiatives in the other social programs.
Africa's low private sector and economic growth rates are reflected in Zambia's economic performance.
For this reason, an attractive retrenchment package is required to coax civil servants to voluntarily leave
the Public Service and seek (or create) opportunities in the private sector.  This conclusion is
substantiated by the marginal success of a 1998 initiative to reduce the size of the Public Service. At that
time, employees, especially those with more than ten years service, did not find the package offered at
that time sufficiently attractive to tempt them to leave public service.
Thus, reductions to date have predominantly removed the easier target groups (e.g. classified employees).
The process from now on will require analysis of specific individuals and organizations, such as is
occurring in the restructuring evaluations of individual ministries. These analyses identify potential
functions and people which can be removed, restructured, or reduced, with the eventual impact of fewer
staff being involved.
Having said that, there are some areas of government where social needs have created pressures for more
services and by extension, more staff. This is true in the health, education, agriculture and security
(police and prison officers) sectors. Employees in these areas already make up more than 65% of the
entire public service. The GRZ recognizes these pressures (e.g., to increase the number of health workers
to come closer to WHO international standards). However, its initial strategy is to remove inefficient and
ineffective workers, provide services closer to the user, and provide an environment supportive of stable
economic growth. Prior to an evaluation of the efficacy of these measures, it is not possible to estimate
accurately the measures that will still be needed.
3. Phase 1
GRZ has designed the Right-Sizing component of PSCAP to increase the GRZ's ability to manage and control
the size and composition of the public service, and carry out its core functions more efficiently and effectively.
Moreover, a major focus of the component will be the development of employee remuneration rates that are
financially sustainable and capable of maintaining acceptable levels of skills and qualifications within the
Public Service. The main elements of the strategy for this Phase will be to:
(a) Further reduce the size of the Public Service
A critical first step will be to develop potential scenarios and outcomes for various policy options. This
will entail assembling firm numbers for each possible action, including the implications on the wage bill
of any resizing or changes to employee emoluments (e.g. decompression). Rules will be established for
determining the actual monetary value of employee emoluments (i.e. what is an income-related allowance



59
and what is not).  The information established in this way will become the base against which the
scenarios and options evolving from the other activities will be assessed. Specific implementation
activities will include:
*    Targeting specific groups or types of individuals for separation;
*    Divesting the public service of staff carrying out functions which are no longer needed or which can
be carried out by others ( private sector or local governments); and
*    Providing separation benefits and a social safety net.
*    Restructure and rationalize the Public Service
Ministerial structures will be reviewed further, as well as structures of other government institutions,
including local government, and the relationships between functions and staff numbers and skills will be
established. One of the aspects of the analysis will be the potential for divestiture of functions. Ways to
address the specific problems associated with the social programs (education, health, agriculture and
security) will be examined. For instance, the implications of re-deploying teachers from over-staffed
urban schools, to rural areas, and the results of possible changes in the student/teacher ratios.
(b) Divest non-core functions
The approach to divestiture under Phase 1 includes, in the first instance, studies to identify the next round
of entities to hive off, to develop options for modalities of divestiture and to support the implementation
of these divestitures. Already, studies have been completed for 22 such entities, of which four have been
approved by Cabinet for implementation. Should enabling legislation be needed to carry out the
divestiture, any needed analysis, options development, or legislation drafting necessary will be provided.
By the end of the Phase, a target of at least 15 of these entities will be divested. The strategy for the
component will entail:
e  Continued analysis in administrative departments, as well as provincial and local authorities
*  Further reviews and analyses in program departments such as education, health, agriculture and
security
*  Hiving-off functions which can be performed by others, or which are no longer needed
(c) Enhance Private Sector Participation
Phase 1 of the project will also support enhancing of private sector participation in two important
respects. First, by funding the Zambia Privatization Agency (ZPA) to complete the privatization of public
enterprises, with the bulk of the funding to carry out studies of the thirteen additional companies slated for
privatization and government departments that might be privatized. Secondly, by strengthening the
capacities of the Zambia Investment Centre and the Zambia National Tourist Board to promote and
facilitate increased private sector investments. Specific support to be provided to this institutions will
include:
*  Technical and consultancies, including contract hire of temporary professional specialists;
*  Training of professional staff, including relevant study tours;
*  Vehicles and office equipment;
*  Communication and promotion materials.
(d) More effectively management of the payroll and establishment
The various related systems used to manage and control personnel and salaries are necessary for day-to-
day management of the service, but particularly in the short term for providing the information and
procedures for getting the shape and size of the service under control. Immediate developments will be



60
focused on providing for the needs of the right-sizing programs. Specific activities to be carried out in this
sub-component will include:
*  Developing an implementing payroll and establishment control systems;
*  Decentralizing payroll activities;
*  Creating monitoring mechanisms to ensure financial and physical compliance; and
*  Establishment of financially sustainable wage bill policies, given new salary structures and potential
salary decompression.
(e) Pay reform
Under this component the issues of public service pay will be addressed. During Phase 1, emphasis will
be on ensuring the transparency and equity of the compensation system through the monetization of in-
kind benefits and consolidation of these and non-incidental allowances into a basic salary. These
measures will also reveal the true structure of the compensation system and the actual level of salary
decompression. On this basis, Phase 2 of the component can focus enhancing salaries towards minimum
living wage, decompressing the structure so that salaries for technical and professional staff are relatively
competitive and introducing a policy mechanism to ensure preservation of the purchasing power of
public service pay levels.
Intense coordination will be required between the different elements of this component, and a major
priority will be the creation of the links between the personnel, pay, grading and establishment systems.
The hiring freeze will be continued during Phase I, with exceptions for specific skill areas being assessed
with regard to the impact on the total numbers target and the wage bill limits. It is expected that by the
end of Phase I all of the tools will be in place for management to control and maintain the size of the
public service, and the size of the associated wage bill.
4. Phase 2
Right-sizing activities will effectively be concluded during the second phase of PSCAP and the benefits
arising from the right-sizing will begin to be observed towards the end of the same phase. Further
implementation of divestiture program will also continue. In addition, the payroll and complements and
gradings register are to be upgraded during Phase II.
5. Phase 3
The third phase will focus on periodic assessment and evaluation of the benefits of the right-sizing and
the rationalized structure of the Public Service. In addition, the impact of the divestiture and the
implementation of an effective payroll and establishment-control system will be assessed. On the basis of
the evaluations, strategies to sustain the benefits will be develop and implemented. Adjustments, if and
where required, will also be made.  It is anticipated that at this stage, right-sizing will be an
institutionalized feature of govemment operations, through the continued focus on activities to make
ministries more efficient and effective.
Program Component 2: Policy and Public Service Management-US$8 million
The principal objectives of this component are to establish policy formulation and performance
monitoring as the focus of the core of government and to develop the capacity of the core to manage the
transformation of the public service to meet PSCAP 's long term purpose, more efficient and effective
delivery ofpublic services.



61
1. Component Overview
As the public service streamlines and decentralizes, Ministries will be relieved of many of their direct
service-delivery responsibilities. However, it is imperative that the remaining, and sometimes new,
functions that they are to perform, such as policy development and sector monitoring, be carried out to
very high standards. Indeed, as the role of govemment recedes and the private sector grows, government's
task of creating an environment supportive of sustainable economic development is of vital importance.
To accomplish this, Ministries must clarify their mission and ensure that all within and outside their
organizations understand their new function; organizational structures and staffing patterns must be
modified to support this change; civil servants must adopt new systems and approaches to carry out their
work; and finally, organizations and individuals must be held accountable for the achievement of agreed
results.
The Public Service and Policy Management Component, which is designed to support this change
process, is comprised of two sub-components: Performance Management and Policy Management. Each
is summarized below:
2. Performance Management Sub-Component Description
A. Background
The Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) launched by President Chiluba in 1993 aimed primarily at
improving the quality, delivery, efficiency and effectiveness of public services. To accomplish this
objective, three components of activity were conceived: restructuring the public service; improving
management and human resources development; and strengthening local government. GRZ activities for
PSRP were supplemented by UNDP and IrishAid initiatives. With UJNDP support, restructuring plans
were prepared for all ministries. IrishAid assisted in piloting performance management in six Ministries
and local government strengthening in one town.
Despite these efforts, sustainable performance management systems have not yet taken root in the public
service. This is true for a number of reasons. Management decision-making in the GRZ is frequently
concentrated at high levels. Human resource management decisions are over-centralized. There is a lack
of effective and coherent management systems across government, and insufficient opportunities to
improve skills and knowledge through training and exposure to new approaches from outside the system.
Performance and feedback have not been systematically measured, nor has good or bad performance been
recognized. For many managers, the horizon for decision-making has become closer and closer over time
as resource constraints narrow options for action .
The particular focus for this sub-component is the development of a strategic-level management capacity.
Strategic management has been constrained in the GRZ due to the need to respond to regular operational
problems, including budget shortfalls. Thus, long-term planning and attaining long-term objectives have
been assigned lower priority, having in many cases been replaced by crisis management. Moreover, the
uncertainty attached to the flow of operating funds to departments has exacerbated this short-term
management approach. The Performance Management sub-component seeks to redress this situation,
and maximize benefits brought about through other major improvements being undertaken through
PSCAP and elsewhere in the GRZ system. In addition, PSCAP aims to improve the professionalism and
management capacity of the GRZ.
B. Phase 1
This sub-component is largely focused on training for senior managers in exercising their strategic
management skills, and will be complementary to the development of a number of systems that will



62
enhance their operational capacity to plan, budget, implement and monitor activities. It has five main
thrusts:
(ii) Enhanced performance in priority services
Activities undertaken to enhance performance will be supported primarily by a Performance Improvement
Fund (PIF), which will be created and administered through PSCAP. The PIF will be a flexible
instrument used to fund ministry-led programs to improve priority services. A total of seven targeted
ministries will have access to PIF support during Phase I of PSCAP. To access the PIF, a ministry will
have initially to revisit its existing strategic plan and ensure that the plan explicitly reflects specific "quick
wins" - that is, activities where very visible and rapid organizational improvements are possible. The
Fund will provide resources to meet the direct costs of implementing strategically identified performance
improvement plans and key capacity-building interventions.  (More complete discussion of the
Performance Improvement Fund appears in Annex 12 of this document.) To augment PIF-funded
activities, Performance Management Packages will be piloted in the seven targeted ministries.
(iii) Creating a gender-sensitive public service
PSCAP is committed to creating an environment in the public service where career advancement and
respect are tied to performance - and not gender. An early activity will be the commissioning of a
baseline survey to assess the status of women in the public service. Other planned activities include
sensitization training for senior managers regarding gender issues and career development training for
women public servants.
(iv) Results-oriented public service management
Planned activities are supportive of other performance-enhancing initiatives. For example, a manual for
the Appraisal and Performance Assessment System (APAS) will be produced. This individual-oriented
performance system will support other efforts through which organization performance targets are set and
assessed. In addition, local trainers will be trained to conduct performance management courses.
(v)  Strategic management in the public service
A series of strategic management training courses will be created and conducted for managers throughout
the civil service.
(vi)   AIDS and its impact on the public service
A study will be conducted to determine the impact of AIDS on the productivity and composition of the
public service. This study will serve as input to a proposed strategy for responding to the crisis.
C. Phase 2
During Phase 2, performance-related systems will be in place and operational. This will enable the
management cadre to fully implement the performance- and strategy-focused aspects of their
responsibilities. Should the Phase I strategy be found effective, performance pilots and Performance
Improvement Fund support will be expanded from the first initial six ministries to the rest of the public
service.
D. Phase 3
In the third phase, all public service ministries and departments will be encouraged through various
initiatives to perform in accordance with agreed performance targets and in line with their defined



63
responsibilities.  Training courses specifically focused on managing in a performance-oriented
environment will be a main feature of these initiatives. Improved performance management systems will
be fully institutionalized to contribute to cost-effective public service delivery.
3. Policy Management Sub-Component Description
A. Background
Since 1992, the Zambian government has undertaken a number of measures aimed at improving the
capacity of its public service and strengthening the framework for policy formulation, analysis,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation. Some of these measures include the creation of a Policy
Analysis and Coordination Division (PAC) in Cabinet Office; development of new systems and
procedures for policy formulation; a new format for Cabinet Memoranda; institutionalization of inter-
ministerial committees of officials (IMCOs); identification of Cabinet Liaison Officers in ministries;
updating the Cabinet Handbook to reflect these innovations and then declassifying it so that it could be
widely distributed; and upgrading legal management at the Ministry of Legal Affairs and the judiciary.
Despite these important improvements, there remains much more to do to bring the country's policy
performance to desired levels. A key indicator is the rate of implementation of government's policy
decisions - which continues to be low. The reasons for this are as follows. First, although it is primarily
the responsibility of ministry staff to formulate policy positions to be considered by the Cabinet, few in
the ministries have received the type of training that would equip them with the skills to generate and
evaluate alternative policy positions. As a result, policy proposals generally reflect weak analytic rigor.
Second, mechanisms are not in place through which beneficiaries, implementers and other stakeholders
can effectively participate in policy discussions. This has contributed to low levels of ownership and
understanding of the trade-offs that influence policy decisions. Third, systems and' skills are not adequate
in place in the public service to cost out policy options or to verify whether adequate resources are
available to fund implementation of preferred policy options. This means that implementation of
otherwist sound policy decisions often fails to get off the ground due to resource constraints. Fourth,
protocols for analyzing the consistency of policy proposals with existing laws are not well developed.
Finally, institutional and individual capacity is not well developed to organize the implementation of
policy decisions, monitor the long-run impact, or to develop mid-course corrections.
PSCAP aims to improve the capacity within the GRZ to formulate, analyze, and implement policies.
Consistent with the "design and pilot" nature of Phase 1 of PSCAP, activities under the Policy
Management Sub-Component focus on designing and piloting a policy monitoring system that is able to
track both implementation and impact of policies; and designing and piloting an in-service, policy-
oriented training program for public servants. In addition, emphasis is placed on strengthening skills and
systems to ensure: stronger linkages between policy proposals and budgetary constraints; critical legal
analysis of policy proposals; and continuous upgrading of analytic and coordination approaches.
B. Phase 1
The Policy Sub-Component in Phase 1 has five main thrusts:
(i) Strengthening the linkages between the policy-making and budget processes
Calibrating the policy-making and budgeting processes requires a high level of commitment,
collaboration and cooperation across the public service. A key strategy to support this objective is the
activation of a task force comprised of representatives from the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development (MOFED), Cabinet Office's Policy Analysis and Coordination (PAC) Division, the line
ministries, and others involved in the budget process. Under the task force's supervision, studies will be



64
carried out to analyze the current processes and procedures and develop recommended courses of action.
Such actions include the establishment of procedures for MOFED's financial analysis of Cabinet
Memoranda and feedback mechanisms to MOFED relevant to policy decisions and status of policy
implementation.
(ii) Enhancing the capacity for legal advice in the policy process
Similar to the need to establish better policy-budget linkages is the need to ensure the coherence of
government policy with current law. As there is presently no agreed approach or format for the legal
analysis of policy documents, Phase I activities will focus on the development of protocols, systems and
procedures at the Ministry of Legal Affairs for developing and rendering legal opinions on policy
proposals. (This activity will be coordinated with complementary activities under the Judicial and Legal
Component.)
(iii) Strengthening policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation procedures
The most critical element of this stream of activities is the development of a policy monitoring system
that will permit sectoral ministries to manage and coordinate the implementation of policy decisions while
providing the Cabinet information that will help them to understand the broader impacts of their
decisions. In addition to the design and piloting of the policy monitoring system, an evaluation of the
current systems and mechanisms for policy development and coordination is an early priority. New
systems and mechanisms for sharing and aggregating data to inform the policy-formulation process will
be developed. Finally, computer technology will be introduced to improve management of and access to
Cabinet and policy documentation.
(iv) Improving the understanding and skills throughout the public service of the GRZ policy process
The cornerstone of this element is the design and institutionalization of capacity in Zambia to provide in-
service, policy-centered training programs for civil servants, permanent secretaries, ministers and deputy
ministers. This training program will provide introductory information on policy and the Cabinet policy-
making system, specific information on the Zambian policy process (drafting Cabinet Memoranda, the
function of Cabinet Liaison Officers, etc.), and skill building in such areas as policy analysis, monitoring
and evaluation. Supportive of this objective is infrastructure improvements and training of trainers at
local training institution(s). (Note: While Phase 1 focuses on developing the training modules and the
capacity to deliver them, the bulk of the actual training beyond piloting is to be carried out under
subsequent phases.) In addition to the development of training capacity, another initiative will be carried
out to create protocols and provide limited assistance to line ministries for the development ofsectoral
policy statements/documents. Supplementary to the in-country training and assistance are external
opportunities to build skills and understanding. These include attendance of key policy-oriented public
servants at international short courses, conferences and workshops.
(v) Improving transparency, accountability and participation in the GRZ policy process
One vestige of outdated approaches to governance is the extreme secrecy that remains in the system. This
has greatly hindered the efficient and effective function of the country's policy system.  The
declassification of the Cabinet Handbook in the mid-1990's was a step in the right direction; however,
many of the remaining requirements for secrecy-secrecy beyond that necessary-continue to hinder the
quality of policy decisions and access to the policy process. To address this, the current classification
system is to be reviewed and revised in Phase 1.



65
C. Phase 2
Activities tentatively proposed for Phase 2 correspond to the same five objectives or "main thrusts" noted
above. Most of the proposed actions build on and broaden the initiatives begun under Phase 1. For
example, procedures developed under Phase I for reviewing Cabinet Memoranda from a legal and
budgetary point of view will be introduced to the relevant personnel through training and hands-on
assistance. Likewise, the in-service policy-centered training programs developed and piloted under Phase
1 will be rolled out and made available during Phase 2 to a broad cross section of policy-oriented public
servants. And transparency, accountability and public participation efforts will focus on the development
of mechanisms for public debate and input on policies and policy proposals.
D. Phase 3
During Phase 3, efforts will focus on sustaining improved systems for the policy process. Evaluation of
the policy process will also be undertaken by periodic reviews aimed at providing the basis for continuous
improvements in the pclicy process. It is anticipated that by the third phase of PSCAP, policies
developed will reflect the priorities and needs of the Zambian public and economy. Government's
performance in policy implementation is also anticipated to improve through technically stronger policies
that are broadly owned.
Program Component 3: Financial Management, Accountability and Transparency: US$16 million
The two principal objectives of this component are to develop the capacity to allocate and spend public
resources in accordance with the Medium Term Financial Framework and to improve the accountability
of public servants to spend and deliver services in accordance with the priorities established in the
MTFF.
1. Overview
The basic thrust of this component is to build capacity for strategic management of public financial
resources. A broad perspective of capacity building is adopted, to include: developing the relevant
management systems, improving the operating environment and introducing effective incentives and
sanctions to enforce transparency and accountability in public finance management and procurement.
A recent Bank review has elaborated the link between poor management of public expenditures and fiscal
problems. The review also explains that these problems are deeply rooted in historical experience and the
resulting structure of the economy. Therefore, sustained long-term measures are needed to address these
fiscal problems'. Through the financial management component, PSCAP will provide the technical
support for planning and implementing fiscal reform measures on a long-term basis.
Through the Financial and Legal Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP; IDA Cr. 2535ZA), the Bank
has in recent years supported the development of the accounting and financial management in the country.
Through FILMIJP support, local training institutions have been able to considerably expand their output
of accounting professionals and technicians. The project has aided the development of the Zambia
Institute of Chartered Accountants. The institute will develop, promote and enforce accounting and
financial management professional standards and ethics in the country.  PSCAP will sustain the
achievements made by FILMUP. However, PSCAP will adopt a more demand-driven approach in
supporting the training and development of the accounting professionals and technicians. Also, PSCAP
will focus on the need to build and maintain capacity for financial management in the public service.
The World Bank Africa Region Macroeconomics 1, Republic of Zambia: Fiscal Management Report, Draft
Report No 18552, November 1998.



66
Further, this component will introduce, institutionalize and sustain a culture of transparency and
accountability into the public service.  Initial activities concentrate on building awareness and
understanding in the principal organizations responsible for ensuring that GRZ processes are transparent
and that employees are to be held accountable for their actions.
2. Background
Zambia's -economy deteriorated continually from mid-1970s to the end of the 1980s. Then a vicious
circle of fiscal instability, underfunding of the approved budget, erosion of real compensation and other
incentives for public servants, fiscal indiscipline and breakdown of systems and controls for public
finance management took hold. In the 1990s, Government has adopted measures to stabilize the economy
and reinstate fiscal discipline. Among these measures, beginning 1992, were the structural adjustment
programs with the basic objective to reduce the public expenditure framework to levels more consistent
with fiscal stability. In response to the breakdown in the systems and controls for budget execution and
public expenditure management, Government introduced "cash budgeting" in 1993. There have also been
initiatives to improve the budgeting system, through a project in activity-based budgeting at the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Development.
However, past initiatives to build capacity and improve systems and practice have been too narrow, short-
term and fragmented to achieve significant and sustainable success. It is noteworthy that there has been
no donor-sponsored initiative in support of improvements in accounting system in recent years. The
Bank-supported FILMUP project has succeeded in increasing the supply of accounting technicians and
professional for Zambia's private sector, and to a much lesser extent, in the Government. As observed in a
recent World Bank review of fiscal management in Zambia, budget reforms have not only lacked a
2
strategic framework, but also suffered from weak political support .
It is further observed in the Bank review that the Government's fiscal management capacity and
performance remain extremely weak. According to the review, in summary, specific problems in the
public finance management system include the following:
Inefficient and ineffective allocation of resources because the planning and budgeting system does
not entail objective and clear definition of strategic priorities and choices;
*   Loss and waste of resources abated by the collapse of fiscal discipline and weak systems for checks
and balances;
*   The systems, policies, rules and regulations are outdated and inconsistent with changes elsewhere in
the public service or/and modern management practices. For example, the government accounting
system remains predominantly manual;
*   Many public service managers have experienced frustration and lost trust in policies and systems. Ad
hoc decisions made in the middle of the budget process undermine trust in the fiscal system as well
as discipline. They can be quite skeptical of reform measures;
*   The staff responsible for planning, budgeting, accounting and financial management systems
generally do not have the requisite qualifications and skills, and like most public servants, suffer
from low morale, due to poor pay and work environment;
2 The World Bank (ibid)



67
Historically, the country has had a comparatively weak supply of professionals and technicians in the
accounting and financial management fields. The Government's past and current compensation
levels cannot attract qualified personnel to join and remain in the public service.
Furthermore, until now GRZ management systems have not engendered either transparency or
accountability. Managers have generally kept decision-making at relatively high levels, and have
developed, at these levels, a consensual/committee approach which, together with the lack of clear annual
personal or institutional objectives, dilutes the concept of accountability. This approach was developed in
response to a large low-paid work force, which has had little in the way of training or skill enhancement.
Consequently, skill levels drop off rapidly at each hierarchical step down the organization. Moreover,
there have been few mechanisms in place to monitor and systematically evaluate performance in these
areas. A leaner, more qualified, better paid public service will, however, be expected to be more
accountable, at all levels, for performance and decisions.
The problems outlined above cannot be effectively addressed by any one sector in the public service.
While the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED) must provide the leadership, all
central government agencies have a major contribution to make. For example, the role of the Cabinet
Office in reinstating discipline, through appropriate sanctions and incentives cannot be downplayed.
Effective fiscal management reform also requires that public service managers at all levels, from the
ministry level down to service delivery centers, adopt a strong sense of integrity and accountability for the
use of public resources.
3. Phase 1
The component will support the planning, design and implementation of a comprehensive fiscal
management reform program. A Bank review cited earlier underscores the need for immediate action to
improve the fiscal management system in three areas:
*   Tightening control over extra-budgetary funds in, among others, grant-aided institutions, local
authorities, special funds and pension funds;
*   Improving budget management, entailing expenditure cuts and increasing the efficiency of
govemment expenditures;
*   Improving the cash budget system in the short term. Problems to be overcome in this regard include:
weak enforcement of financial regulations; diminishing motivation to comply with the cash budget;
inadequate training of government accountants, and continued over-committing of funds which
increases arrears and the long term fiscal imbalances.
There are a nimber of prerequisites for an effective and transparent system that has built-in mechanisms
for accountability. These include:
*   An awareness and understanding in the work force of accountability and how it is to be enforced;
*   An awareness and understanding of transparency in the decision-making process;
*   Improved morale of Government employees, especially through enhancement of pay to levels
commensurate with qualifications, skills, experience and responsibility.
Special attention will be paid to strengthening internal controls in the current manual accounting
procedures, as a basis for modernization of the system in subsequent phases. At the same time, the project
will support those activities constituting a logical follow up to the FILMUP, including supporting
ZICA's strategic initiatives, and availing resources for properly targeted training of accountants and
technicians in the public sector.



68
Developing a detailed strategic framework for long-term reform of the fiscal management system willIbe
the other priority activity for this component in Phase I of the project. The cornerstones of this framework
will include: the MTFF-based budget system; computer-based system of funds management and
accounting, and a strategy for government institutions to be phased-out of the "cash-budget" system.
Progress in each of these areas will be a crucial complement to the other two. They will also be important
for sustaining implementation of other components of the PSCAP, such as the performance management,
policy and decentralization components. There are many stakeholders in these developments. Therefore, a
broadly participatory process will be important in developing and obtaining consensus on this framework.
On the basis of such an approach, Zambia will avoid the fragmented and ineffective public accounting
and financial management reforms that many SSA countries have attempted over the past decade. Once
this strategic framework is in place, then systems can be specified for budget reform (MTFF) and an
Integrated Government Financial Management Information System (IFMIS).
During Phase 1, piloting of the MTFF and IFMIS, in the context of planned phasing-out of the cash
budget system will commence in at least three key ministries. The scope and targeting of this piloting will
be defined in the process of developing the strategic framework of the fiscal management system. At the
same time, Phase I of PSCAP intends to lay down the foundation for greater transparency and
accountability in GRZ processes, and to assist key institutions that will have central roles in these issues.
With regard to accountability and transparency, Phase I of PSCAP focuses on preparing two key
institutions, i.e., Office of the Auditor General (OAG) and the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) for
their role in ensuring accountability and transparency in the management of public funds. This includes
putting in place the operational framework and management culture within which transparency and
accountability can flourish.
At the broad logical framework level, it has been determined that the key outputs of the component will
comprise the following in Phase 1:
* A Medium Term Financial Framework (MTFF) is adopted for planning and budgeting.
The objective is to install a system that clearly links resources allocation to policy and strategic priorities.
* Modern and more effective accounting systems.
Modem information and communication technologies can vastly improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of the Government's accounting system. Initial steps in this direction were taken in mid-1980s, but were
not sustained.
*  Efficient treasury management system and practices.
The present "cash budgeting" system has curbed the excesses in extra-budgetary spending and thereby
supported achievement of a much-improved fiscal environment. However, this system is not consistent
with ensuring strategic, transparent and fully accountable allocation and use of public resources. The
future treasury management should not only achieve this, but also ensure that there are effective internal
controls for use, safe custody and accounting for public resources;
*  Improved auditing of public institutions
PSCAP will as priority support a legislative review and drafting exercise to enhance the independence of
the Office of auditor General (OAG) from the executive and other public institutions that it has to audit.



69
This legislative reform will encompass changes in the scope and nature of audits, especially in terms of
enabling the AG to undertake value for money audits.
Further, PSCAP will assist the OAG to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of its operations by,
among other measures: (i) training its staff in the state of the art skills, including value for money audits,
and audit of computerized systems; (ii) expanding OAG's reach by decentralizing further from the
present three provinces in which it operates, to the full nine provinces across the country; and (iii) some
infrastructure enhancements will take place to enable the OAG to function effectively.
PSCAP will also strengthen the capacity and effectiveness of the Parliamentary Public Accounts
Committee, so that it is an effective watchdog and enforcer of transparency and accountability in the use
of public resources.
* Improved public procurement systems and practices
The Phase 1 strategy is to improve the capacity of the Zambia National Tender Board, establish additional
procurement units across the public service, improve systems and enforce procurement standards.
4. Phase 2
At the end of Phase 1, the feasibility and effectiveness of the MTFF and IFMIS pilots will have been
demonstrated, and necessary modifications introduced. Therefore, focus of Phase 2 activities will be
rolling-out these systems to all ministries. In tandem, the "cash budgeting" practice will be phased-out,
resulting in restoration of a budgeting and cash disbursement systems that will make available to public
service managers a predictable flow of resources and autonomy for spending decisions within the
stipulated sector policy and strategic priorities. This will facilitate the implementation of project
interventions in other components for linking policy development and implementation to the budget
process, performance management and enhancing accountability.
Phase 2 of PSCAP will build upon the performance and control systems developed in Phase 1, and will
begin the process of spreading the concept of specific accountability across government. Under this
approach, Permanent Secretaries and their management teams will be held accountable for agreed
performance levels stated under the annual planning and budgeting process, the MTFF and long term
planning process, and policy implementation processes. This phase will be used to further refine systems
and processes, and to develop the internal audit and performance monitoring functions to assist the senior
management teams in each ministry.
5. Phase 3
During Phase 3, full automation and integration of the budgeting, treasury management and accounting
systems will be achieved in the framework of the IFMIS.
The focus of Phase 3 will be on implementing and sustaining ethics that foster improved public service
accountability and transparency. The perceptions of the public will be evaluated during this phase. Their
views and preferences relevant to accountability and transparency as a means to foster good ethics will
influence the focus of new initiatives. These might include such actions as the institution of sanctions for
non-compliance with approved procedures in financial management, procurement, etc.
By the third phase, the various systems that make up the accountability framework will be in operation
(e.g., MTFF, policy/planning system, budget/planning system, financial system, establishment control
system, internal/external audit systems, procurement control system) and strong links between the
different systems will be in place. These will form the basis upon which, together with the performance
management systems, accountability and transparency will be monitored.



70
Program Component 4: Judicial and Legal: US$2 million
The principal objectives of this component are to improve the capacity of GRZ to undertake its legislative
agenda and to carry out urgent physical and human capacity building in the Judiciary.
1.     Overview
In recent years, Government has supported measures to strengthen the judiciary and improve the quality
of legal services in the country. In particular, for example, through the World Bank funded FILMUP
project there have been considerable upgrading of the professional skills and facilities in the Judicial and
Legal institutions; significant numbers of both professional and administrative staff in these institutions
have received training; the institutions have also been better equipped, with computers, furniture and
other office equipment, and motor vehicles; a compendium of the Laws of Zambia (1995) has been
prepared; and law libraries in the institutions are much better stocked. Additionally, in recent years: (i)
the Government of the Peoples Republic of China has sponsored the rehabilitation of the High Court; (ii)
the Government of Norway has supported the rehabilitation of two courtrooms in the Supreme Court; and
USAID has provided 1,000 bicycles for use by local court clerks. Consequently, there are significant
improvements in services provided by these institutions.
However, much more remains to be done to improve the capacity and modernize the legal and judicial
systems in Zambia. In this context, therefore, various capacity building measures targeted at the judicial
and legal institutions are planned ender the PSCAP, including:
e   Training ofjudicial and legal officers, especially to acquire specialist knowledge and skills;
*   Providing equipment and other facilities needed for improved performance by the institutions;
-   Improving the systems and practices of processing litigation;
e   Supporting activities to update the legal framework;
-   Strengthening legal advice inputs into the policy-making processes; and
-   Improving the physical infrastructure of the judiciary, especially courts buildings.
2. Background.
The strong need to reform and develop Zambia's judicial and legal system was recognized when Zambia
embarked on political ad economic liberalization, and the path of a market-led economy, at the beginning
of the 1990s. Thus in 1993, with Bank support the Government launched the implementation of a
Financial and Legal Sectors Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP, IDA Cr. No.2535ZA). The
specific objectives of the legal component of the project included: (i) capacity building for the
modernization of the legal framework by training personnel and providing equipment for the institutions
responsible for legal drafting, prosecution and legal aid, including the Ministry of Legal Affairs, the Law
Practice Institute which is now the Zambia Institute of Advanced Legal Education and the Institute of
Legislative Drafting); (ii) improve the administration of justice through staff training and provision of
equipment and facilities, and building or rehabilitating some court buildings; (iii) improving access to
relevant information and knowledge for legal practitioners, especially by supporting the publishing of the
Laws of Zambia, and (iv) improving the systems and facilities for of the Registrar of companies.
Through the FILMUP credit, which closes in December 1999, there has been considerable upgrading of
the professional skills and facilities in the Judicial and Legal institutions in Zambia. Significant numbers
of both professional and administrative staff in these institutions have received training, including post-
graduate degree training in such specialist areas as commercial law. Through the credit, the institutions
have also been better equipped, with computers, furniture and other office equipment, and motor vehicles.
In addition, since 1995 there is a compendium of the Laws of Zambia, and the Law libraries in the



71
Judicial and Legal institutions are much better stocked. On the whole, services provided by these
institutions have significantly improved. Thus, for example, the waiting time for retrieval of information
at the Registrar of Companies has improved from several days to about five minutes only.
Nonetheless, there remain considerable scope for improving the efficiency and quality of administration
of justice and development of legal services in the country. Also, FILMUP did not achieve all the targets
for upgrading the systems and physical facilities in the judicial institutions. Furthermore, development of
the legal system is not keeping pace with the vast social, political, economic and technological changes
taking place at both national and international levels. For example, the legal and judicial systems and
practices need to change to be consistent with developments in electronic commerce. Therefore, need has
been established to support further improvements in the systems and performance of judicial and legal
institutions through PSCAP.
3. Phase 1
Phase 1 interventions in the judicial and legal component will emphasize interventions that can be
expected to result in early and significant improvements in judicial and legal services; i.e. improvements
staff skills, systems and the legal framework. There will also be in this phase preparations for the
implementation of the physical infrastructure developments in the judicial system which are scheduled for
the second and third phases of the program. In other words, during Phase 1, in this, as in other
components, there will be minimal civil works. In this context therefore, Phase I interventions under this
component will yield the following results:
*   Increased numbers of judicial and legal officers trained in specialist skills, with particular emphasis
in the area of commercial law;
*   Improved processing of litigation;
I Improved legal framework and coordination of institutions in the sector;
* Enhanced capacity for legal advice in policy formulation and decision-making processes;
*   Enhanced capacity for Government to carry out investigations; and
*   Improved accommodation and furnishing of a select number of courts or courtrooms.
1. Phase 2 and 3
In this component, Phases 2 and 3 of program will entail doing more of what is initiated under Phase I
above. However, there will be particular focus on capacity building measures geared to ensuring that the
legal system and the judicial processes are fully modernized in order to efficiently and effectively
facilitate, support and regulate the development and operations of private enterprise, and cope with the
evolving global electronic commerce.
Program Component 5: Decentralization: US$0.6 million
The principalpurpose of this component is to preparefor the implementation of the GRZ's Decentralization
Policy.
1. Background
Decentralization is one of the three major themes of PSRP. PSCAP will support this theme in Phase I by
preparing plans to implement GRZ's decentralization policy, continuing to move service provision closer
to citizens and businesses by restructuring the public service and setting up executive agencies, and by
giving civil society a voice in the reform process. As far as strengthening local government and
empowering local communities is concerned, PSCAP, during Phase 1, will in effect be a bridging
operation between the development of GRZ's decentralization policy and other programs that will focus



72
on local government and communities. These might include the Bank's planned support to local
government reform through a separate operation and the establishment of a social investment fund. The
Bank's partners in the preparation of this program, UNDP and IrishAid, are already providing support for
decentralization and will continue to do so.
To date, decentralization policies of the GRZ have aimed at deconcentration of functions from the center.
An example of this approach is in the health sector. As a result of a restructuring analysis, it was decided
to move responsibility for operating hospitals away from the central Ministry of Health, to the Central
Board of Health, Provincial and District health Boards. This process, which has been supported by the
Health Sector Project, has been underway for a number of years. GRZ also plans to strengthen local
government systems. A decentralization policy is being developed by the Government.
The need to strengthen local government has emerged from the very recent round of consultations
between GRZ and groups of citizens in four provinces on the GRZ's governance program. People
complained strongly about the ineffectiveness of local government. The Bank's own sector work on local
government has confirmed this frustration. The need to reform local government also emerged as a major
issue in the CAS consultations.
Although strengthening local government and empowering local communities is clearly an urgent need
and one of the themes of PSRP is decentralization, it was decided by the GRZ's PSCAP preparation team
that PSCAP itself should be supportive of local government reform but not become directly involved.
PSCAP should, as with its support to institutional reforms in other sector, focus on the general systemic
reforms needed for the reforms being undertaken under other operations to be effective. In this instance,
PSCAP will provide a bridge to some planned programs by translating the GRZ's decentralization policy
into an action plan. However, PSCAP will include an activity that will encourage civil society to have a
role in defining what needs to be done to improve services.
2. Phase 1
Decentralization policy. The principal focus in Phase 1 will be on defining the policy and strategy for
implementing decentralization, strengthening local government systems, and drawing up a strategy and
action plan. PSCAP will assist in defining and agreeing on a comprehensive definition of the policy and
a strategy for decentralization and strengthening of local government systems. This will be achieved
through studies to generate proposals and recommendations, which will be subjected to stakeholder
reviews, to achieve consensus where possible. In addition, preparation of an action plan for
decentralization and strengthening of local government systems will also be needed. Initial
implementation of the plan will focus on rationalization of roles and functions, and establishment of
Provincial Administrations.
Citizen involvement. Some funding will be set aside for an independent research institute to carry out
surveys, organize focus groups and otherwise solicit the views of citizens on the quality of service
delivery and ways in which service delivery could be improved through decentralization.
3. Phases 2 and 3
Although it is anticipated that considerable local government reform and community development activity
will take place after Phase 1, PSCAP has does not anticipate a role for itself in this area in Phases 2 and 3.
It is assumed that substantial support for local government reform and community empowerment
activities will take place under other programs, some of which are currently in the development stage.



73
Program Component 6: Program Management: US$4 million
The program management arrangements are described in section C.4 Institutional and Implementation
Arrangements in the main text of the PAD.  Funding will be provided to cover technical assistance,
consultancy, training and equipment costs.



74
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase I)
Rightsizing &Pay Reform                                       I0.1             4.0            140
Policy & Public Service Management                             3.6             4.6             8.4
Financial Management, Accountability & Transparency            6.6             8.6            15.2
Judicial & Legal                                               0.2             0.6             0.6
Decentralization & Participatory Development                   0.2             0.4             0.6
Project Implementation                                         0.9             2.8             3.6
Total Baseline Cost     22.0            21.9            43.9
Physical & Price Contingencies    0.7             0.6             1.3
Total Project Costs                                           22.7            22.5            45.2
Civil Works1-I
Goods                                                          -               7               7
Services                                                     I10              13              23
Training                                                       7                               8
Other                                                          5               1               6
Total Project Costs                                           23              22              45



75
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
A preliminary analysis of the retrenchments undertaken since 1997 under PSRP show that net benefits are
negative (see table 1). The assumptions on which the Government savings from retrenchment are
calculated include:
*  The immediate saving realized in personnel emoluments
* Future personnel emoluments savings, i.e., what is would have cost the Government had it continued
with the same level of employment. It is assumed that in the year following the retrenchment, the
Government could save up to 95% of the initial savings; 80% in the second year; 70% in the third;
and 60% in the fourth.
Negative net present benefits are to be expected over the 1997-99 retrenchments as they focused on
unskilled and semi-skilled personnel whose benefits under the current "abolishing of office" clause are far
much higher than their actual exit earnings (average of about 4 times for the three groups, i.e., 1997, 1998
and 1999).
A similar analysis was extended to the first phase of PSCAP (i.e., year 2000 - 2002). It is assumed that
the hiving-off of three institutions which should have been undertaken during calendar year 1999 will,
instead be done in the year 2000. The three institutions to be hived-off include:
*  Department for Technical Education and Vocational Training (DTEVT) which is being transformed
into the Technical Education, Vocational and Entrepreneurship Training Authority (TEVETA). In all,
890 staff at a total retrenchment cost of K14.6 billion are to be separated from the civil service
(average package of K16.5 million)
*  Department for National Parks and Wildlife Services which is being transformed into the Parks and
Wildlife Authority (PWA) with 2,000 employees separated at total cost of K14.64 billion (average
separation package K8.3 million)
*  National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA) with 170 employees separated at a total cost of
KI.54 billion (average package K9.1 million).
Table 2 sets out the schedule of costs and benefits under the optimistic scenario which is based on the
following assumptions:
*  As the number of daily classified employees (CDEs) is approaching its lower limit, future separations
will increasingly have to come from pensionable civil-servants with a relatively higher length of
service and average monthly earnings. Under the generous provisions of the "abolishing of office"
clause, the retrenchment package is likely to be higher than has been the case to-date. For this reason,
the 8t' decile of the DTEVT average package was taken as the likely future average separation
package (i.e. K13.2 million or US$5,260 at present exchange rate of K2,500/lUS$). We expect the
dollar equivalent to remain largely the same but the kwacha component might fluctuate due to
changing exchange and inflation rates.
*  Future salary savings were assumed as above
*  Subventions to hived-off institutions were assumed to be 50%
*  GDP is assumed to increase by 3.5% in the year 2000, 4% each in the years 2001-2002 (as per current
CAS estimates).



76
On the basis of the above assumptions, NPV is positive over the first three years of PSCAP. This result
has been possible under very strong assumptions, i.e., strong policy implementation capacity which is
characterized by efficient establishment and payroll controls, well motivated and qualified accounting
personnel, a transparent and accounting budget execution system, etc.
The prevailing situation suggests that these assumption might, over the short-term, prove difficult to
realize. In which case, the pessimistic scenario (table 3) with little savings (i.e., 50% of total assumed
under table 2) from personnel emoluments as retrechees are re-employed due to weak establishment and
payroll controls (as the case has been with CDEs); no savings are realized from hiving-off as the new
institutions revise their earnings upwards and entirely depend on Government funding; and the accounting
function still remain weak to effect any potential savings. On the basis of these assumptions, table 3
shows that NPV would be negative over the first phase of PSCAP.
These two scenarios clearly demonstrate the role systems improvements could play in realizing the
benefits from PSCAP. A broad-based and participatory approach to PSCAP implementation accompanied
by strengthening of the accounting functions, establishment and payroll control systems, etc. would prove
critical to the success of PSCAP. This, in a nutshell, is the challenge for PSCAP to begin to change the
mind-set which is necessary for cost-effectiveness and improving the quality service delivery of the
public service.
Table 1: Preliminary Cost-Benefit Analysis of Separations Undertaken since 1997 (Kwacha)
1997            1998             1999
Total CDEs sepated/ VSP (for 1999) -                  7,565           7,929            1,570
Average Separation Package                        4,800,000       4,700,000       10,500,000
Total Cost of Separation                     36,312,000,000   37,266,300,000    16,485,000,000
Average Annual Salary at separation               1,134,816        1,606,248       2,238,928
Total Annual Average Salary Saved first year  8,584,883,040   12,735,940,392    3,515,116,960
Salary Savings subsequent years (a)                            7,726,394,736   25,529,649,037
Total Annual Average Salary Savings           8,584,883,040   20,462,335,128   29,044,765,997
Net Benefits of Separation                  -27,727,116,960  -16,803,964,872    12,559,765,997
Discounted Net Benefits (discount rate 20%)  -27,506,967,750 _______________
Source: Cabinet Office (i.e., numbers separated, average annual earnings, and average separation
packages. Benefits are estimates based on assumption outlined in the text).



77
Table 2: Computation of NPV for First Phase of PSCAP ( 2000 - 2002): Optimistic Scenario
FY00         FY01           FY02
Projected Civil Service Employment                 106,000      103,000          100,000
Government wage bill (assuming 5% wage bill to GDP
ratio (UJS$ millions)                              166.505       179.825         196.475
Estimated Separation (retrenchment/hiving off)       6,000        3,000            3,000
Cost of Retrenchment (US$ millions)                 32.507       16.253           16.253
Retrenchment Benefits                            31.560       15.780           15.780
Retrenchment Management Costs (3% of benefits)    0.947        0.473            0.473
Cumulated Benefits of PSCAP (US$ million)           31.200       21.460           22.390
PE Saving first year                              9.370        5.240            5.890
PE Saving from previous separations              15.290        16.22            16.50
Savings from Reduction in Subventions             6.540            0                0
NET BENEFITS (US$ millions)                          -1.307       5.207            6.137
NPV (US$ millions)                                  $6.080
Exchange Rates (K/US$)                               2,500        2,700            3,000
Estimated Inflation Rate (%)                            20           15               1 5
Table 3: Computation of NPV for First Phase of PSCAP ( 2000 - 2002): Pessimistic Scenario
FY00         FY01           FY02
Projected Civil Service Employment                 106,000      103,000          100,000
Government wage bill (assuming 5% wage bill to GDP
ratio (US$ millions)                               166.505      179.825          196.475
Estimated Separation (retrenchment/hiving off)       6,000        3,000           3,000
Cost of Retrenchment (US$ millions)                32.507        16.253           16.253
Retrenchment Benefits                           31.560        15.780          15.780
Retrenchment Management Costs (3% of benefits)   0.947        0.473            0.473
Cumulated Benefits of PSCAP (US$ million)           17.010       13.350           14.140
PE Saving first year                             9.370        5.240            5.890
PE Saving from previous separations              7.640        8.110            8.250
Savings from Reduction in Subventions                0            0                0
NET BENEFITS (US$ millions)                        -15.497       -2.903           -2.113
NPV (US$ millions)                                ($16.15)_
Exchange Rates (KfIJS$)                             2,500         2,700            3,000
Estimated Inflation Rate (%)                           20           15               15
Sources for table 2 and 3: Based on estimates from table 1, CAS and other assumptions as stated in
main text.



78
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Years Ending
FY2001         FY2002         FY2003
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                           12              14             14
Recurrent Costs                              1              1              1
Total Project Costs                        13              15            17
Financing
IDA                                        61%             60%           66%
Government                                  2%              3%             0%
Co-financiers                              37%             37%           34%
Total                                     100%            100%          100%



79
Annex 5A: Financial Management Proposals
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
1.    Foreword
The Public Service Capacity Building Program (PSCAP) overali coordination will be the responsibility of
the Permanent Secretary of the Public Service Management Division, assisted by a small Program
Coordination Unit. Core staff of the Program Coordination Unit will include a Program Director, Finance
Manager, Procurement Manager, and Monitoring and Evaluation Manager.
PSCAP will use the services of the Common Services Accounting Unit (CSAU) at Cabinet Office. This
unit is headed by a Chief Accountant, and comprises of eight sections of which one will be for PSCAP. A
separate function solely for PSCAP has been established and will be headed by a Senior Accountant
(Finance Manager) supported by additional staff. In order to provide the desired financial controls and
ensure timely preparation of management reports, a computerized accounting software will be employed.
The installation of the software will be completed soon and the senior accountant (professional
qualification) has been selected.
The principal objective therefore of the PSCAP's financial management system will be to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency
and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. PSCAP's financial
management system will be expected to produce timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial
information to serve as early warning system for Program implementation, and to allow corrective
measures to be taken as quickly as possible.
For PSCAP to deliver on the above objectives, the financial management system must be
substantially upgraded and enhanced in accordance with the Financial Management Proposals
noted in Section 2 below.
2.    Financial Management Proposals
2.1    Finance Committee
A Finance Committee has been established in the management structure of PSCAP and its terms of
reference and composition agreed. The composition includes people from both within and outside the
government, including donors. Terms of reference include the following:
*  Review and evaluate the adequacy and soundness of the financial management systems and
operations in the Common Services Accounting Unit
* Evaluate the effectiveness of the internal controls including staffing, caliber of staff, equipment and
accounting processes
*  Identify short term financial management problems and recommend short term solutions
*  Identify long term financial management weaknesses and recommend long term solutions
* Review financial reporting on the project (budgets and actuals) and receive and review internal and
external audit reports
*  The Finance Committee will monitor and take action on risk areas in the administration of finance
and prescribe preventative measures to ensure the PSCAP implementation is not unfavorably
impacted



80
2.2   Finance Manager/Senior Accountant
A Finance Manager/Senior Accountant with requisite qualifications and relevant experience has been
appointed from within the service. He will initially direct and guide the preparatory arrangements for the
financial management operations of PSCAP.
To assist the Finance Manager, additional qualified and experienced accounting, administrative and
support staff will be required. The levels and numbers of such staff are still to be determined. Varying
levels of training will be required in financial management and government accounting; information
systems and computer applications; and procedures relating to utilization of funds.
2.3   Financial Procedures Manual
PSCAP management is currently documenting the internal processing procedures and controls in a
Financial Procedures Manual, and an initial draft has already been submitted to the Bank for review. The
Internal Audit Unit of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development will periodically review the
activities of the program.
2.4   Information technology
The current accounting system is mainly manual and follows the government coding system. Under the
Program, there is a component on financial management whose basic thrust is to build capacity for
strategic management of public financial resources. One of the final outputs of the component will be full
automation and integration of the budgeting, treasury management and accounting systems in the
framework of an Integrated Financial Management Information system (IFMIS). Pending the finalization
of the IFMIS, a computerized accounting system will be used to facilitate timely and reliable reporting.
A firm, currently involved in supporting computerized accounting in IDA funded projects in Zambia, has
been contracted to install the software for the accounting system for PSCAP. The contract covers the cost
of the software license, purchases of relevant modules, modifications, installation and training. This
process will be completed by Board presentation.
2.5    Planning and Budgeting
Government counterpart funding will be approved in line with the government budgetary process. Budget
preparation and approval should be one of the responsibilities of a Finance Committee in consultation
with other cooperating partners.
2.6    Government Accounting
PSCAP is a government program and must therefore meet the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Development requirements for cash accounting. This requirement is not expected to change in the
immediate future until the IFMIS is finalized. This means therefore that IDA and related counterpart
funds will be accounted for on a cash basis.
2.7   Flow of funds
PSCAP is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements as provided in the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998). This means therefore that in the
short term, the existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook
will prevail. The appointment of a Finance Manager coupled with the upgrading of the PSCAP financial



81
management system should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements. An action plan for
PMR based disbursements by September 30, 2001 was agreed upon at negotiations.
2.8   IDA Withdrawal/Disbursement Arrangements
The proposed IDA Credit of US$28 million would be disbursed over four years with an expected Project
Completion Date of June 30, 2003 and a closing date of December 31, 2003. The proposed allocation of
Credit proceeds is shown in Annex 6, Table C.
Statement of Expenditures
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for: (a)
expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 each or less for goods, equipment
vehicles works and consultants' services provided by firms; and (b) US$50,000 or less for individual
consultants; and (c) all training and incremental operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of
certified statements of expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against
SOEs will be retained by PSCAP and will be made available for review when requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the
Development credit agreement and the procedures defined in the disbursement letter.
Special Account
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the Government will
open a Special Account in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures to be
managed and administered by PSCAP. The Authorized Allocation of the Special Account would be
US$2 million, covering an estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA- Initially, the
authorized allocation will be limited to an amount of US$2 million until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
shall be equal to SDR 8 million. PSCAP will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent possible, all of IDA's
share of expenditures should be paid through the special account.
2.9    Fixed Assets
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked for capital expenditures.
With regard to construction/capital work in progress, a Contracts Ledger will be prepared. Controls will
be established over the awarding of contracts to ensure that payments are made only for certified work.
Contracts Status Reports will be prepared as part of the Procurement Management reports.
2.10   Financial Reporting
In compliance with Govemment reporting requirements, the Finance Manager will be responsible for
preparing the Monthly Return, and any other reports that may be required to the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Development for. In addition to the above retum, financial statements for the Program will
require initially on annual bases. These will include:
* A Summary of Funds Received, showing separately World Bank, funds from other donors if any,
and Government counterpart funds;
* A Summary of Expenditures shown under the main headings and by main category of expenditure,
both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date;



82
*  A Balance Sheet showing accumulated funds of the Program, bank balances, other assets of the
Program, and liabilities, if any;
*  Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
when preparing the accounts, and any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of "a true andfair view".
Annexed to the Financial Statements should be:
*  Statement of Expenditure (SOE) Schedule  listing individual withdrawal applications by specific
reference number, dates and amounts. These are applications processed without accompanying
supporting documentation;
*  A Special Account Statement showing:
(i)    opening balance at the beginning of the year;
(ii)   deposits and replenishments from the World Bank;
(iii)  payments substantiated by withdrawal applications;
(iv)   interest that may be earned and which belongs to the borrower; and
(v)   the remaining balance at the year end.
2.11   External Audit
Bank policy requires the borrower and the implementing agencies to have the required financial
statements for each year audited by relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors. The
auditors would normally be required to express an opinion on the following:
*  A primary opinion on the Program Financial Statements as whole;
*  A separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and use of expenditures under Statements of
Expenditures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for disbursements;
*  In conjunction with the above, the auditors would also be required to audit the activities on the
Special Account associated with the Program.
In addition to the audit reports, the auditors would also prepare a Management Letter giving comments
and observations, and recommendations for improvement on accounting records, controls and compliance
with the relevant Credit Agreement.
The terms of reference have been drafted and the Office of the Auditor-General will be responsible for the
annual audit.
2.12   Action Plan
The financial management requirements for progressing this project further can be split into two : the
immediate minimum requirements to comply with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02, and those relating to
eligibility for PMR-based disbursements.
The actions needed to meet the minimum requirements to comply with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 on
financial management were agreed upon at negotiations and incorporated into the minutes, dated January
12, 2000. A move to PMR-based disbursements was also agreed at negotiations and incorporated in the
same minutes.



83
Action                                 Target Dates
Integrated Accounting System
*  Confirmation on software modification                           Jun.30, 2000
-  Purchase of relevant Modules                                    Dec. 31, 2000
*  Complete modification of system                                 Jan. 31, 2000
*  Final installation completed                                    Jan. 31, 2001
*  Data testing completed                                          Mar. 31, 2001
2.   Staffing, Training and User Manual
*  Training on new system completed                                Mar. 31, 2001
*  User Manual finalized                                           Jun.30, 2001
3.  Financial and Management Reporting: (Procedures for reporting to be
included in Accounting Manual) including:
*  Formats, including all financial, procurement and physical      Dec.31, 2000
Monitoring indicators, for Project Management Reports (PMRs)
*  Agreement on the first year amounts and initial 6 month Cash flow  Mar. 31, 2001
*  Agreement on the schedule of reporting to PSRP Steering Committee    Mar. 31, 2001
(Government) and World Bank
4.  Financial/Procurement Procedures Manual
* 1 draft of procedures manual completed                           Nov. 30, 1999
* World Bank to provide comments on latest draft                   Jan. 31, 2000
a Manual revised taking into account WB comments                   Feb. 29, 2000
* Procedures Manual finalized                                      Feb. 29, 2000
5.  Financial Management System and Procurement/Contract Management PMRs
* Integrated system produce first set of PMRs                      Feb. 28, 2001
* Draft PMRs sent to WB for review/comment                         Feb. 28, 2001
* WB feedback/finalize PMRs                                        Mar. 31, 2001
* PMR-based disbursements                                          Sep. 30, 2001
6.  External Audit Arrangements
* TORs drafted and submitted for WB review                         Jan. 31, 2000
* Agreement on the scope and TOR for audit                         Jan. 31, 2000



84
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Procurement
General:' Procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out following Annual
Procurement Plans agreed with the Bank as part of the Annual Work Plan. Procurement of goods and
works will be in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999)
and procurement of Consulting Services will be in accordance with the Bank's 'Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999). The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used
for all International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (RFP)
will be used for Consulting Services. The allocation for project costs and IDA financing by
procurement method is indicated in Table A of this Annex.
Procurement Management and Implementation: The management of the procurement of goods
and equipment, civil works, and consultant services under the project will be the responsibility of the
Program Implementation and Coordination Team (PIC). In order to ensure efficiency and economy,
the Cabinet will establish a Procurement Unit headed by a Procurement Specialist to be assisted by
two Procurement Officers seconded from the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB). However,
each of the Beneficiary Institutions will also undertake procurement of items within an agreed limited
threshold and aggregate. There will be two units responsible for undertaking procurement activities:
Beneficiary Institutions : The beneficiary institutions will be responsible for the procurement of
goods, works and services for their institutions for small values within their procurement thresholds
per contract and an aggregate per month as approved by the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB),
and agreed with the Bank except for the common needs which would be consolidated into
procurement packages. Procurements valued above the approved thresholds will be undertaken
through ZNTB. Each beneficiary institution will be responsible for identifying procurement needs
under the respective components.
PIC: The PIC's Procurement Unit will be responsible for the procurement of all common
requirements for the various components, including all Consultancy assignments. Procurements
valued above its authorized threshold will be done through Zambia National Tender Board. The PIC
will monitor all procurement related information for project implementation, and provide reports on
activities relating to each beneficiary institution. These reports will provide information on the
procurement methods, nature and amounts of contracts procured through each method, number and
amounts of contracts subject to prior review by the Bank. The Project Co-ordination and Support
Unit will give the status of all procurements in quarterly reports submitted to the Bank. The PIC will
be responsible for all communication with the Bank on all procurement related matters.
As the procurement section of the Financial and Procurement Procedures Manual (i.e. the Operations
Manual) was not finalized during negotiations, the Borrower was asked to revise the manual outlining
in detail the procurement process and management for the implementation of the program. The
Borrower was advised to refer to the approved procedures manual which was prepared by the
Ministry of Education for the Basic Education Sub-Sector Project (BESSIP)-this could serve as an
example. The approved manual should be in place prior to Credit effectiveness. A procurement plan
was finalized during negotiations. However, an updated plan should be submitted prior to
effectiveness.



85
Procurement Planning: The PIC will arrange to publish a General Procurement Notice (GPN) for
the project in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in the local newspapers. The
draft GPN will be submitted to the Bank for prior review and approval. The GPN will be updated
every year and submitted to IDA. It will show all outstanding ICB for goods and works contracts, as
well as consulting assignments. A draft Procurement Plan has been prepared by the Borrower and was
agreed with the Bank at negotiations. The Procurement Plan includes relevant information on all
goods, works, consulting services, and training under the Project as well as timing of each milestone
in the procurement process. The management and actual status of all procurement will be reflected in
the quarterly reports which will be submitted to IDA. Three months prior to the start of each
subsequent fiscal year, the Borrower will submit an updated annual procurement plan in respect of the
following year as part of the Annual Work Plan.
Goods and Equipment: Various types of office equipment, furniture, computers, communication
equipment and vehicles estimated at US$6.5 million equivalent, will be procured primarily through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following Bank Guidelines and using Bank Standard
Bidding Documents with appropriate modifications. Small quantities of goods such as office
equipment and supplies, consumable materials and spare parts, which are normally available off-the
shelf at competitive prices, and for which individual contracts do not exceed US$30,000 equivalent,
would be procured through IAPSO (UNDP) and/or prudent national/international shopping
procedures, based on price quotations obtained from at least three eligible suppliers, provided that the
aggregate amount does not exceed US$50,000 equivalent. Supply contracts would where necessary
include installation, maintenance and service back-up (technical assistance) for at least one year after
delivery. All contracts above US$100,000 will be subject to IDA prior review in accordance with
Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.
Civil Works: Civil works will consist of rehabilitation of Beneficiary Institutions estimated to cost
US$1.1 million equivalent in aggregate. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Minor Works costing less than the
equivalent of US$30,000 per contract will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts on the
basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where
applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the
required work, provided they demonstrate they have the experience and the resources to complete the
contract successfully.
Consultancy Services and Studies: Engagement of consultants for the various studies, technical
assistance and consultancy services for the various components of the program shall be selected
through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method unless otherwise specified. Procurement
of consultant services will be in accordance with the Bank guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants published in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999. For consultancy services contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 or less up to an aggregate of
US$500,000 selection will be through competition among qualified short listed consultants based on
the Least Cost Selection method which would be applicable toconsultancy assignments for auditors,
civil works supervision etc. In addition selection of consultants for contracts less than US$50,000
could also be undertaken by comparison of consultants qualifications for those who have expressed
interest.
All consultancy assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more will be
advertised in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and in at least one national
newspaper. In addition, the contracts may be advertised in an international newspaper or magazine



86
seeking "expressions of interest". In the case of assignments estimated at US$ 100,000 or less, the
assignment may be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made up entirely of national
consultants, provided that at least three qualified national firms are available in the country and
foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration.
The Standard "Request for Proposals (RFP)"and Form of Contract as developed by the Bank will be
used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignment, i.e.,
those not exceeding three months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. Firms would be
invited to submit expressions of interest for each assignment.
IDA Review: All goods contracts estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent or more will be subject to
IDA review of bidding documents including technical specifications prior to inviting bids, and IDA
review of bid evaluation prior to contract award. All individual contracts for civil works above
US$250,000 will be subject to IDA prior review. Prior IDA review will apply for: (i) Terms of
Reference (TOR) for all consultancy services; (ii) contracts to be awarded on the basis of sole source
recruitment; (iii) draft contracts of the first three contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000;
(iv) selection procedures, short-lists and Request for Proposals (RFP), qualifying technical proposals,
final evaluation reports, and draft contracts when the estimated cost of the contract exceeds
US$50,000 for individual consultants and US$100,000 for firm; (v) assignments of a critical nature
(as reasonably determined by the Bank) for individuals and firms estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 and US$100,000 respectively; and (vi) contract amendments raising the values over
US$50,000 and US$100,000 for individuals and firms respectively. Contracts not subject to prior
review will be post reviewed in accordance with Appendix I of both Guidelines.
Training: Training programs are geared toward improving management and skills of public servants.
These training programs would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval, as would be
workshops and focus group discussions. Training abroad and in-country, workshops and study tours,
in total estimated at US$6.2 million equivalent for the entire duration of the project, will be carried
out on the basis of IDA-approved annual training programs that would identify the nature of
training/study tours/workshops, institutions where training/study tours/workshops would be conducted
(selection of institutions and justification thereof), cost estimates, contents of the course. These will
be reviewed by IDA on a quarterly basis.



87
Annex 6: Table A - Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
1. Works                                          1.1                           1.1
(I. 1)                        (I. 1)
2. Goods                            7.4                         0.1             7.9
(6.2)          -            (0.1)          (6.5)
3. Services                          -             -            22.9           22.9
-            -            (9.9)          (9.9)
4. Training                          -             -            7.9             7.9
-            -            (6.2)          (6.2)
5. Incremental Operating Cost        -             -            4.9             4.9
-            -            (3.6)          (3.6)
6. Unallocated                       -             -             1.0            1.0
(1.0)          (1.0)
Total                            7.4           1.1           36.7           45.2
(6.4)        (1.1)         (20.8)          (28.3)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).



88
Annex 6: Table Al - Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
CQ           Other        QCBS.
A. Firms                                                     21.3           21.3
-  -       (8.4)           (8.4)
B. Individuals                    1.0           0.6                          1.6
(0.9)         (0.6)          -             (1.6)
Total       1.0            0.6          21.3           22.9
(0.9)         (0.6)        (8.4)           (9.9)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



89
Annex 6: Table B -Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
E :dftr             cofta        e           ProcureiAPt        n      net.Su e,
w .    ........   . .. .. .. . .  .   ..................... t.     
US$thousands                                 US$millions
1. Works         US$30,000 to US$500,000   NCB                         1.1
2. Goods         Above US$100,000           ICB                        7.4
US$30,000 to US$100,000   NCB                    Post Review
Less than US$30,000       NS/IS/IAPSO            Post Review
3. Services      Above US$100,000           QCBS                       6.4
US$50,000 to US$100,000   QCBS/CQ/Other              0.1
US$50,000                 QCBS/CQ/Other          Post Review
4. Training                                 Other                     6.2 *
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   14.9
* Review of training proposals will be carried out on the basis of IDA-approved annual
training programs that would identify the nature of training/study tours/workshops,
institutions where training/study tours/workshops would be conducted (selection of
institutions and justification thereof), cost estimates, contents of the course. These will
be reviewed by IDA on a quarterly basis.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High         x
Average
Low L
Major weaknesses:
* Management of Procurement Process: Currently there is no capacity. Minor
procurements for the Cabinet Office are carried out by the accounts department.
* Contract Management: Currently there is no capacity.
*  Organization of unit and functions: Roles, functions and line of authority not clearly
defined (Roles and responsibility to be defined in the Procurement Manual).
* Internal Manuals and Instructions: There are no internal procurement manuals and
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project.  Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



90
instructions (Procurement Manual must be prepared).
Staffing: There is no Procurement Unit and no Procurement Specialist (before Credit
effectiveness a procurement specialist should be employed, and two procurement
officers to be seconded from ZNTB).
Actions:
Prior to Credit effectiveness, the Cabinet office should establish a Procurement Unit (part of
the Program Implementation and Coordination Team - PIC) headed by a Procurement
Specialist to be assisted by two Procurement Officers seconded from the Zambia National
Tender Board (ZNTB).
To be LACI compliant, the Borrower should develop a procurement management
information system in conjunction with the financial management systems to enable
submission of the required reports which will include six monthly cash forecasts. Cash
forecasts are based on contract commitment details (including contracts to be committed
based on the procurement plan) and the corresponding payment schedule based on delivery
periods and payment terms.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4
month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Selection of consultants and training activities will be very closely monitored by
IDA as currently there is no adequate capacity to handle the large volume of
consultants selection and activities under training



91
Annex 6: Table C - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
/4, ~~0
1. Consultant Services & Training       15                100%
2. Equipment & Vehicles                  6                100% of Foreign & 80% of Local
3. Civil Works                           1                100% of Foreign & 80% of Local
4. Incremental Operating Cost            4                90%
5. Refunding of PPF                      I
6. Unallocated                            1 1
Total Project Costs               28



92
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Timea taken to prepare the project (months)   18 months            24 months
First Bank mission (identification)            6/22/1998            6/22/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    6/1999               8/22/1999
Negotiations                                   8/1999               1/10/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 12/1999               6/16/2000
Prepared by: GRZ PSCAP Technical Committee
Preparation assistance: PPF US$785,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Harry Garnett                      Public Sector Management
Denyse Morin                       Public Sector Management
Brian Falconer                     Financial Management
Aberra Zerabruk                    Legal
V.S. Krishnakumar                  Procurement
Reynaldo Castro                    Operations
Bwalya Mumba                       Procurement
Brighton Musungwa                  Financial Management
Mushiba Nyamazana                  Economist
David Steedman                     Public Sector Management - Peer Review
Michael Stevens                    Public Sector Management - Peer Review
Colin Lyle                         Finance and Accounting - Peer Review
Guenter Heidenhof                  Public Sector Management - Peer Review
Manuel Penalver-Quesada
Charles Humphreys
Linn Hammergren                    Quality Enhancement Team
Charles Chandler
Francois Binder
Brian Falconer
Nelia Polines Dinkin               Team Assistance
Madeleine Chung-Kong               Team Assistance



93
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Detailed PIP
B; Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Assessment
Financial Assessment
C. Other
Government of the Republic of Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Project, Strategy
and Action Plan 2000-2012
PPF Request Documentation (Feb. 1, 1999)
Supplemental PPF Documentation (January, 2000)
Draft Operational Manual
*Including electronic files.



94
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Status of Bank Group Operations in Zambia
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Original Amount in US$ Millions
Fiscal
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IERD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed
Number of Closed Projects: 57
Active Projects
ZM-PE-3249       1999   GOVT OF ZAMBIA                    BASIC ED SEC INV PRG                      0.00       40.00        0.00              3B.14
ZM-PE-35641      1999   GOVT. OF ZAMBIA                   PSREP (ESAC III)                          0.00      172.80        0.00             101.44
ZM-PE-3236       1998   GOVT                              NATIONAL ROAD                             0.00       70.00        0.00              64.24
ZM-PE-35076      1998                                     POWER REHAB                               0.00       75.00         0.00             71.75
ZM-PE-3253       1997   GOVT OF ZAMBIA                    ENVIRONMENT                               0.00       12.80         0.00             11.40
ZM-PE-44324      1997   REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA                ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                      0.00       45.00         0.00             40.20
ZM-PE-40642      1996                                     ERIPTA                                    0.00       23.00         0.00              6.81
ZM-PE-3210       1995   GOVT                              SOCIAL RECOVERY II                        0.00       30.00         0.00              2.74
ZM-PE-3218       1995   GOVT.                             AGRICULTURE SECTOR I                      0.00       60.00        0.00              29.01
ZM-PE-3239       1995   GOVT                              HEALTH SECTOR                             0.00       56.00        0.00              30.38
ZM-PE-3241       1995   GOZ                               URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                      0.00       33.00        0.00              10.44
ZM-PE-3252       1994   GOVT                              PETROLEUM REHAB                           0.00       30.00        0.00              23.93
ZM-PE-3258       1994   GOVT OF ZAMBIA                    FINANCIAL & LEGAL MA                      0.00       18.00        0.00               4.31
ZM-PE-3251       1992   GOVERNMENT                        PIRC TECHNICAL ASSIS                      0.00       10.00         0.00                .68
Total                                                                                               0.00      675.60        0.00             435.47
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  214.71            2,038.59            2,253.30
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               572.89              572.89
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  675.60            1,426.71            2,102.31
Amount sold                                        0.00                28.58               28.58
Of which repaid               :                 0.00               28.58                28.58
Total Undisbursed                :               435.47                12.41              447.88
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



95
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Zambia at a glance                              9t21t99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          SahaaL Low-r
Zamxba     Afric   Income        Development diamond
199S
Population, midwyear (mn/tions)                        97        628 3.515                     Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Attas melrod, US$)                     330       480       520
GNP (Atlas meO, USS bt/ois)                            32        304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                         26        2.6        1.7
Laborforce (%                                          3.0       2.6        1 9     GNP                              Gross
Mosttresthaltmtitet(latestyear avaftab. 199298                                      capier                       enmpilment
Poverty (% otpopulation befow nationat poverfr line)   68
Urban population (%of total population)                44         33        31
Lte expectancy at birth (years)                         43        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 ive birthrs)               113        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of childrien uncter 5)            24         .          .              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  53        47        74
Illiteracy (6 ofpopulation age 15+)                     25        42        32
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschoolae"population)        89        77       108                  Zambia
Mal                                                   91        84       113                  Lov-income group
Female                                                86        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1187       1997      1998                                _.
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS biltion)                             2 5      23        3.9        3.4
Gross domestc investmenUGDP                  24.7     1Z7        14.5      14.3
Exports of goods and services/GOP            39.4     39.5      31.7      29.4                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   22.1     16.5        9.3       53
Gross national savings/GDP                   13.5      0.4        3.3      -0.9
Current account balance/GOP                  -86     -15.3      -11,1     -15.2
Interest paynments/GDP                        3.0      3.2        1.5      2.7      DomInvestment
Total debtGDP                                93.1    292.5      171.9    204.8      Savings
Total debt service/exports                   26.6     185        21.6     23.1
Present value of debt/GDP                       .. -     .      128.2
Present value of debtVexports                  ..       ..    385.8
Indebtedness
197747  196898-      1997      1998   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  0.5      0.7      3.4       -2 0       3.9                   Zambia
GNP per capita                      -4.1     -1.2      1.4      -4.0        1.7                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       -3 9      2,1     14.6       -7.5       64
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investmrent [%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  18.1     12.0       18.6      19.4     45
Industry                                     41.6     45.5      34.6      29.6      3
Manufacturng                               19.6     28.5       13.5      12.8 1 s
Services                                     40.2     42.4      46.7       50.9      o
Private consumption                          51.5     631        79.4      83.8    -15     93    4   98   96   97   98
General govemmentconsumption                 26.4     204        113       10.8                    G       -"o-GDP
Imports of goods and services                41.9     35.7       37.0      38.4
(average annual growth)                   1977487  1988-98      1997      1998      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   1.4     -5.2       -5.1      -6.1    60
Industry                                     -0.4     -3.5       8.7       -4.3    40
Manufacturng                                 1.8    -11.4       7.4      -1.0     20
Services                                      0.4      8.1        3.2       4.4
Private consumption                           1.8      1.2        2.6      -1.4                 54 95 96   97
General govemment consumption                -2.1    -11.1        0.7      -9.6    20
Gross domestic investment                    -9.6     10.3       25.4      -3.5     o
Imports of goods and services                -5.1     -0.7       19.2      -8.2                  E-xpOrts    rImporns
Gross national product                       -1 1      1.6        3.9      -1.8
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
~ot+o.@wn _ .>*rZv~ iv-._sms. _Ks.      .e s   gi_ A2



96
Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy from the Government of Zambia
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Teloe: LUSAJZA 2542631/250481                                  In rteply pLIQf quote:
TexjeZA 42221
7Wqrw F.!NANCE RIDGEWAY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
MF1731114 SEC.                                               P.O. BOX 50062
RIDGEWAY, 15101
CHI MlANGA ROAD
LUSAKA
January 25, 2000
Mr. Callisto Madavo
Vice President, Africa Region
World Bank
Washington, DC
U.S.A.
PUBLC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT:
LErrER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.   In 1993, the Govemment launched the Public Service Reform
Programme (PSRP) with the goal of strengthening the
effectiveness, efficiency and quality of services delivered by the
public service. This was to be achieved by amongst other things,
restructuring Ministries and Provinces, introducing Performance
Management and Human Resource Management Systems and
decentralizing certain functions to district level. A core objective of
the Programme was also to reduce spending on Personal
Emoluments (PEs) by reducing public servant numbers, in order to
improve the ratio of Recurrent Departmental Charges to PEs. On
September 1, 1997, the Government adopted a revised PSRP that
targeted a reduction in public sector workers from 136,984 as at
June, 1997 to 80,000 by the end of 1999. The revised PSRP also
set pay targets for the decompression of salaries intended to
improve remuneration for the higherlskilled grades. Under this
programme 16,000 CEs (approximately 47%) were separated in



97
1997 and 1998. A total of 10,231 civil servants were separated in
1999, through voluntary separations, Ministerial restructuring and
hiving-off of Government institutons. However, an analysis of
employees of the public service conducted in 1998 suggested that
this approach, focusing only on numbers posed a risk of
undermining the capacity of the public service in providing services
including basic social services, law and order. In this regard a
study to determine the optimal size of the civil service has been
commissioned.
2.   The purpose of this letter is to inform you about policy reforms in
these areas of reform and adjustment. We are seeking US$2.8
Million IDA assistance to support these reforms through the Public
Service Capacity Building Project (PSCAP).
lI    RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ON PSRP
Ministerial restructuring
3.   Substantial progress has been made in the implementation of the
PSRP particularly with regard to redefining the functions, refocusing
the roles and reviewing the establishments and  structures of
Ministries and other Govemment aaendes. The non-core functions
and services have been recommended for hiving-off from
Ministries, and studies have been carried out in some of the
institutions performing non-core functions with a view to
determining their modus operandi.  By the end of 1999 all
Ministries except for three, have had new structures developed and
approved. The restructuring of Ministries has through this effort
resulted in net abolition of about 15,000 redundant posts.
Hiving-off of Government Institutions
4.   The hiving-off of institutions commenced during the fourth quarter
of 1999. The Government retired all 2,058 employees from the
Department of National Parks and Wildlife Services 181, employees
from the National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA), 1,478
employees from the Department of Technical Education and
Vocational Training, and 37 employees from the Registrar of
Companies Patents and Business Names.  In addition 575
employees who were identified for separation through Ministerial
restructuring, were also separated.   The effective date for



98
retirement of all these employees (when they were removed from
the payroll) was 31s December, 1999.
In-Depth Study on the Level and Direction of the Public Service
5.   In 1998, the Govemment decided to do away with the radical
(sharp) reduction approach or numbers game in right sizing the
Public Service establishment over the medium term given the
imperative to expand the provision of basic social services, and
improve on the maintenance of law and order.
* To assess the scope, identify strategies and set targets for right
sizing the public service establishment over the medium term
given the imperative to expand the provision of basic socal
services, and improve on the maintenance of law and order.
* To determine sustainable options for enhancing and
decompressing public service salaries given the wage bill ceiling
and the prospective size and structure of the public service of
the medium term; and
 To make recommendations to the Government on the medium
term targets for right sizing and pay reform.
A consulting firm KPMG is carrying out the study which will be
completed in February, 2000.
Payroll Management and Establishment Control
6.   In 1998, the Govemment prepared a Development plan for creating
an effective Payroll and Establishment Control System. During
1999, the Government with the support of the Department for
International Development (DFID) prepared a comprehensive
Payroll Management and Establishment Control Project (PMECP).
The project was appraised by a DFID mission in October, 1999 and
implementation is expected to start in the year 2000. DFID is
committed to providing support to the implementation of the
project. For 1999, measures have been put in place to strongly
link the retrenchment exercise and introduction of new employees
on the payroll. Under the new arrangement all retrenchments and
introduction of new employees are processed through the Public
Service Management Division (PSMD) which in turn seeks approval



99
from the PSRP Steering Committee. The PSRP Steering Committee
Is the only authority mandated to approve introduction of new
employees on the payroll.
Actuarial Study
7.   The Govemment on 14t' May, 1999 hired an actuary to carry out a
study on the Public Service Pension Scheme. The study was
completed in October, 1999 and the report was submitted to the
President at the end of October, 1999. The Govemment is
considering the report and will soon take a position on the
recommendations.
III THE PUBLIC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT (PSCAP)
8.   The Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCAP) will support the
Govemment's Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP), by
helping- Government to build the Public Service's capacity to
manage and implement reforms in the delivery of services,
allocation of resources and formulation of policy. The project will
specfically develop the capacity of the managers of the public
service to analyze, design and execute the required transformations
of institutions and processes and, together with institutions in the
public and private sector, to train staff in the skills, attitudes and
behavior required to implement and sustain the reforms.
9.   The PSCAP is envisaged as a long-term (13 years) activity and will
be implemented in three phases. The first phase (3 years) will
focus on improving systems through a number of structural and
institutional changes aimed at supporting service delivery
improvements. The second phase (5 years) will concentrate on
rolling over the result oriented management developed in phase
one.  The final phase (5 years) will focus on continuous
improvement and insitutionalising results oriented management.
IV COMPONENTS OFTHE PROJECT
The PSCAP has five components which are briefly discussed below:
Right-Sizing and Pay Reform



100
10.  The objctive of this component is to continue and complete the
restructuring and retrenchments necessary to rationalise the
functions of the Government and generate the financial resources
needed to begin to create the pay incentives needed to motivate
staff. Phase one of this component will build upon progress made
under the UNDP-supported restructuring of Ministries and the
retrenchment carried out over the past years. The component will
assist the Government in rationalising the structure and size of the
Public Service. The establishment was reduced from 136,000 in
June 1997 to about 112,500 at the end of 1999. The reduction
beyond December, will depend on the outcome of an in-depth
study to establish the level and direcion of the Public Service.
Policy and Public Service Management
11.  One of the PSRP objectives is to improve Government capacity to
analyse and implement national policies, and perform its
appropriate functions. This entails divorcing Government from
direct provision of services.  As direct service provision is
decentralized, policy formulation and monitoring will be the focal
business of Government. The Core Civil Service, which is expected
to be reduced significantly, will be prepared for its new role under
this component. Under the Policy Management sub-component,
PSCAP will continue the capacity buiiding and process reform
started in 19994 with USAID. This will improve the capacity to
formulate, analyse and co-ordinate policies.  Under the Public
Service Management (PSM) sub component, the main activities to
be carried out will be continuing the work begun with Irish Aid
support (1997 - 1999) and will assist Government Ministries and
other Institutions to establish a results-oriented, professional and
well-motivated Public Service.
Financial Management, Accountability and Transparency
12.  This component targets to build capacities in Ministry of Finance
and Economic Development (MOFED), Office of the Auditor General
(OAG), Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB), and the National
Assembly's Public Accounts Committee which are the key
institutions in overseeing financial management, accountability and
transparency. MOFED's sub-component sets out to implement
many of the recommendations made in the Bank's recent Financial
Management Sector Study. It builds upon progress made under a



101
number of donor supported programmes, including the European
Union (EU). PSCAP will put in place mechanisms that would ensure
that financial resources are effectively and economically acquired,
allocated and utilized, including the introduction of the Medium
Term Financial Framework to the budgetary process. The OAG and
ZNTB sub-component will build up on the Bank-supported Financial
Legal and Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP) which ended in
1999. PSCAP also seeks to augment the capacity of the National
Assembly's Public Accounts Committee to effecively deal with
issues of financial management, accountability and transparency
through training and giving the Committee access to specialist
assistance.
Judidal and Legal
13.  The planned outputs and activies under this component are
predominantly a continuation of those initiated under the Financial
and Legal Management Upgrading Project (FILMUP, IDA Cr.
2535ZA). These include: training staff in Ministry of Legal Affairs
(MOLA) and the Judiciary, and developing where necessary,
procedures/systems in MOLA and Une Ministries as well as
identifying and reviewing recurrent laws and legislation impacting
on accountability and transparency. Govemment has adopted a
modest programme of civil works in Phase one of the project.
These civil works are considered to be priority investments for the
Judiciary, and are confined to rehabilitation of three courts in the
first phase of PSCAP. Other activities under the component include
technical assistance/consultancies and training in specialist skills.
Decentralization
14.  PSCAP will support activities to further the discussion and decisions
regarding decentralization until such time as other antidpated
initiatives, more focused on Local Govemment per se, can come on
line. PSCAP's will contribute to the definition of the policy and
development of a strategy for its implementation. PSCAP will also
establish a fund for extemal organizations, such as a university-
based research institute, to carry out surveys of the quality of
service delivery to various segments of the population, including
the poor, disadvantaged, residents of rural areas and small
businesses. These surveys will give voice to those not normally
involved in the reform of Public Services.



102
businesses. These surveys will give voice to those not normally
involved in the reform of Public Services.
V.   PR0WECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
15.  In fulfilling its commitment to PSCAP, the Govemment has put in
place a structure, the Project Implementation and Co-ordination
Unit (PICU) of PSCAP which firmly mainstreamed in Cabinet Office
under the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet (Finance and Economic
Development). The PICU will be charged with the task of co-
ordinating PSCAP implementation and monitoring. The Unit will be
supported by a group of stakeholders with wide public sector
interests who are in the PSRP Steering Committee. The Committee
will ensure that the diverse interests of the participating Ministries
and institutions are harmonized.
VI.  CONCLUDING REMARKS
16.  The PSCAP Credit will help meet Zambia's external financing needs
for the year's 2000 to 2002, support macro-economic reform
further and reduce poverty. IDA's assistance is also essential to
help us mobilize contributions from other donors.
Yours Sincerely,
Dr. Katele Kalumba, MP
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
/fjkh



103
Annex 12: Performance Improvement Fund
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
Introduction
1.    Over the past three years, with financial support from Irish Aid, Government has initiated the
introduction of a Performance Management System (PMS) in all Government ministries. This work
represented a continuation of efforts previously supported by the UNDP to introduce strategic planning in
the public service. The Management Development Division (MDD) in the Cabinet Office has technically
led and coordinated the PMS implementation activities.
2.    In every ministry, the key outputs from the PMS implementation have been:
*   Strategic plans; and
*   Work plans.
3.    However, ministries have made little headway in the implementation of the strategic plans and
the annual work plans ostensibly because they did not receive funds needed for capacity building
investments, especially for management training, filling gaps in technical and professional skills and
retooling. Therefore, for all practical purposes, the implementation of PMS has stalled.
4.    It is proposed that PSCAP will provide the resources needed to progress the implementation of
the PMS. However, in its first phase PSCAP will support the implementation of PMS only on a pilot
basis. Furthermore, in order to: (i) ensure impact of such support on service delivery in the target
institutions, and (ii) minimize the risks of a supply-driven initiative, it is proposed that the project support
for PMS will be channeled through a results-oriented funding mechanism, i.e. a Performnance
Improvement Fund.
Purpose and Uses of the Fund
5.    The Performance Improvement Fund (PIF) will be a flexible instrument used to finance ministry-
led programs to improve priority services. The Fund will provide resources to meet the direct costs of
implementing the strategically identified performance improvement plans and key capacity building
interventions. Such plans and interventions will have a direct bearing on specific target improvements in
services delivered by that ministry. During the pilot phase, improvements in service delivery will
emphasize "quick-wins"'.
6.    To access the PIF, a ministry will have initially to revisit its existing strategic plan and ensure that
the plan explicitly reflects specific "quick wins". Resources for capacity building will be accessed as soon
as a ministry has developed a credible strategic plan and has diagnosed its requirements to deliver the
strategy. Thereafter, funds for technical assistance and training in strategic planning, operational planning
and performance appraisal will be drawn down according to agreed targets and standards for service
improvements.
Performance Improvement Cycle
7.    The Fund will be used to operationalize a performnance improvement cycle (PIC) in a ministry. In
summary, the key features of the PIC will include:
"quick-win" is defined as a significant improvement in service delivery which has minimal demands for
budgetary resources and technological changes.



104
* Three inter-linked planning processes: at the strategic, operational and individual level.
* During the strategic planning review process each ministry will re-examine its organization's mission
and vision (based on their respective external and internal environment) together with policies,
strategies and associated objectives for achieving them.
*  Ministries will be required to ascertain critical factors to measure performance to achieve their
objectives. They will also identify capacity and resources (professional skills, leadership, HRD,
management structures, management and operating processes) needed to implement the strategic
plan.
* Following the strategic planning phase, an operational planning process (at departmental and
divisional levels) will begin. This process should run in tandem with the Government's existing
budget process. At this stage, Ministries will be expected to identify priorities for the next financial
year taking into account budget constraints, ceilings and external sources available. Therefore,
outputs will be related to expenditures. Deliverables anticipated from this process include objectives
and targets, outputs, performance indicators, activities and output-based budgets.
* At the individual level, ministry employees, starting at the top, will discuss and agree on three or
more individual objectives that should be linked to ministry's targets identified in its operational plan.
Development and training needs arising from this will also be agreed, prioritized and scheduled.
8.     It is anticipated that performance reviews of all three plans (strategic, organizational and
individual) will be undertaken at least twice a year. This process will include review of progress towards
achieving the specified "quick-wins" for the year.
9.     There are four distinct phases of the PIC:
* Review of strategic plans;
* Annual planning and activity budgeting;
* Independent evaluation of plans and budgets;
* Monitoring, evaluation and appraisals.
Review of strategic plans
10.    The ministry will be required to set the direction of their organization for the next three years
through a review of their current strategic plans and defining new plans. The ministry's management
will:
* Assess the extent to which current functions and activities match each Ministry's mission, vision and
goals; identify poorly performing or duplicated functions/activities; agree upon new functions and
activities; which ones should be discontinued, and what are the "quick wins".
* Define strategic performance indicators ("critical success factors") to monitor progress and for
reporting purposes;
* Prepare a revised strategic plan for the ministry with a central focus on achieving the quick wins. This
strategic plan will be within the Medium Term Financial Framework agreed between the ministry and
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (see Box 1 below).



105
Box 1: Strategic Planning to be within Medium Term Financial Framework
The strategic plans by ministries using PIF will be within the Medium Term Financial
Framework (MTFF)2 agreed between the ministry and the MOFED3.  This ensures the
relevance of the plans.
When the GRZ launches the implementation of a comprehensive MTFF in ministries, it is
anticipated that:
(a) Strategic planning by ministries will be an intermediate but mandatory phase of the MTFF
process. Preceding phases will include macroeconomic forecasts and definition of sector
policies and strategies;
(b) This will be a framework for ensuring a firm link between public service reform and public
financial management reform programs.
Annual planning and activity budgeting
I1.    On the basis of the strategic planning results, the ministry will:
*  Project expected outputs to achieve during the year, together with activities required to achieve the
outputs.
e  Prepare budgets for the activities. Priorities will be within the resource envelope available.
*  Finalize plans and budget.
*  Have its employees agree on how they will contribute to reaching the objectives. This will be done by
setting and agreeing objectives for each individual, based on the Performance Review and Appraisal
process whereby individual performance is linked with the ministry's goals and objectives, and
development needs and identified and planned for.
Evaluation of plans and budgets
12.    During this stage, Ministries will submit plans and budgets to a central team responsible for the
technical management of the PIF. The plans and budget will be evaluated by the team, which will have
expertise to check the requirements. The evaluation team will develop a set of standard criteria for
examining plans and budgets.
13.    On the basis of this evaluation, a ministry will be cleared to access the PIF resources to
implement its work plan, to the extent that these are not already funded from GRZ revenues or by other
donors. Specific interventions that could be financed by PIF include:
*  Technical assistance and consultancies at all stages of the PIC;
*  Contract-hire of technical and professional staff to fill crucial skills gaps;
2  MTFF is the Zambian version of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
3  In proper practice, the credibility of a ministry's strategic plan should influence the ministry's allocation in the
MTFF. Therefore, in the ideal situation, a draft strategic plan should be the basis of negotiations for resources
allocation between the ministry and MOFED well before the final MTFF is promulgated as part of the annual
budget guidelines. In any case, the final strategic plan must be consistent with the final MTFF.



106
*  The performance-based payments to technical and professional staff responsible for accomplishing
specific tasks in the annual work plan;
* Demand-driven training focusing on equipping public servants with knowledge and skills to achieve
the capacity and performance improvements specified in the strategic plan; and
* Work tools and equipment needed to accomplish the priority "quick-win" services improvements.
Monitoring, evaluation and appraising
14.   During the year there will be continuos monitoring and evaluation of implementation of the work
plans supported by PIF in each ministry, with particular focus on progress in the "quick-wins' targets.
Monitoring and evaluation in each ministry may take the form of:
* Monthly review sessions where the Ministries' management provide updates on implementation
actions.
* Repeat Service Delivery Surveys to assess customer satisfaction and other participatory approaches.
* Impact assessment studies of new implemented policies and procedures.
* Financial and value-for-money audits by the Controller and Auditor-General.
* Staff appraisals.
Box 2: Work plans, staff appraisals and performance-based incentives
All technical and professional staff in a ministry involved in the implementation of PIC
with support from the PIF will have individual work plans derived from their respective
departmental work plans. The results of monitoring and evaluating performance against
the work plans will therefore be the basis of annual staff appraisals.
Under the new policy whereby the traditional practices of automatic annual salary
increases and promotions based on schemes of service will be abandoned, the results of
the performance-based staff appraisals will be the basis for determining the annual salary
increments and promotions. In this way, the PIF will support the introduction of
performance-based incentives across the civil service.
15.   Ministries will maintain adequate documentation to support the results of the M&E process. In
addition, Ministries will demonstrate commitment and learning through continuous improvement by:
* Reporting to key stakeholders on their performance (success and areas for improvements) with
respect to achieving "quick-wins" and other key results highlighted during the annual planning and
budget process.
* Providing comments and action plans resulting from audits and reviews undertaken during the period.
* Disseminating results to the appropriate level within the ministry and outside for follow-up and
action.
*  Recognizing and rewarding individual performance and sanctioning lack of performance.
* Improving procedures to accommodate feedback from monitoring functions.
Accessing PIF by Ministries
16.   Once these plans and budgets have been assessed and funding levels approved by the central
technical team, the ministry will prepare a cash flow plan indicating cash requirements from the PIF during the



107
year, and on this basis submit an application for the funds to the Fund Manager (PSCAP Director).
17.   The Fund Manager will make the necessary arrangements to disburse cash or other resources to
the ministry according to the Ministry's cash flow plan.
18.    Further drawdowns will be contingent on clear improved performance against the identified key
performance indicators.
Box 3: Link to Budget and Institutional Incentives
Detailed design of the Fund implementation arrangements will be specified in
consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (see attached
Terms of Reference). In this process the designer will explore:
*  The opportunities and framework for linking the PIC with the budget process, and
particularly the implementation of the MTFF in the pilot ministries; and
*  The scope for availing budgetary incentives to ministries that are assessed to make
good progress in the PIF application. In particular, the case for phasing out such
ministries from the "Cash Budget" funding will be evaluated.
Fund Administration Arrangements
19.   The PSCAP Director will be designated PIF "Fund Manager". In this role, the Fund Manager will
be assisted by the Project Implementation Coordination Team (PICT).
20.   With regard to PIF, the specific activities to be undertaken by the PICT will include:
*  Creating awareness of the PIF in ministries through information.
*  Distributing application forms and guidance needed to lodge requests for financing from the PIF, and
verifying and processing applications for funding.
*  Supporting procurement by Ministries.
*  Developing checklists to guide the technical team in the evaluation of annual plans, applications for
financing and performance reports received from Ministries.
*  Authorizing approved disbursements from the PIF.
*  Providing regular progress reports on Ministries' results with respect to PIF-financed activities to the
Deputy Secretary to Cabinet and the Steering Committee.
Accounting and reporting
21.   Accounting for the PIF will follow the Loan Administrative Change Initiative (LACI). Bank
guidelines to ensure that financial management, procurement, accounting and reporting systems comply
with LACI will be completed before credit effectiveness.
22.   The PSCAP Finance Manager will be responsible for the following specific aspects of fund
management:
* Estimating annual financing needs identified during the annual planning and budgeting process and
matching them against amounts to be made available.



108
*  Day-to-day management of the PIF account including maintaining a cashbook and reconciling bank
statement against cashbook balances.
*  Maintaining a suitable management information system to allow for recording, tracking, monitoring
and evaluating PIF flows.
*  Making authorized payments from the PIF account to ministries and departments.
*  Ensuring that adequate financial controls are in place to maintain propriety and proper accountability
for expenditure.
* Designing standard formats for filing reporting returns.
* Collecting and consolidating returns from Ministries.
*  Reporting periodically on fund flows for management's use and audit purposes.
23.    The regular accounting reports that will be prepared on the fund by the PSCAP Financial
Manager include the following:
*  Annual financing requirements by ministries.
*  Deposits received into the PIF by type of donor.
*  Disbursements made by ministry and type of release.
*  Allocations utilized during a period or in the year to date.
*  Schedule of any backlogs, in terms of approved applications for which there is no funding available.
24.    Details of the fund's technical, administrative, financial and accounting procedures and controls will
be specified in accordance with the attached terms of reference (Appendix 1) before credit effectiveness.



109
Annex 13: Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
Zambia: Public Service Capacity Building Program (Phase 1)
This annex outlines how the PSCAP team will respond to various categories of management challenges as
they occur throughout the program.
Management Principles. An overriding principle to be applied in the management of PSCAP is that the
implementation team, which spans a number of ministries, agencies and levels of seniority, will conduct
their work and relationships with fellow program implementers in a collegial, problem-solving manner.
As a Zambian-designed program, it is recognized that all of the programmed activities and desired
outcomes of PSCAP respond to locally generated assessments of the current public service and Zambian
prescriptions for critical remedial actions. Therefore, the task of the program implementation team is to
organize and provide the assistance to the stakeholder organizations that they themselves have requested.
This is not to say that the normal types of management challenges that present themselves in the course of
any program's implementation will be completely avoided. However, management for results using
influence and dialogue-as opposed to imposition and coercion-will be the practices of choice.
Program Organization. The Program will be led by what is collectively referred to as theLeadership
and Management Team, which is firtnly embedded inside the public service itself. The Leadership and
Management Team is comprised of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet - Finance/Economic Development, the
chief executive of each implementing agency, and the following groupings: the Steering Committee,
Program Implementation and Coordination Team (PIC), and the Technical Committee. The Steering
Committee, which serves an advisory and coordinating function, is comprised of the Deputy Secretary to
the Cabinet - Finance/Economic Development. and the chief executive of all implementing agencies. The
technical staff of PIC consists of the Director/PIC, Finance Manager/PIC, Procurement Manager/PIC and
M&E Manager/PIC. Their function is to advise the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic
Development and implementing agencies on program-related matters that require their attention. The PIC
also serves a coordinating and facilitative role to maximize program effectiveness and timeliness. The
Technical Committee, which is meant to serve as a venue to discuss operational program implementation
matters, includes as its members the technical PIC staff and a designate from each of the implementing
agencies, who will be known as sub-component task managers.
Members of the Steering Committee include Permanent Secretaries from central government ministries
and agencies (the PSMD, MDD, and PAC from the Cabinet Office, MOFED, MOLA, MH, ME and
MLSS) and the chief executives of the other implementing agencies.  If necessary, the Steering
Committee will refer major policy issues to the Cabinet, through the relevant Cabinet Committee(s). The
Steering Committee will meet at least once every quarterly to:
* review and assess progress in project implementation (as comprehensively reported by the DPS-FED
and Director/PIC);
*  deliberate on policy and strategic issues on the PSCAP (within the PSRP framework);
*  address inter-sectoral and inter-programs co-ordination issues; and
*  give advice to the DPS-FED
Each sub-component of the project will be led by the chief executive of the implementing agency,
assisted by a task manager who will manage the day-to-day activities relevant to PSCAP. The DSC-FED
and PIC Team will meet with all the sub-component managers on a weekly basis at the beginning of the
program and then monthly once the work programs have settled down. (See Figure 3)



110
FIGURE 3:
PSCAP
Leadership and Management
Team
PROGRAM
DIRECTOR    *_,_ _
(Deputy Secretary*        /   PSRPIPSCAP        _
to the Cabinet,                Steering
Finance &/                 Committee
Economic Dev.)              (C        ED
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
E 2 o                                                                                           /--Technical
2   ( "                                             _                                            Commiftee
2 Ci E   C                                                                                   X    (Chair: Director/
o                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIC)
T     Ma
CEOlImplementn         CEO Implementn         CEOlImplementn         CEO Implementn 9        CEO Implementing 
Agency                 Agency                 Agency                 Agency                 Agency 
I_~~~~~Ts Manaer                         Task Manager            Task Ma       n      S Tas Managr



III
Management Challenges. In addition to sound financial management and procurement practices,
successful implementation of PSCAP depends on the Program Leadership and Management Team's
timely and effective response to other categories of management challenges as they occur throughout the
life of the program. Below are several categories of challenges associated with program management,
along with PSCAP's approach to addressing them.
a) Decision management. As a guiding principle, authority and responsibility for PSCAP results will
be decentralized as much as possible, with the minimal amount of bureaucracy as is practicable. On
an operational level, this means that decisions of a substantive nature will, in the first instance, be
made by the chief executives of the implementing agencies working with their sub-component task
manager. The Director/PIC's role will be to ensure the integrity and coherence of the program's
implementation, particularly with regard to compliance with agreed procedures. As appropriate and
warranted, the Director/PIC will advise chief executives of implementing agencies on substantive and
technical issues, and advise and update the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet - Finance/Economic
Development on all program-related matters. The Program Director, advised by both the PIC and the
Steering Committee, will be responsible for decisions related to achievement of overall triggers and
results, program policies and remedial actions. Decisions relating to procurement will be guided by
ZNTB procurement requirements and World Bank standards.
b) Planning and control. It is the role of the chief executives (mainly the PSs) of implementing
agencies to plan and oversee the activities that will lead to the achievement of the results for which
they are responsible. The Program Implementation and Coordination Team (PIC) is to assist the
Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic Development in coordinating and integrating
program activities. In the first instance, theirs is a facilitative role meant to improve the efficiency
with which the program is carried out and effectiveness in achieving targeted results. However, they
may be required to take a more decisive stance when the achievement of program results appears to
be jeopardized.  The reporting and coordinating arrangements described in this section under
"Communications" (below) are designed to strengthen the planning and control of the program.
c) Results management. The Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic Development bears
overall responsibility for the achievements of the triggers associated with the program. The Deputy
Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic Development is assisted in this endeavor by the
Director/PIC who plays a supportive and catalytic role in the implementation of the program. In
addition, the Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist/PIC is responsible for monitoring the progress of
all components in relation to the annual work plan and will measure progress toward agreed results.
At the same time, the chief executives of implementing agencies are responsible for the achievement
of agreed results in their sub-components. Should a serious lag in performance be identified, the
Director/PIC will be consulted and present a summary of the situation along with recommended
remedy to the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic Development, who may consult
the Steering Committee in deciding how to address the performance shortfall.
d) Quality management. Quality will be an over-riding theme of the program. This concept applies to
the manner in which the program is carried out and the services the public service as a whole is to
provide. Consistent with this theme, performance standards will be developed for the program
management team, the products of procurement or technical assistance activities, and the individual
agencies assisted by the program. For example, the PIC's performance may be assessed by the
Steering Committee and the sub-components' task managers using some combination of subjective
and objective criteria; the Steering Committee's performance may be assessed in a similar manner by
the PIC and the sub-component task managers, etc..
e) Cost management. Should cost overruns occur or mis-budgeted activities be discovered, the chief
executives of the implementing organizations have authority to make limited adjustments to their
component budgets within expenditure categories to reconcile the budget.  However, such
reallocations do not relieve the chief executive of the responsibility to achieve the overall results for



112
their sub-components. Should more drastic cost management measures be necessary, the chief
executives or their designates will work with the PIC Director and finance officer to develop
corrective actions. The nature of cost management issues that arise during a reporting period, along
with remedies taken, will be shared with the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet - Finance/Economic
Development and Steering Committee in quarterly reports and informal discussions.
f) Contract/Procurement management.  Responsibility for contracting technical assistance and
procuring materials, to the limits of their procurement thresholds, lies with the chief executive of the
implementing agencies. The PIC will assist in the effort by placing advertisements for bids and
proposals, and advising on the composition of the sub-component team that will evaluate the resulting
applications. It is the responsibility of the implementing agency to negotiate contracts for goods and
services within their thresholds and to write the resulting contracts. The ZNTB will be responsible for
procurements above the implementing agencies' procurement thresholds. Bulk purchases of common
requirements will be the responsibility of the Cabinet Office Procurement and Supplies Unit. The
results of all procurement processes must be acceptable to the controlling officer of ZNTB and the
World Bank task manager, and be consistent with the procurement procedures set forth in Annex 6.
g) Human resource management. All members of the Program Implementation and Coordination
Team (PIC) will be hired through an openly competitive recruitment process using UJNDP salary
guidelines. A local search firm may be retained to assist with the initial recruitment effort, however,
final selection will be made by the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-Finance/Economic
Development after conferring with the Steering Committee. Should the successful candidate for any
of the PIC positions be a current civil servant, that person will make arrangements to take leave of
absence from his/her civil service post and enter into a contractual arrangement to fill the PIC
position.
h) Time management. This relates to the creation of work plans and the monitoring of progress
according to agreed timetables working with their sub-component task manager(s).  it is the
responsibility of the chief operating officers of implementing agencies to develop annual action plans.
Although these plans will be guided by the most current budget and logical framework for the program,
discretion relating to the sequencing and timing of activities rests with the chief executive. Annual
work plans from all of the sub-components are to be submitted to, compiled and analyzed by the PIC in
terms of consistency of program undertakings across components and feasibility of programmed
activities in terms of time requirements for procurements and other actions . The compiled annual work
plan, along with PIC's comments, will be presented to the Steering Committee for discussion and
comment.
i) Scope management. Scope management refers to the strategic management of components by chief
executives, particularly identifying the need for new activities in order to achieve desired results or
abandonment of programmed activities that for a variety of reasons may become irrelevant. It is the
responsibility of the chief executive of implementing agencies to constantly monitor their sectors to
determine the relevance and efficacy of planned activities. Should the need to adjust a sub-
component strategy become apparent, the recommended modification is to be referred to the PSCAP
Technical Committee for discussion. The proposed new strategy is forwarded to the Steering
Committee for discussion and comment. The Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet - Finance/Economic
Development, advised in effect by the entire Management Team, will make the final decision on such
matters.
j)  Communications management. The series of reporting and coordinating arrangements described
below are meant to ensure that critical information relating to progress, performance gaps, and
impacts of the program are accessible to the most appropriate parties. These reporting arrangements
are an integral part of sound program management, and will be used in the preparation of quarterly
Program Management Reports (PMRs) to the World Bank:



113
Communications between the Technical Committee and PSCAP Program Implementation and
Coordination Team. Technical Committee members will meet on a weekly basis with the PIC
during the first months of the program. The frequency of meeting may be reduced after program
routines are well understood and the implementation of planned activities is underway. Topics for
discussion include procurement and financial matters, coordination of technical or substantive
activities, and discussion of performance issues. On an ad hoc basis, members of the PIC,
individual Technical Committee members and their corresponding sub-components managers may
meet to discuss and remedy problems and issues such as cost management issues, performance
issues, etc..
Communications between the chief executives of implementing agencies and PSCAP Program
Implementation and Coordination Team. As needed, the PIC team will be available to assist in
development of options to remedy implementation problems encountered by implementation
agencies. In addition to this interaction, chief executives of implementing agencies will be
responsible for the preparation and submission of quarterly reports to the PIC summarizing
progress and issues relevant to their areas of responsibility.
Communications between the PSCAP Program Implementation and Coordination Team and the
PSCAP Steering Committee. PIC will prepare, on behalf of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet -
Finance/Economic Development, quarterly reports for discussion at quarterly Steering Committee
meetings.
Communications between the PSCAP Steering Committee and Cabinet From time to time, it may
be necessary or useful to prepare information or action memoranda for the attention of the Cabinet.
Items appropriate for Information Memoranda might include reports on program progress or
impacts (positive and negative). The preparation of Cabinet Memoranda for decision by the
Cabinet may be necessary if it becomes apparent that a government policy decision is required for
the desired program results to be achieved. Decisions will be made on a case-by-case basis
regarding which agencies and actors should be involved in the preparation of the Cabinet
Memoranda.
Communications between GRZ and the public. It is particularly important that communications
between the GRZ and the public flow in two directions. The PIC, in consultation with other
ministerial and government media relations officers as necessary, will pyepare information
materials to inform the public of the objectives of PSCAP, planned means to achieve the
objectives, and expected and actual results. In addition to the normal use of news releases and
press conferences, the PIC will take responsibility for creating a program website. The format of
the website will include both information about the program and venues for public comment and
suggestions. To augment this process, a pool of program resources will be used to commission
local research institutions to conduct focus groups and studies that will further inform program
decision makers of the public's perceptions and views.
Communications between the World Bank and the PSCAP Leadership and Management Team.
Although an environment of open and free exchange of information and perspective will be
practiced, formal communications will be conducted between the World Bank task manager, the
Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet, Finance/Economic Development, and the Director/PIC.
Overall Program Team Communications. To facilitate communications between the entire program
management team (PIC, chief executives of implementing organizations, technical committee,
steering committee), e-mail capacity will be made available to each individual member of these
groups. Individuals will be encouraged to make use of the informal and rapid communication made
possible through the use of e-mail to increase efficiency in decision making and overall program
management.



114
k) Risk management.  It is the responsibility of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet-
Finance/Economic Development, supported by the Director/PIC, to monitor the risks outlined in
Table 6 and to coordinate risk minimization measures in the event that critical program assumptions
do not hold. This will be done in consultation with both the Steering Committee and the World Bank
task manager.
1) Resource management. Resources will be acquired and managed according to the procurement
guidelines set forth herein. To economize, bulk purchases of equipment will be made whenever
possible. The Finance Director/PIC will maintain a complete inventory of items purchased through
the program and their location. Equipment that becomes obsolete will be boarded according to GRZ
procedures.
m) Conflict management. As a general principle, differences will be settled as closely as possible to the
source of the dispute. In cases where resolution is not forthcoming, the PIC may be called in to
mediate. Only in extreme instances would differences be referred to the Deputy Secretary to the
Cabinet - Finance/Economic Development or Steering Committee. Such instances may arise,
however, when differences in perspective between the sub-component managers and the PIC cannot
be resolved through dialogue and negotiation.
n) Document (Storage and Access) management.  All PSCAP activities will be assigned unique
numbers that make it apparent which component and sub-component the activity supports. AlIRFPs,
TORs, draft reports, reports, evaluations and communications related to that activity will also adhere
to this numbering scheme and be stored electronically by the sub-component managers. Electronic
versions of TORs and final reports will be provided to the M&E Director/ PIC as a matter of standard
procedure. Master program files will be compiled and maintained in the PIC location. Lists of
program reports will be included in the quarterly reports to the Steering Committee. Paper copies of
program reports will be made available upon request to members of the program management team
and the public (unless there is very compelling reason not to release the document).
Other Reporting and Supervision. Drawing from the reports developed to monitor and manage
program activities, quarterly reports to the World Bank will be prepared by the PIC that provide
information relevant to PSCAP's financial status, procurement actions, and progress toward outputs.
These reports will be consistent with World Bank LACI and PMR formats and requirements.
Donors supporting PSCAP will jointly supervise the project by participating in joint supervision missions
and in the Mid-Term Review of the program. The purpose of the Mid-Term Review is to assess the
adequacy of the program's focus, structure and personnel to meet end-of-phase objectives, and allow
sufficient time to develop mid-course corrections, need be. Six months before the end of Phase 1,
progress in achieving the triggers will be reviewed. If one or more of the triggers are not on track to be
achieved, a plan will be prepared specifying what measures will be take to meet the targets.
Monitoring and Evaluation. As noted above, external evaluations or reviews of the program will be
carried out mid-way through and toward the conclusion of Phase 1. However, these reviews do not
substitute for sound project management practices, which require constant monitoring of program
activities and regular evaluation of their impact. While financial and procurement audits are certainly key
aspects of program monitoring and evaluation, equally important are assessments of the efficacy of
program management systems and the impacts (planned and unplanned) of program activities-
particularly in relation to the achievement of program targets. This means that systems must be in place
that enable the collection of data, the compilation and analysis of disparate forms of information, and the
development of conclusions and recommendations to inform future project action.
In a general sense, monitoring and evaluation activities are the responsibility of the Leadership and
Management Team as a whole. Each member of the Team can expect to be involved in one aspect of
M&E or another (generating, analyzing or making decisions based on monitoring data). On an operational



115
level, technical (as opposed to financial or procurement) PSCAP monitoring and evaluation activities will
be guided by the M&E Manager/PIC. The M&E Manager will be available to assist the chief executives
and task managers of implementing agencies to plan baseline surveys and other studies, refine
performance indicators (found in Annex 1), identify existing data sets, and draw conclusions from the
surveys and studies. The M&E Manager/PIC will also be responsible for establishing reporting schedules
and monitoring progress on all components (drawing from reports produced at the sub-component level)
in relation to the annual work plan and toward the achievement of overall program targets, such as the
triggers. The M&E Manager/PIC will provide written and oral briefings to the Director/PIC on the
process and outcome of monitoring and evaluation activities. The information produced through the
program's monitoring and evaluation initiatives will provide important input into the external evaluations
and reviews conducted periodically throughout the life of the program.
The program design also recognizes that monitoring and evaluation is a critical and ongoing function of
central government itself. Ministries must be able to track key trends in the sectors for which they are
responsible and to use monitoring information to identify the need for action. For that reason, a major
activity is planned to develop a monitoring system under the Policy Management sub-component of
Component 2. Systems will be developed and piloted that will help get critical information into the hands
of policy makers when it is needed. To support this, training in monitoring and evaluation techniques
and in the new M&E system will be provided to targeted individuals in the civil service. Likewise, under
the "Accountability" sub-component of Component 3, the Office of the Auditor General will begin
training auditors in Performance Auditing. Performance auditing goes beyond traditional auditing
practices, which mainly verify whether approved resources have been applied to their intended purpose.
In addition to ascertaining this important information, performance audits also seek answers to questions
like, Could the same goods or services been acquired for less? Could better goods or services have been
acquired for the same amount? And, Were the intended benefits accrued through the purchase?
Performance Auditing systems will be broadly introduced in Phase 2.
Financial management.  The Common Services Accounting Unit (CSAU) will be responsible for
maintaining accounting records for all project-related expenditures following generally accepted
accounting principals. In light of CSAU' added responsibility of providing strong financial management
to PSCAP, additional capacity in accounting, financial reporting and internal controls will be added to the
unit. This will include the upgrading of the financial accounting system to a computerized financial
reporting system and the training of staff to enable CSAU provide reliable and timely management
information to the project. In addition, a professionally qualified accountant with requisite skills will be
recruited to handle project finances. Oversight will be provided by a Finance Committee.
Project records and accounts, including the Special Account and Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), will
be audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and with terms of reference approved by the Bank. Audit reports will be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months following the end of the fiscal year.
The action plan for the remaining requirements to ensure the operation of a sound financial management
system and to introduce PMR- based disbursements within 18 months will be agreed upon at negotiations.
Consulting and Training Services. A total of over $20 million of consulting and training services will
have to be procured over three years to serve six components. The most effective ways to do this will
continue to be reviewed during appraisal. The options include having a large number of separate
procurements, which will be administratively time-consuming, or have a small number of institutional
procurements, which would be easier to administer but perhaps less sensitive to the separate needs of the
Component Managers. An extreme case would be to have a single firm provide all technical support,
including the training support, but require that firm to appoint its own component managers and also to
link up with local firms, if the firm is not itself local, in the interests of capacity building.



MAP SECTION



24-
0 2   Z  A  M   B  I A                                         *  /                                   \_                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T A N Z A N IA
TRUNK AND MAIN ROADS         RIVERS
___ RAILROADS            _          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
o   SELECTED CITIES              INTERNALTONAL BOUNDARIES
o   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                           KASAMA
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                             1  
Ct-4\-                          ~~~~DEM. REP. OF CONGO                                                     O  TE     
2 q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T.  L.6it. /yS 
SOLWEZI                                                              \                                     MA  [AWI
~~~uuu}/6/ZA   N   G   0   L  A                                                                                                                         L
t _ GABON) / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RWANDAA                                     KENYA
Lunshya    NDOLAC                                                                 BURUND
i}  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DM RERoa3                                                          OP CNONGO
.  The abonari5e Ms, colos  enoo ront co  Zn  oAe inlboootion
9 < C~~~Zm bei                                            Smb                                                    Z                         CHPT              MABLA  BW EtMMIa
mNAMIBAhoon  l mop do iot ,oply. on the pore  h Wr Roo Cru,          SOUTH AFRICA                'An
_ vV \ t c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ny judgonent on the leteol sthStof cny territory, cr cny endornemnron4
EoS T E  k 0 T OSWAN A                                        . uorrceptoneeochlndanes                                                                               '0



