                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34450

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-33290 PPFI-Q1440 PPFI-Q1441)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.4 MILLION (US$28 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                         PUBLIC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                              IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
                        PUBLIC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM




                                           December 28, 2005




Public Sector Reform Capacity Building Unit
Country Department 3
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 28, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha
                         ZMK1 = US$ 0.0003034
                         US$ 1 = ZMK3295

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1     December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



                 Vice President:   Gobind Nankani
              Country Director     Hartwig Schafer
               Sector Manager      Helga Muller
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Ross Worthington

                                              ZAMBIA
                     PUBLIC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE PUBLIC SERVICE CAPACITY BUILDING
                                             PROGRAM


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
   6. Sustainability                                                                13
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
   9. Partner Comments                                                              16
   10. Additional Information                                                       17
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
   Annex 8. Supplementary Tables                                                    35

Project ID: P050400                                                  Project Name: ZM-PSCAP (FY00)
Team Leader: Ross Worthington                                        TL Unit: AFTPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ZM-PSCAP (FY00)                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-33290; PPFI-Q1440;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1441
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (95%); Law and justice (5%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption (P);
                            Decentralization (P); Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (S); Legal services (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/15/1999                                     Effective: 10/03/2000                10/03/2000
     Appraisal: 09/21/1999                                         MTR: 10/30/2002                  10/14/2002
      Approval: 03/28/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV. OF THE REP. OF ZAMBIA/CABINET OFFICE
                      Other Partners:      DFID

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Phyllis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:                 Helga W. Muller                                Brian Levy
Team Leader at ICR:             Ross Worthington                               Harry Garnett
ICR Primary Author:             Ross Worthington


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary development objective (DO) of the project was: to make public service delivery processes
more effective and efficient in order to facilitate economic growth and reduce poverty. The DO supported
two strategic areas of the 1999 CAS (1) improved governance through improving transparency and
accountability, strengthening public sector efficiency and capacity, fostering local government and
decentralization; and (2) better access to basic services and direct poverty reduction interventions. It also
supported the objectives of the Zambia PRSP which has a strong focus on accountability, expenditure
management and good economic governance.

Since this was seen as a long term objective, PSCAP was designed as a three phase, 13 year Adaptable
Program Lending instrument (APL), originally with Phase 1 lasting three years and the following two
phases five years each. Implementation of each phase, which has a phase-specific DO, is dependent on a set
of triggers being met for the preceding phase. This ICR reports on Phase 1 only.

The Phase 1 DO was: to design and implement critical system-wide reforms that will support improved
service delivery. These reforms included rationalizing staffing, particularly in the core civil service,
reforming pay, introducing more effective management of payroll and establishment, replacing the cash
budget with a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), improving financial management systems,
accelerating privatization and private sector participation in the economy.

Phase 2 would roll out the systems developed and piloted under Phase 1 throughout the public service and
result in service provision being at least partially decentralized with greater community involvement. Phase
3, was to be a consolidation phase during which the benefits of the previous phases would be monitored and
evaluated and appropriate adjustments made to make them even more effective.

Since the design of the project and its Phase 1 implementation, GRZ, in association with the donor
community has been reviewing its aid, national planning and public sector management frameworks. This
has resulted in a highly harmonized development framework, the Joint Assistance Strategy for Zambia
(JASZ) and adoption of a policy by GRZ that individual donor projects should cease and programmatic
approaches, through sector-wide approaches (SWAps) and other joint assistance mechanisms, be adopted.
With regard to this project, the planned Phase Two is not being implemented as planned under the original
APL. Instead, IDA's funding will be made through a harmonized approach of pooling of funds with other
donors (two SWAps in partnership with 11 other donors plus a stand alone Bank funded retrenchment
activity) to the GRZ's Public Service Reform Program (PSRP). The two components of the PSRP, focused
on public expenditure management and civil service reform, are a US$100 million program to which IDA is
contributing US$30 million, hence the change of name of IDA's support to Public Sector Management
Program-Support Project (PSMP-SP - P082452) rather than PSCAP Phase 2 due to go to the Board on
January 6 2006. Therefore a core ICR is being completed for PSCAP Phase 1 rather than an Intensive
Learning ICR (ILI) ICR.

The original objective was very ambitious. At appraisal it was recognized that although it had been
acknowledged through the use of an APL, that such wide ranging reforms would require a lengthy
implementation period, their realization in a still maturing political and bureaucratic environment had been
too optimistic and their complexity somewhat underrated. In contrast, the triggers for transition from Phase
1 to Phase 2 of the APL were realistic and well defined. The project was designed at the end of the Chiluba
Administration, during which time there was little genuine support for reform, particularly in increasing
public sector transparency and accountability, although GRZ still publicly voiced support for such reforms.



                                                       - 2 -

The project team, on both the Bank and GRZ sides, at design and appraisal stages almost certainly as a
consequence, received mixed messages from government as to the degree of political will behind the
reforms and the ownership within the senior levels of the public service for the reforms. Van der Heijden
(2003), pp. 90-91; McPherson (2004), pp. 68-70 For example; (i) at the time of appraisal in 1999, the
constitutional changes that had been assumed in the project design had not been considered by government;
and (ii) the 1998-99 budget included many conflicting policy messages such as a reduction in public service
staffing but additional spending on public service housing for new staff. McPherson (2004), pp. 69
Additionally, during the first two years of implementation following a change of government, several
government officials were charged with corruption related offences, thus removing from government
considerable corporate memory of the project. Although the same party continued in power, major changes
in personnel were made at ministerial and senior public service levels, resulting in views of the project and
its purposes and priorities that may have been different from that of the government with which the project
was negotiated, thus impacting on project implementation and execution.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had six components, all of which had a large number of subcomponents. Details of the
components and number of subcomponents is provided in Annex 8, Table 1.

Component 1 focused on rightsizing, public service restructuring, pay reform, payroll and establishment
control, introduction of performance contracts, strengthening public service social safety net programs and
divestment of non-core functions. DFID provided funding and project management for the payroll and
establishment control subcomponent.

Component 2 was intended to support the implementation of priority services and ministry performance
improvement plans through a centrally managed Performance Improvement Fund (PIF), and to implement a
number of policy management reforms. The PIF aimed to create a gender-sensitive and result-oriented
public service, conduct strategic management training courses for managers and determine the impact of
HIV/AIDS on the productivity and composition of the public service. Policy management reforms included
strengthening the linkages between the policy-making and budget processes, enhancing capacity for legal
advice in the policy process, strengthening policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation procedures,
improving policy management skills throughout the public service, and improving transparency,
accountability and participation in the policy process.

Component 3 aimed at introducing reforms in almost all areas of public expenditure management (PEM).
Although several donors were anticipated to provide complementary funding and support - DFID, EU,
UNDP, Irish Aid, NORAD and the Netherlands ­ eventually none did. This component involved: providing
technical advisory services in PEM; adoption of a Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in
association with an Integrated Financial Management Information System (IFMIS); reforming the treasury
management system; strengthening the independence of the Office of the Auditor General (OAG); building
the capacity of the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) as a policy, standards and oversight body;
capacity building of the core functions of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED),
OAG, ZNTB and the Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly; and strengthening the
capacity of the Zambian Institute of Chartered Accountants (ZICA) and other accountancy training
institutions.

Component 4 involved the provision of legal technical advisory services, the training of legal and judicial



                                                    - 3 -

staff in the Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) and the judiciary, the revision of legislation impacting on
accountability and transparency, and the rehabilitation of three courts.

Component 5 focused on the finalization and implementation of the GRZ's decentralization policy, its
implementation, and citizen surveys on the quality of service delivery and ways in which service delivery
could be improved through decentralization.

Component 6 established a Project Implementation and Coordinating Unit (PICU) to manage the
project.

It can be argued that the project attempted to address too many aspects of public expenditure and civil
service reform within a single project. When the project management component is excluded, the project
attempted to address 34 subcomponents of which the appraisal team identified 21 (62%) as being major
reform subcomponents. While individually the need for each of these reforms can be validated, their
inclusion in a single project, even within the APL framework, is a very ambitious implementation
challenge.


3.4 Revised Components:
The overall components were not revised, although some subcomponents were either not implemented,
revised or added. In Component 1, the rightsizing subcomponent was revised to allow for an additional
allocation of US$10 million for retrenchments following an amendment to the DCA. In Component 2, the
Performance Improvement Fund was revised to focus on providing support to MDAs which had public
service delivery functions and the subcomponent on reducing gender bias in the public service was revised
to limit its activities to the establishment of a Gender Information Resource Center and website. In
Component 3, the IFMIS was only partly implemented and funds reallocated to the PIF. In Component 4,
an additional subcomponent was introduced to provide for capacity building in the Commission of
Investigation (CFI) to support the government's anti-corruption program. In Component Five, the
subcomponent for building the capacity of civil society organizations to participate in public service reform
dialogue was not implemented due to no budget allocation under the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
(Moderately Unsatisfactory)

The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not review the project at entry. The ICR has assessed the quality
at entry as moderately unsatisfactory for the following reasons: (i) the GRZ PICU has itself assessed
quality at entry as unsatisfactory because of a lack of preparedness on the part of government at project
implementation resulting in slow implementation; and, (ii) problems in project design that could have been
identified at appraisal impacted negatively on implementation and the achievement of objectives.

Although GRZ was actively involved in project design, the government and Bank project teams did not
adequately assess the readiness of the key GRZ implementing ministries, departments and agencies
(MDAs) for such an ambitious reform program, particularly given the lack of significant achievements
under the GRZ Public Service Reform Program (PSRP) launched in 1993. There was therefore a lack of
preparedness on the part of government at project implementation and excessive expectations of project
readiness by the Bank, which neither the Government nor the Bank team fully took account of. This was
reflected in a number of project design problems which led to component or subcomponent
non-implementation, failure, or under-performance. Six design problems, which could have been identified
at appraisal, which inhibited the project achieving an overall satisfactory level of performance stand out.


                                                     - 4 -

        (i)      Ignoring the overlap that might occur between the project's gender equity
        subcomponent and the implementation by GRZ of its National Gender Policy (NGP). The
        NGP existed at the appraisal stage and its implementation impact on the project should have been
        considered more fully. Not doing so led to the inclusion of gender policy targets, gender equity
        activities and a gender equity objective in the project, that should have been omitted as they were
        covered by GRZ's own gender program. This resulted in this activity objective not being met.

        (ii)     Including three implementing agencies for the Annual Performance Appraisal System
        (APAS) led to role confusion and the exit of one agency (the National Institute of Public
        Administration (NIPA) which was made autonomous under the restructuring program. It caused
        poor implementation of APAS, failure to implement the performance appraisal activity which at
        closure was still not functional, and so did not meet its objective.

        (iii)    Omitting the need for medium to long-term training to sustainably implement
        strategic planning resulted in under-funding of the strategic management activity, a lack of
        continuity in strategic planning, poor implementation and in some MDAs a disconnect between
        strategic planning and budget cycle planning within the MTEF.

        (iv)     Under-estimating the complexity of the IFMIS implementation and over-estimating
        GRZ capacity to implement it led to considerable conflict between the Borrower and the Bank on
        IFMIS specifications, procurement and implementation issues and resulted in the failure to
        implement this activity.

        (v)      Not taking full account of the need for constitutional amendments to make the OAG
        independent of the Executive and reforming the public service pension scheme. was a serious
        oversight at the design and appraisal stages and made these subcomponents impossible to
        implement. Their implementation required agreement by the National Assembly and the Executive
        in a political environment in which the government could not be certain of its ability to pass
        constitutional amendments.

        (vi)     Poorly defining, and grossly under-funding the revision of the legal framework for the
        core accountability institutions was a follow-up to IDA's Financial and Legal Management
        Upgrading Project (FILMUP) project, and should have drawn upon the lessons learnt from that
        project, but seems not to have. This particular activity would have required the review of
        potentially scores of pieces of legislation by a government which the project design itself described
        as requiring extensive capacity building in legal drafting and legislative development ­ the core
        skills required to effectively implement the activity. The failure to fully consider the lessons from
        FILMUP and the scope and complexity of the activity, led to it not being implemented and the
        activity objective not being met.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The development objective, and is component parts for Phase 1 according to the DCA was to assist the
Borrower in:

·       the design and implementation of critical system-wide reforms required in the public sector,
including: (i) the reduction of public service staffing; (ii) reform of pay; (iii) introduction of more effective



                                                      - 5 -

human resources management; and (iv) improvement of resource allocation and financial management
systems of the public service; and (v) supporting progress made under ongoing programs of the Borrower
to restructure, decentralize, and improve accountability and transparency in the public service.

In general, the performance indicators established at appraisal were well monitored, so data reliability on
outcomes is moderate to high.

Achievement and outputs in each of these targeted areas is detailed below:

(i)      The reduction of public service staffing is rated as moderately satisfactory. The PSCAP Phase 1
target was to reduce headcounts from 136,000 in 2000, to 112,000 by 2003. In June 2005, total public
service headcount, excluding the uniformed defense forces, was approximately 112,259, a reduction of 17.5
percent from the target baseline and only 2 percent short of the target. In accordance with the Letter of
Sector Policy, studies on the optimal size of the civil service were commissioned as a major step in
developing a rightsizing policy; in 1999-2000 by KPMG followed by a similar study in 2002. The latter
recommended that: "With the vast majority of public servants being employee in the priority areas (75% being
engaged in education, teaching, and the protective services), there is little scope for financing pay reform from
downsizing of the public service alone.....A major constraint on salary enhancement in the Zambia public service
is the low level of GDP and its slow rate of real growth, which restricts the size resource envelop." Valentine
(2002), p.43 This supported the government's action to hold the line on public service numbers, although it
did not generate resources to fund increased public service remuneration, a major objective of rightsizing.
Rather, public service salary increases came from increased general budget allocations outside the limits
agreed to in the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.

(ii)     Pay reforms are rated as moderately unsatisfactory. The Medium Term Pay Reform Strategy
(MTPRS) was developed and partially introduced. Under the MTPRS, the rural hardship, uniform upkeep,
tools, extra duty and commuted overtime allowances and Teachers Special Education Allowance (which
contributed up to 30% of total pay for some teachers) were abolished, 14 allowances for police and prisons
staff were rolled into base salary and the funeral grant scheme and medical insurance schemes were
converted to contributory schemes. At close of project, negotiations with public service unions had
commenced on the abolition of one of the highest cost allowance - Housing Allowance ­ and 14 of the 24
allowances recommended for abolition in the pay reform report Valentine (2002), p. 38 had not been
abolished or included in base salaries, so considerable work still remains in this area. This rating differs
from a similar rating in the most recent assessment of the second tranche milestones for the Bank's
Economic Management and Growth Credit (EMGC), which shows that the milestone related to integration
of allowances into payroll as being met; i.e was rated as `Satisfactory'. However, this was based on
performance at December 2004 and on a criterion different to that of PSCAP. The EMGC performance
indicator was: "Consolidated of most allowances into base salary and reduction the overall salary to
allowance ratio." The PSCAP performance indicator was: `All allowances are monetarized'.
The ratings can therefore be expected to differ.

(iii)    Introduction of more effective human resources management is rated as moderately
satisfactory. A major achievement was the introduction of the Payroll Management and Establishment
Control (PMEC) system, funded and supervised by DFID. By project closure all national ministry payrolls
to district level, had been cleaned and transferred to PMEC. However, although Permanent Secretaries
were placed on contract and an Annual Performance Appraisal System (APAS) designed, performance
contracting for senior officials was not introduced nor APAS made functional.

(iv)     Improvement of resource allocation and financial management systems of the public service is



                                                        - 6 -

rated as moderately satisfactory. The MTEF was introduced in association with Activity Based Budgeting
(ABB). While linkages between ministry strategic plans and the MTEF planning cycle are still weak in
some portfolios, in others they are well established with indications that capacity in policy, program and
budget planning integration is developing. Capacity building, capital works and resource provision in OAG
resulted in the auditing of government financial statements meeting legislative requirements and in the
strengthening of OAG provincial office operations, while similar inputs to ZNTB resulted in the growth of
certified Procurement Supplies Units (PSUs) in ministries and stronger regulatory capacity in ZNTB.
However, a deficit was that the IFMIS subcomponent was not introduced, although the design study for
IFMIS was completed. Instead, GRZ upgraded its Financial Management System (FMS) and included a
commitment control capability in it to enhance budget execution and control in all ministries down to
provincial level.

(v)      Supporting progress to restructure, decentralize, and improve accountability and
transparency in the public service, was rated as unsatisfactory. The government undertook an extensive
program of restructuring of ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), but as no evaluation was
undertaken of how this impacted on service delivery capacity, efficiency or effectiveness it cannot be
assessed. Although part of the restructuring exercise was aimed at agentization or privatization of non-core
government functions, agentization, privatization and private sector economic participation were not
significantly enhanced. The project's decentralization activities were partly implemented with the
development of a decentralization policy and draft Decentralization Implementation Plan, which were
funded from Component 1 (Policy and Public Service Management) rather than Component 4
(Decentralization). Revisions of the Public Finance Act and the Audit Act, which would have
complemented other accountability reforms, were not undertaken. Interventions designed to provide greater
public participation in the policy process and to survey citizens on service delivery quality were also not
initiated. Of the subcomponents that would enhance accountability and transparency, those forming part of
the public finance system reforms (e.g. MTEF and greater parliamentary scrutiny of the budget process)
enhanced accountability and transparency, as did the interventions that enhanced the efficiency and
effectiveness of the justice and legal systems.

In summary, while achievements were made in developing and partially implementing the MTPRS,
introducing the MTEF and ABB, enhancing the government's accounting and commitment control system
through FMS, implementing PMEC, substantially increasing the capacity of the OAG, increasing the
effectiveness and efficiency of the judicial and legal systems, major deficits also existed at project closure.
These were failure to: (i) implement the IFMIS subcomponent; (ii) to implement several decentralization
activities; (iii) restructure MDAs so as to spin off non-core functions through agentization and privatization
so as to promote greater private sector participation in the economy; and, (iv) to implement a broader range
of strategies and mechanisms to increase accountability and transparency in the public service. Design
faults which undermined the performance of other subcomponents were identified above in terms of quality
at entry. It should be noted that although the failure to implement the IFMIS was a project deficit, the
implementation of the enhanced FMS was sufficient to result in the Bank and the IMF waiving the IFMIS
conditionality for Zambia to reach the HIPC completion point in 2005.

4.1.1APL Triggers (Satisfactory)
Because PSCAP was the first phase of an APL, in addition to the objectives linked to the DO, triggers were
required to be met before Phase Two of the APL could be activated. The triggers specified for each stage of
the APL were appropriate and well sequenced to reflect the achievement of the intermediate objectives for
each stage. However, the triggers for Phase 1 when translated into key performance indicators (KPIs) for
each component and subcomponent in that phase, resulted in the objectives and KPIs underlying the DO
being more demanding than the triggers. Seven triggers were specified for triggering Phase Two. All


                                                      - 7 -

triggers were met for Phase One. Assessments of project performance against each trigger, are detailed in
Annex 8, Table 2.

Considering the DO outcomes and the APL triggers, the ICR rates the overall achievement of the project
objective as satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs by component are discussed below. A summary of project expenditures by component and by
expenditure category is provided in Annex 8, Table 3

Component 1. Rightsizing and Pay Reform: (ModeratelyUnsatisfactory)

In terms of pay reform, several achievements were made by the project: salaries were decompressed,
salaries for key technical and professional staff were increased, allowances were rationalized although there
continues to be further room for reform in this area, grades were reduced from 78 to 6 and salaries
decompressed from 1:8.1 to 1:13. Contracts for Permanent Secretaries were introduced in association with
the design and introduction of APAS although contracts were not performance based. The PMEC system
was implemented and all ministry payrolls and the legacy payroll (retrenchees who had not been paid
retrenchment benefits and so are still on the payroll) transferred to PMEC. However, social safety net
programs were not strengthened, principally because of a lack of funding to ensure their actuarial viability
and legal and constitutional constraints on reform of the pension schemes. This particular objective was
very ambitious given the financial status of the public service pension funds and their liabilities, and the
need for constitutional amendments while the Constitutional Review Commission was still in session.

The rightsizing targets set for this component were met within 2 percent of the target. An amendment of the
original DCA to provide US$10 million for retrenchments was approved in March 2003. Of these funds
US$6.8 million were used to retrench 1288 positions, including some at the local government level in
Livingstone City Council, as well as in ministries. This fell well short of the 2,800 positions initially
identified for retrenchment payments under the amended PSCAP DCA. The PSCAP Phase 1 target was to
reduce headcounts from 136,000 in 2000, to 112,000 by 2003. In June 2005, total public service
headcount, excluding the uniformed defense forces, was approximately 112,259, including the legacy
payroll of those retrenchees still being paid for whom severance package funding was unavailable; a
reduction of 17.5 percent from the target baseline and only 2 percent short of the target. Therefore, the
funds allocated for retrenchment under the project, plus GRZ funded retrenchment initiatives, almost met
the 2003 target by 2005. A backlog of unfunded retrenchment payments still exists.

In terms of divestment of non-core functions, four organizations were spun off as agencies as previously
mentioned, but this program was limited because of the lack of Cabinet approval to spin off additional
public service entities, based on a post-implementation change in government policy

Although this component achieved only four of its seven objectives, those achieved, such as PMEC and pay
reforms were considerable; the PMEC implementation being a particularly significant achievement.
Although the rightsizing target was not met, very significant progress was made. The failure to achieve the
social safety net reforms was derived from the overly ambitious nature of this objective and the need for it
to be facilitated by a constitutional amendment. It would warrant a project of its own given the broad
reform demands of the public service safety net system. Therefore the ICR rates its achievement as
moderately unsatisfactory.

Component 2. Policy and Public Service Management: (Moderately Satisfactory)



                                                     - 8 -

A large part of this component was the Performance Improvement Fund (PIF) aimed at providing a flexible
funding instrument, initially for seven targeted ministries to improve priority services through a "quick
wins" approach. PIF funding was supposed to be linked to performance improvement plans developed by
the ministries to identify key capacity building implementations that could be quickly implemented.
However, in the early stages of the project, PIF funds were made widely available to all restructured
ministries, regardless of whether they had a direct public service delivery orientation or not. Following an
independent review of the PIF, initiated by the PICU, the fund was refocused on service delivery issues. In
total, 38 projects were funded under the PIF of which 15 (39 percent) were assessed by the PICU as having
had an observable impact on service delivery. This would seem to indicate a disconnect between the service
delivery and strategic planning basis for PIF funded projects and the projects actually funded. PIF did not
meet its objective, as detailed in the DCA, of creating " a gender-sensitive and result-oriented public
service", but this was an overly ambitious goal that could have been more narrowly defined in terms of
trialing approaches to improved service delivery and more focused support to gender issues. However, PIF
did fund the establishment of an online Gender Information Resource website that also included content on
gender and HIV/AIDS.

Developing a results orientation in the public service was principally supported by the introduction of the
MTEF rather than through successful human resource interventions under this component. The
introduction of the APAS seems to have not linked individual and work unit performance to policy or
program outputs and its impact had not been empirically assessed at project closure. However, a training
program in strategic management in which 100 managers participated was implemented although its impact
and sustainability seems questionable. The subcomponent on assessing the impact of HIV/AIDS on the
public service was not undertaken due to a lack of funding. Increasing transparency, accountability and
public participation in the policy process was not achieved because of lack of support possibly due to the
direct impact it would have on the political process.

Several achievements were made in relation to policy management reforms. The linkages between the
policy-making and budget processes were strengthened by adoption of a policy that no Cabinet decision is
made without clearance from the Ministry of Finance and National Planning regarding its funding
implications and legal opinion is now provided by the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) on all Cabinet memoranda
that require it. The strengthening of policy formulation, monitoring and evaluation was an ambitious goal
that resulted in only one discernible output; the implementation of a computerized Cabinet documentation
system. Enhancing understanding, throughout the public service of the policy process was pursued through
the development, dissemination and training of politicians and senior public servants in the use of new
guidelines for writing sectoral policies and the Cabinet Handbook. However, the institutionalization of
training in these resources has not been achieved.

This component had clear achievements in strategic management training, policy management reforms,
developing linkages between the policy-making and budget processes and enhancing the capacity for legal
advice in the policy-making process. However, it failed to adequately focus the PIF on service delivery and
gender issues, to introduce performance based contracts using the APAS performance assessment system,
to assess the impact of HIV/AIDS on the public service or to increase transparency, accountability and
public participation in the policy process. Given the relative balance between the achievements in meeting
policy and management objectives and the under-performance in the PIF, HIV, gender and performance
contracting objectives, the ICR rates achievement of this component as moderately satisfactory.

Component 3. Financial Management, Accountability and Transparency: (Moderately Satisfactory)




                                                     - 9 -

Under this component the MTFF (the GRZ term used for MTEF) was introduced in all ministries from
2004 for the period 2004-2006. However, further development of the MTEF is required before the full
budget preparation, execution and reporting cycle are MTEF compliant. Although the DCA specified that a
"modern and improved accounting system" be adopted under this component, the PAD had specified that
an IFMIS system be implemented in association with the MTFF. However, neither the PAD not the DCA
specified introduction of Activity Based Budgeting, which GRZ introduced in conjunction with the MTEF.
The project failed to implement an IFMIS system, although specification and procurement were attempted
and site preparations and networking of Government ministries/departments were undertaken. The failure
of government to contract an experienced IFMIS consultant early in project implementation to advise on
this difficult subcomponent, contributed significantly to its failure. However, using its own resources
outside PSCAP, the government upgraded an existing computer based accounting system, the Financial
Management System (FMS) which it rolled out to provincial level, which was a considerable achievement.

The FMS, which is still being refined, modernized government accounting and introduced greater control
over expenditure, especially through the implementation of a commitment control system. This has resulted
in accurate and on-time production of monthly expenditure returns leading to greater expenditure
predictability and reduced government borrowings on the domestic public debt market. Although revisions
to the Financial Management, Audit and Accountants' Acts were not achieved, internal controls were
further strengthened by the introduction of new accounting and auditing standards independent of the
legislation. These activities resulted in strengthening of the treasury management system, but fell short of
the objective because the IFMIS was not implemented and the legal framework for public finance (revision
of the Audit Act and the Public Finance Act) was not strengthened. However, in association with treasury
management, the Internal Audit Department piloted a Computer Assisted Audit Techniques Software
(CAATS) system. The funds originally earmarked for IFMIS under PSCAP were re-allocated because
during the final stage of the project, government had already agreed with donors that IFMIS would be
included in the forthcoming Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability (PEMFA)
SWAp, with indicative funding of $72 million under the proposed PEMFA funding pool. In response to a
GRZ request, the Bank agreed therefore to the reallocation of these funds to other subcomponents or to
provide additional support to activities funded under the PIF.

Initiatives to strengthen the independence of the OAG required constitutional amendments and were
inappropriate for inclusion in the design; this objective was not met. However, interventions to improve the
structure and operational capacity of OAG were generally successful. Capacity building activities in OAG
resulted in 190 staff being trained in auditing skills, production of annual audit reports conforming with
legislative requirements from 2002, improvements in the quality and timeliness of audit reports, forensic
audits being undertaken and resulting in disciplinary action being taken against some officers. OAG
infrastructure was significantly enhanced under the project: the headquarters and four provincial offices
were re-equipped and refurbished, a training centre was established and equipment and vehicles provided so
that the OAG could become operational in all provinces. The restructuring of OAG was approved by
Cabinet and implementation started in 2004.

As with OAG, interventions to build the capacity and effectiveness of the ZNTB were also successful. The
provision of training programs, equipment and vehicles to ZNTB, the development of training and
standards manuals and the capacity building of Procurement Supplies Units (PSUs) progressed the
transition of ZNTB from a procurement management body to a procurement policy, standards and
oversight body, although the organization is still in transition. At project end a total of 41 PSUs were
established and certified (16 additional procurement units were established by June 2005 against a target of
10 by June 2003) and 298 PSU staff were trained. Linkages between ZNTB and PSUs were further
strengthened by implementation of a network to facilitate online data exchange of between ZNTB and


                                                     - 10 -

PSUs in eight ministries and the Central Board of Health.

Capacity building interventions for the accounting profession through the Zambian Institute of Chartered
Accountants (ZICA) included: adoption of new accounting and auditing standards, implementation of a
computerised management information system for ZICA, adoption of a new Code of Conduct and Ethics,
development of a revised curriculum for accounting programs, commencing the development of local
textbooks and localization professional examinations. Although these activities were successfully
implemented they were limited to ZICA and did not involve other professional accounting associations or
training institutions as specified in the DCA. Capacity building for the Parliamentary Accounts Committee
seems to have been successful, but this achievement may be compounded by a number of activities
undertaken by the parliament itself and by the multi-donor Parliamentary Reform Project Stage II.

Almost all the objectives in this component were fully met or partially met. Although the most significant
subcomponent, an IFMIS, was not implemented, it was not specified in the DCA or the DCA amendments
made in March 2003 and failure to implement was substantially offset by the FMS upgrade. The inclusion
of an objective that required a constitutional amendment - making the OAG a body independent of the
Executive - while a valid governance objective, was inappropriate for inclusion in the design unless there
was an unequivocal government commitment to do so as demonstrated through legislation or some
equivalent measure. It is only in respect of these two issues that this component failed to perform. The ICR
therefore rates the achievement of this component as moderately satisfactory.

Component 4. Judicial and Legal: (Moderately Satisfactory)

Judicial, court-based and Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) legal services were improved under the
project. A total of 44 judges, 126 Magistrates, 74 administrative staff and 185 court support staff were
trained. This resulted in more accurate court records management, a reduction in complaints against
employees in the judiciary and the filling of 60 vacant Clerk of Court positions from those trained. The
objective of rehabilitating three courthouses was exceeded, with eight courthouses in four provinces being
rehabilitated. Additionally, court furniture, benches and office equipment were also provided, and court
circuiting was improved through the provision of eight motor vehicles resulting in an increased number of
cases being heard. In terms of operational capacity building, a new case management information system
was developed and piloted, an inspectorate unit to monitor revenue collection and operations in MOLA was
established, leading to an increase in revenue collection. Additionally, 12 lawyers, 25 paralegals and 35
administrative staff in MOLA, MHA, Judiciary, ACC and HRC were trained in legal drafting. This
contributed to an enhanced capacity for legislative drafting and interpretation of Acts and statutory
instruments. Although training activities, provision of furniture, equipment and motor vehicles as well as
support for the re-engineering of work processes were provided to the Commission of Investigation, these
inputs had almost no impact on the Commission's performance; maladministration case throughput only
increased from 52.2% to 52.7%. The other objective which was not achieved in this component was, again,
a very ambitious target; revision of legislation impacting on accountability and transparency. This was
supposed to be a continuation of an activity started under the Bank's FILMUP project. However it was
inadequately funded for the scope of the exercise and was not attempted. Because of the consistent
achievement of objectives with two exceptions ­ legislation revision and lack of impact on CFI operations -
within this component, he ICR rates achievement of this component as moderately satisfactory.

Component 5. Decentralization: (Unsatisfactory)

None of the subcomponent specified in the DCA were achieved through PSCAP intervention. The funding



                                                    - 11 -

provided for PSCAP support to this subcomponent was inadequate for the activities specified in the DCA.
The finalization of the development of the government's draft National Decentralization Policy and the
draft Decentralization Implementation Plan were funded from Component 1 rather than this component.
There was obviously a significant disconnect about the inclusion of this component in the project and
GRZ's other decentralization initiatives (including some with other donors), such that it is questionable
whether this component should have formed part of the project. The component was also so poorly funded
that it could not have successfully completed any of the activities associated with it. Because of the lack of
performance, the ICR rates achievement of this component as unsatisfactory.

Component 6. Project Management: (Satisfactory)

The objective of this component was to effectively manage the implementation of the project in order to
meet the development objective through teh establishment and operation of a Project Implementation and
Coordination Unit (PICU) in the Management Development Division of the Cabinet Office. The specific
activities to be undertaken by teh PICU were: (i) strengthen PICU's capacity to monitor implementation
and achievement of performance indicators; (ii) collection and analysis of component information and other
reform program information; (iii) establishment of performance baseline data for components; (iii)
provision of information on the project; (iv) dissemination of project results to stakeholders; and (v)
dissemination of stakeholder comments to implementing agencies.

The PICU was staffed by competent personnel who adequately implemented its key functions and provided
the deliverables required by the logframe. The PICU implemented an effective monitoring and evaluation
program, provided policy and information support to implementing agencies and donors, maintained good
working relationships with IDA and DFID. However, preparation at effectiveness was less than it should
have been and the procurement function within the PICU was not fully staffed until 2003 which caused
some delays in procurement during the first stage of teh project. The PICU also focussed on procurement of
goods and services for teh first 18 months of teh project rather than balancing this with an equal focus on
the major reform initiatives. The Management Committee met irregularly, thus placing most management
responsibility on the Permanent Secretary, MDD.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
(Moderate)

PSCAP made a significant contribution to strengthening the public expenditure management framework
and imposing stronger fiscal discipline in MDAs through the implementation of an MTEF, ABB, stronger
internal fiscal standards and controls, upgrading of the FMS computerised accounting system to include
commitment controls, implementation of the PMEC system, significant devolution and capacity building in
public procurement and the strengthening of the external audit function. These interventions have
contributed significantly to the ability of GRZ to manage its fiscal resources and develop and execute
realistic and disciplined budgets. This has been supported by some reduction in public service headcounts,
adoption and partial implementation of the MTPRS as a foundation for pay reforms and a complementary
strategy to the MTEF, an increased capacity in planning, a more effective legal advising function and
judicial service and some progress in the modernization of national accounting standards and training.



                                                   - 12 -

Despite the failure to implement most of the decentralization component and some subcomponents, these
are significant institutional development impacts which are being built upon in the forthcoming PEMFA
and Public Sector Management (PSM) SWAps in which the Bank is participating.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of implementing agencies included: (i) amendments required to the constitution
to implement the objective of making the OAG independent of the executive; (ii) improving public
participation in the policy process due to a possible lack of political support for this activity; and (iii) the
further consolidation of allowances into base salary was limited by the need to allow more time to manage
the complexity of some allowances and resistance from public sector unions to changes that could be
perceived as reducing net salaries.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Slow implementation in the first two years of the substantive public sector reforms that were at the heart of
the project resulted from a number of factors: (i) lack of capacity in implementing agencies to implement
consultancy recommendations ­ by Mid-Term Review only one of the eight completed consultancies was
being implemented; (ii) delays in obtaining decisions from the ZNTB; (iii) delays in receiving feedback on
"no objections" from the Bank; (iv) lack of policy and logistical support from Government on IFMIS and
MTEF implementations; (v) an initial strong focus on high levels of procurement of equipment, furniture,
vehicles and minor works which led to a significant amount of PICU resources being devoted to
procurement, even though staffing levels were too low, particularly in finance and procurement; and, (vi)
the slow release of counterpart funds which was rectified following the mid-term review, but contributed to
project extensions.

Slow implementation due to lack of policy support was compounded by the Steering Committee meeting
infrequently and much of the responsibility for policy support subsequently falling to the chairperson of the
committee, Deputy Secretary to Cabinet (Finance and Economic Development), rather than being shared by
the chief executives (including Permanent Secretaries) of the implementing agencies which comprised the
committee. Although the Technical Committee, comprising all subcomponent managers, met more
regularly, it and its members did not have the authority to effectively act on the policy and resource issues
that were delaying implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project was characterized by a large number of implementing agencies, all of which had varying
capacities, resources and constraints. The major implementing agencies were: Cabinet Office Management
Development Division and Public Service Management Division Directorate for Public Service Capacity
Building, MOFED, Accountant-General's Department (AGD), MOLA, OAG, ZNTB, NIPA, ZICA, the
judiciary and the Public Accounts Committee of the parliament. The procurement capacity of several
implementing agencies was insufficient for the first three years of the project and adversely effected the
implementation of the most difficult subcomponents such as IFMIS on the part of the AGD, ZNTB and
MOFED. Most implementing agencies also lacked the capacity to effectively supervise consultants thus
slowing progress on their subcomponents, and in some cases, effecting the quality of work undertaken by
those consultants.

Delays in the approval of documents at the Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB), extended procurement
consultations between the Task Team Leaders (TTLs) and the PICU resulted in delays by the Bank in
issuing "no objections" causing delays in the commencement or implementation of some subcomponents. In
those MDAs without certified PSUs, contract documents for projects pass through the ZNTB for scrutiny


                                                     - 13 -

and approval. With a limited number of personnel at ZNTB, and initially a limited number of certified
PSUs, processing delays were common until at least 2003 despite the procurement reforms implemented.

The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the project was well managed with baselines and data
acquired at appraisal, some derived from the preceding FILMUP project. The quality of M&E activity by
the PICU grew with the project. For example, prior to the Mid-Term Review, the PICU provided its own
analytical paper on progress to date and suggested project changes. On project completion, in addition to its
own internal M&E activity, it contracted the Department of Political and Administrative Studies at the
University of Zambia to conduct an impact assessment of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
During the design of PSCAP it was envisaged that various donors would provide support in the
implementation of the project. However, in effect the first phase of PSCAP was principally funded by IDA.
The United Kingdom, through the Department for International Development (DFID), provided support to
the PMEC subcomponent.

At appraisal, the total program cost was estimated at US$45 million with IDA contributing US$28 million,
the Borrower contributing US$1 million, and US$16 million contributed by other donors, principally by
DFID. By project closing, the completion cost for the program was US$39.365, with the IDA contribution
amounting to US$28.435 million, 72.2 percent; the Borrower contributing US$1 million and other donors
US$10.2 million. The DCA was extended twice, and credit proceeds reallocated amongst different
categories. Details of the reallocations is provided in Annex 8, Table 4.

The reasons for reallocation were: (i) following implementation, the anticipated funding from NORAD, the
European Union (EU) and the Netherlands to support the Financial Management, Transparency and
Accountability component was not provided, so funds were reallocated to ensure adequate funding from
IDA resources to this component; (ii) when agreement was reached between the Association and GRZ on
the provision of US$10 million for retrenchment payments in March 2003, funds were again reallocated;
and (iii) funds were reallocated for the third and final time when those unexpended funds allocated to
retrenchments and IFMIS were reallocated to the PIF and other subcomponents.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
(Likely)

PSCAP was a very ambitious project that addressed a large number of civil service and public finance
reform issues. Despite its slow start, following the Mid-Term Review it implemented a large number of
significant reforms, although failing to deliver on several others. It was a project that had good alignment
with GRZ's public sector reform framework, the PSRP. Its likelihood of sustainability is demonstrated by
the two follow-up SWAps (PEMFA and PSM) and the stand-alone Bank funded retrenchment activity
associated with the PSM SWAp being designed to build on the achievements of PSCAP and to learn from
its failures. Of 16 technical subcomponents included in the PEMFA and PSM SWAps, 13 build directly on
their PSCAP predecessors. The rating is based on the following factors: (i) the demonstrated commitment
of both GRZ and 12 donors (including IDA) to these two SWAps; (ii) the proactive approach taken by
government which seems to demonstrate a greater level of ownership than seemed apparent in 1999; (iii)
the adoption of a programmatic rather than a project approach to the reform program; (iv) the joint design
and appraisal of the two programs among donors and government which ensured greater design scrutiny;
and (v) the greater supervision capacity provided by the SWAp framework.



                                                     - 14 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This ICR is for the first phase of an APL. The follow-up of the phase 1 is covered through the second
phase of the APL, which will be discussed beginning of January 2006. No transition arrangements are thus
necessary.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
(Moderately Satisfactory)

During identification, the task team ensured that development objectives and project scope were consistent
with the Government's PSRP priorities and IDA's assistance strategy. Bank staff appraised the project
thoroughly and in close coordination with the Borrower, but failed to conduct an adequate analysis of the
progress made by GRZ on its PSRP, on the political context of the project, on the constitutional
requirements for some activities, on the scope of the legal review activity and on GRZ policies which would
impact on project subcomponents such as decentralization and gender policy initiatives. With regard to
other donors, although NORAD and DFID were consulted on complementary donor projects, the impact of
activities in the USAID led multi-donor Parliamentary Reform Project Stage II was not obviously
considered in the design. The project objectives were clear and specific, drew upon previous experience
with the IDA FILMUP project, but were in some aspects overly ambitious and did not fully take account of
lessons learnt from FILMUP. This was not adjusted following the mid-term review, which led to only one
substantive change ­ providing a US$10 million reallocation of funds for retrenchments. The mid-term
review should have seriously considered restructuring the project as discussed below. All the components of
the project supported the project objectives, although the decentralization component was not funded and
implemented. A good monitoring and evaluation system was put in place to measure the impact of project
interventions, using baseline data and appropriate M&E methodologies, including an independent
evaluation of project impact.

7.2 Supervision:
(Moderately Unsatisfactory)

Supervision was regular, focused and inclusive with good relationships established with the PICU and
implementing agencies. The Bank's early supervision missions could have done more to increase the pace
at which the substantive reform issues were implemented and to identify those subcomponents that either
were not being implemented or were slow. Earlier intervention to resolve the issue of poor counterpart
funding disbursements would have helped implementation progress. Equally, action to address the almost
constant disbursement lag (running at about 50 percent for much of the project) should have been
proactively addressed with government. Similarly, restructuring the project following the mid-term review
by deleting the decentralization subcomponent, all activities that were not funded, all activities that
conflicted or overlapped with GRZ policy implementation (e.g. gender policy), and revision of the
performance indicators to be more realistic (e.g. removing the indicator that expected IFMIS
implementation one month after system design was completed and transferring IFMIS implementation to
Phase 2 of the APL) should have been considered. TTLs consulted regularly with counterparts to resolve
issues, but underlying basic design and implementation problems were not fully addressed, thus resulting in
performance ratings in Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports that were overly positive.
Frequent changes of Bank team leaders (four during the project duration) resulted in some loss of
continuity in project supervision and knowledge.




                                                    - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
(Moderately Unsatisfactory)

Based on a greater weighting being placed by the ICR on supervision, given the five year life of the project,
overall Bank performance was assessed as moderately unsatisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
(Moderately Unsatisfactory)

Government performance during the project preparation is assessed as moderately unsatisfactory, as
although its design collaboration with the Bank was comprehensive and it was strongly engaged in project
identification and preparation, it: (i) failed to transfer the lessons from the failure of the GRZ Public
Service Reform Program from 1993-1999 to the project design; (ii) to take cognizance in the design of the
issues underlying reform of the public service pension systems; (iii) to inform the design of the legal issues
requiring constitutional amendments to change the status of the OAG and restructuring of the public
service pension schemes; and, (iv) did not insist on adequate funding being provided to the privatization,
private sector participation subcomponents and the decentralization component. The detailed reasons for
this rating are outlined above in Quality at Entry.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
(Moderately Satisfactory)

Despite the problems at appraisal with project design, initial slow implementation and the failure to
implement most of the decentralization component, the government implemented a large number of key civil
service, public expenditure management and judicial system reforms, the impact of which should not be
underestimated because they did not encompass the total objectives of what was an overly ambitious
design.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
(Moderately Satisfactory)

The performance of the implementing agencies is rated moderately satisfactory, although performance
among them varied, thus requiring the development of a rating that attempts to reflect the average of this
variability. In some cases, implementing agency performance was highly satisfactory as in OAG,
satisfactory as in MOLA, moderately unsatisfactory with regard to training institution capacity building
and unsatisfactory in respect of the decentralization component. Across most implementing agencies project
activities were implemented more slowly than originally planned. Some implementing agencies also failed
to effectively supervise consultants and contractors resulting in lower performance than expected from the
consultancies undertaken. However, weaknesses within the PICU in project management, procurement and
financial management at the beginning of the project were overcome after the recruitment of additional staff
in August 2002 and 2003, although the varying lack of capacity in these areas in many implementing
MDAs continued to project completion.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
(Moderately Satisfactory)

Based on the analyses above, Borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.




                                                    - 16 -

8. Lessons Learned

Project design should be focused and not overly ambitious. PSCAP encompassed civil service, public
finance, parliamentary, judicial and legal and decentralization reforms. The inclusion of all of these types of
reform in a single project funded and supervised by a single donor (except for one subcomponent) was
overly ambitious and assumed a capacity in the Borrower that did not exist.

A realistic assessment of the Borrower's implementation capacity can result in an implementation
schedule grounded on Borrower capacity, a more realistic design and better risk management. An
assessment of the implementation capacity of the Borrower would allow for a better design of the initial
phase of project implementation and a realistic schedule. It would allow for provision of start-up support
before project effectiveness or at the very early stages of project implementation.

The Mid Term Review process should be used as an opportunity to question whether a project
requires restructuring. The MTR should be a very realistic assessment of progress, problems, capacity
and willingness to implement the original project design. It should take account of changes in government
policy, priorities and capacities and make hard decisions about the relevance of continuing with the
original design or the need to restructure to ensure the continuing alignment of the project with government
reform goals.

Project funding should mirror project components. Components or subcomponents which are unfunded
or grossly under-funded should not be included in a project, or the project should be restructured so these
components are removed and the project design accordingly amended.

Political and policy analyses of the project context contributes to project success. Political and policy
analyses of the implementation context would have indicated that PSCAP was building on a history of
failure to implement meaningful reforms in its several foci areas, that political will to undertake substantive
reforms remained weak, that government could not guarantee the passage of constitutional amendments as
required by some subcomponents and that more rapid success was more probable in one or more smaller,
more focused projects.

The design of complex interventions such as IFMIS should take account of government capacity to
conceptualize, design, implement and manage such interventions. Project preparation needs to include
appropriate diagnostics to better inform capacity building interventions which need to be broader than a
focus on information technology issues and sequenced to account for the level of capacity indicated by
these diagnostics.

Early proactive interventions in response to slow implementation by the Bank and Borrower may
assist in identifying design and implementation problems that were not identified in the appraisal and
approval processes and facilitate putting solutions in place up-front rather than through project extensions
or redesigns.

An inclusive, facilitative supervision style can overcome frequent changes of TTL: Although the
project was characterized by frequent changes of TTLs, all TTLs maintained good relationships with the
implementing agency and PICU, had a facilitative rather than contract management approach and managed
implementation problems through an inclusive and consultative approach.

9. Partner Comments




                                                     - 17 -

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                     ZAMBIA ­ CABINET OFFICE
                               EVALUATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                             (IDA 3329 ZA)

                        PUBLIC SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


The Government's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is available in IRIS. It should be noted that
in Government's view, the Public Service Capacity Building Project (PSCAP) performed satisfactorily.
This is evidenced by the fact that implementation of the project activities did significantly pursue and
realized the project development objective and most of the project outputs. Further, all the project triggers
and milestones were significantly met. It is also Government's considered view that most of the project
interventions shall be sustained since a number of them have began to be institutionalized.

A few outputs were however not pursued due to a number of reasons such as:
        (a)      lack of budgetary provision. This was the case on the output relating to enhancing private
                 sector participation;
        (b)      deferring the implementation in anticipation of other discreet and relevant support
                 programmes. This was the case with regard to the output on decentralization; and
        (c)      change in Government policy. In one case Government changed its policy and this led to
                 the non-implementation of activities pertaining to the output on contracting out non-core
                 functions.

For the outputs that were not pursued, some restructuring of the project should have been effected during
the Mid Term Review (MTR). However, this was not done as both the Borrower and the Bank over looked
the need to do so.

For detailed Partner Comments, see Government's ICR in IRIS.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The only co-financer for the project was DFID, which funded and supervised the PMEC activity.
With respect to this, DFID has commented that it should be noted that certain payrolls were, and
continue to be, excluded from PMEC (uniformed defense payrolls, some parts of Office of the
President among others), but agrees with the ICR finding that implementation of PMEC was a
significant achievement and should be rated as satisfactory.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A



10. Additional Information

Background to PSCAP: Public Sector Reforms in Zambia

1. Overview

In the early 1990s, GRZ began a political and socio-economic reform process, which entailed
democratizing the political system and liberalizing the economy. The political reforms entailed a return to


                                                    - 18 -

multi-party politics after two decades of a one party system of Government. The political reforms gave
special impetus to public demand for good governance, transparency and accountability in the conduct and
management of public affairs. Economic reforms focused on the privatization of parastatal entities and the
redefinition of the role of the public service from that of controlling the overall economy to that of
providing a conducive environment for a market based and private sector driven economy.

For the reforms to have a positive impact on the well being of the citizens, the public service needed
significant institutional and human capacity building. To this effect, the Government developed and
embarked on implementing the Public Service Reform Programme (PSRP) in 1993 as a systematic
long-term programme to restructure the public service. The overall goal of the PSRP is "To improve the
quality, delivery, and efficiency and cost effectiveness of public services to the people of Zambia".

Co-operating partners supported government in the implementation of the reforms through a number of
interventions, among them: the Agricultural Sector Investment Programme (ASIP), the National Capacity
Building Programme for Good Governance (NCBPGG), the Health Sector Reform Programme, the Basic
Education Sub-Sector Investment Programme (BESSIP), FILMUP, the Road Sector Investment
Programme (ROADSIP) and most recently the Public Sector Capacity Building Project (PSCAP).

The PSCAP was designed as a long-term (13 years) comprehensive Government strategy to be
implemented in three phases. The first phase, focused on the following outputs: - (i) rightsizing and pay
reform of the public service in place; (ii) improved policy and public service management; (iii) improved
financial management, accountability and transparency; (iv) improved capacity of the judicial and legal
systems; and (v) decentralization and participatory governance in place. To ensure effective and
co-coordinated implementation of PSCAP and other complimentary reform programmes and projects in
MDAs, it was decided that Cabinet Office be the central co-ordinating institution.

2. Policy Context for Reforms

Since 2002, four major policy frameworks, which guide all GRZ developmental and reform efforts, have
been developed and adopted. These are the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) the Transitional
National Development Plan (TNDP), the National Decentralization Policy (NDP) and the National Aid
Policy and Strategy (NAP). The TNDP is currently being replaced by the Fifth National Development Plan
which is well advanced and is expected to be adopted by government in early 2006.

         2.1 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper

The PRSP was developed as the medium term overall policy framework for national planning and
development, and interventions for poverty reduction for the period 2002-2004. The framework rolls over
every three years. The next iteration of the PRSP is being developed in conjunction with the new Fifth
National Development Plan 2006-2011.

The basic strategy for poverty reduction is rapid economic growth and employment creation. This entails
improvements in national resources management, a conducive macroeconomic framework; sectoral
performance especially in key sectors such as agriculture, tourism, health and education; infrastructure
developments, governance and public service delivery capacity. The PRSP stresses the importance of
public sector management and leadership capacity in the management of PRSP programmes and in creating
a conducive environment for other actors (private sector, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs),
Community-Based Organisations (CBOs), churches and beneficiaries). Special focus is on key economic
and social sector ministries to enable them become more effective in reducing poverty.


                                                     - 19 -

The PRSP recognizes the need to strengthen linkages between policy and budgets and to put in place
measures to improve the impact of public spending on economic development, growth and poverty
reduction.

With regard to the general governance programmes, priority focus of the PRSP is on the following three
principle areas: (i) regular and wider consultations between Government and the citizenry; (ii) efficient,
equitable, and transparent management of scarce public resources; and (iii) guaranteed justice for all.

         2.2 Transitional National Development Plan

The TNDP was developed to provide a comprehensive national framework for government policies and
priorities. The TNDP encompasses areas not adequately covered by the PRSP, namely; Administration and
National Sovereignty sector (i.e. Judiciary, Law and Order, Foreign Relations, Defense and Security,
Policy Making, Science and Technology, Information Services, Population and Development, Regional
Development, and Local Government, Housing and Urban Development. Consistent with the PRSP, the
guiding theme for the TNDP is "sustained growth, employment creation and poverty reduction".

The TNDP further provides for a systematic institutional capacity and human resource enhancement of the
policy and Central Administration Sector to play a facilitative role in the achievement of economic growth
and poverty reduction. The specific sector objectives are to: (i) strengthen the overall administrative,
regulatory and planning framework for the efficient management of human and financial resources and
delivery of quality services; (ii) co-ordinate the formulation and implementation of Government policies,
systems, and procedures that will facilitate efficient delivery of public services; (iii) monitor and evaluate
the overall performance of the public service and the macroeconomic policy in order to timely implement
remedial measures; (iv) develop the macroeconomic policy framework and effectively mobilize and manage
economic resources in order to promote social and economic development; and (v) enhance financial
management, and ensure accountability and transparency in the public service for effective broad based
economic growth and poverty reduction.

The TNDP identifies strategies and interventions for the development of all the sectors including those to
address cross cutting challenges such as HIV/AIDS, gender and a sustainable environment. The Fifth
National Development Plan, to replace the TNDP, is now being finalized by government in association with
co-operating partners, for implementation in 2006.

         2.3 National Decentralization Policy

For sometime now, Government's management and operational structures, authority and decision-making
with respect to development planning and resource mobilization, management and utilization have been
over-centralized. This has led to the alienation of the majority of the population, especially at local level,
from participating effectively in determining and managing their own development. As a consequence,
national development has remained lopsided and the quality of service delivery has been poor. In addition,
most of the institutions at the local level, such as district and municipal councils, have inadequate human
and institutional capacity to deliver quality services.

In the past, efforts were made to decentralize some functions to provinces and districts, especially in the
education, health and agricultural sectors, but with limited success. One of the key contributing factors was
the lack of a clear national policy on decentralization. The Government, through an extensive consultation
process and in collaboration with some co-operating partners, has now developed and adopted a National


                                                     - 20 -

Decentralization Policy (NDP). The policy was approved by Cabinet in November, 2002 and launched in
August 2004. It provides a framework for achieving a fully decentralized and democratically elected system
of governance, characterized by open, predictable and transparent policy making and implementation
processes, and effective community participation in decision-making, development and administration of
their local affairs while maintaining sufficient and effective linkages between the centre and the periphery.
One of the key activities under the policy has been the development of a comprehensive Decentralization
Implementation Plan (DIP) and strategy to ensure systematic, effective and co-coordinated implementation
of the policy. The NDP, therefore, provides a principle framework for efficient functioning of both the
central and local government systems and for effective delivery of quality services to the people of Zambia
at various levels.

         2.4 National Aid Policy and Strategy

   The National Aid Policy aims to ensure that Zambia has a clear, systematic, and well coordinated
approach to solicit for, and acquire, utilize, manage, report, monitor, and evaluate assistance from
development cooperating partners. Clear policies on development cooperation will serve as a practical and
useful tool to both government-based operational staff that utilize aid as well as donors themselves that
would be made aware of the country's objectives for, and intended use of, external resources. These aid
policies and strategies will provide direction during dialogue between the Government and its cooperating
partners. It is the intention of the Government of Zambia to, use the aid policy and strategy frameworks to
effectively manage externally-derived donor resources and to provide a reference framework for donors
which will guide the development and implementation of donor assistance strategies within a harmonized
development environment.

3. Public Service Reform Macro-Framework: The Government Strategy and Action Plan for Public
Service Management and Capacity Building

In view of the policy context defined by the recent policy frameworks, and progress recorded through
implementing the PSRP, Government prepared a comprehensive Government Strategy and Action Plan for
Public Service Management and Capacity Building (known as the Public Service Management Program ­
PSMP) for the period 2004 to 2008, which has three major areas of reform and six broad areas of focus: (i)
Public Sector Management (Rightsizing and pay reforms, enhancing performance management,
strengthening policy management); (ii) Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability ­
PEMFA (general and broad-ranging public expenditure management reform building on PSCAP and other
projects, but with a programmatic focus); and, (iii) Decentralization and Strengthening of the Local
Government System.

4. Progress to Date

While the structural PRSPs have succeeded in promoting macro-economic stability in Zambia, generally it
has had little positive direct impact on public service reform (PSR) and delivery of public services. On the
contrary, it has, in most instances, severely constrained both capacity building and service delivery. Staff
reduction and employment freezes have provoked a shortage of skilled professionals and technicians
throughout the services, and of the frontline workers needed to sustain, improve quality and expand public
services in such key areas as education, health and agriculture extension. Cost sharing is another example
of a structural PSRP measure also negatively impacted on service delivery.

This lack of impact on PSR, has been reinforced by a lack of political will on the part of successive
governments since the implementation of the PSRP in 1993, combined with a seemingly equal lack of


                                                     - 21 -

bureaucratic leadership for these reforms. The development of an enabling environment for reform was
made more difficult by the inability or unwillingness of governments for much of the period 1993-2003 to
engage public sector unions, civil society and entrenched interests in the parastatals, within the governing
party (the Movement for Multiparty Democracy ­ MMD) and the opposition parties in the reform process,
thus leaving the locus of reform in the donor arena, rather than the domestic political arena. Conversely,
when government had the determination to push particular reforms, particularly high cost reforms such as
retrenchments, donors did not provide support. Therefore, in its rightsizing efforts, through which
considerable reductions were made to the public service over 10 years, government was left to bear most of
the cost, although a reallocation of funding to support some retrenchments through PSCAP and from other
donors partly offset this. This also indicates that the domestic funding of reforms is also difficult. Although
Zambia has achieved relative macro-economic stability and moderate economic growth over recent years, it
has not aggressively pursued economic diversification policies to broaden the economic base, which has
translated into relatively flat revenues since 1994 insufficient to domestically fund the broader PSR
program.

Despite this, public sector reforms have slowly but steadily been implemented over recent years. The GRZ
has made significant progress in civil service downsizing, initial pay reforms for the senior civil service,
some aspects of public sector restructuring such as the privatization and commercialization of many
parastatals, and in undertaking initial reforms in public financial management such as the introduction of a
payroll management and establishment control system, a financial management system and introduction of
a MTEF. However, the GRZ continues to struggle with management of, and accountability for, public
resources despite the modest progress made. Deficiencies still continue in most areas of the public
financial management cycle from parliamentary oversight and budget preparation to internal controls and
external audit.

The key issues faced by GRZ in ensuring a transparent and accountable public sector are the need to:

    (i) develop a budget and procurement system with greater transparency and effectiveness;
    (ii) further improve accountability and transparency in the use of public funds;
    (iii) effectively right size ministries and agencies based on organizational functions and the budget
    envelope;
    (iv) implement pay reforms that include incentives that would attract and retain skilled and professional
    staff in key sectors;
    (v) ensure that a decentralization strategy is implemented in step with the capacity of central
    government agencies to support it and the
          absorptive capacity of local governments to undertake effective service delivery.




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

The indicators in the log frame matrix have been scored on a numerical scale based on the six point scale
recommended in the Bank document: Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for ICR and OED Evaluations. The
average score for all indicators is 3.47. This indicates a score on this scale between Moderately
Satisfactory and Moderately Unsatisfactory. However, the scoring does not take into account the relative
weightings of subcomponents and activities within those subcomponents. No attempt has been made to
develop a weighting index for this ICR, but such a score indicates that the overall assessment above is
reasonably accurate.




         COMPONENT                       KEY PERFORMANCE                              ACHIEVEMENT                   RATING Numerical
                                                 INDICATOR                                                                  Rating
        COMPONENT 1
   RIGHT-SIZING AND PAY
              REFORM

Public Service establishment reduced  Separate excess and redundant staff        Reduced to 112,259 by June 2005      MS      4
                                      Enhance and implement social safety        Not met                               U      2
                                      net (SSN) programs
Rationalized structures in place      Structures and staffing levels met in      MDAs restructured but not            MS      4
                                      accordance with targets set in             evaluated. Pay study
                                      right-sizing and pay study                 recommendations not fully
                                                                                 accepted or implemented
                                      Vacancies filled with qualified staff      Not evaluated                         U      2
                                      more quickly than at outset
Non-core functions divested          Ten priority institutions or functions are  4 institutions agentized              U      2
                                     divested or hived off
                                      Enactment of appropriate legislation       Draft legislation prepared but not   MU      3
                                      and regulations                            enacted
Payroll and establishment more        Computer-based database operational        System operational                    S      5
effectively managed
                                      Training provided to # payroll and         All MDA payroll and                   S      5
                                      establishment personnel                    establishment personnel trained
Pay reform in place                  Public service pay policy agreed           MTPRS adopted                          S      5
                                      Pay reform study conducted                 Study conducted                       S      5
                                      All civil servants receive fully           Monetarization of salaries only      MU      3
                                      monetized salaries                         partly completed
                                      Legislation for revised pension scheme     Legislation prepared                  S      5
                                      prepared for consideration by
                                      Parliament
Private Sector Participation         Ten priority public enterprises divested    Not undertaken by project             U      2
                                     10% growth in foreign investment           Not evaluated by PSCAP                 U      2
                                      10% annual growth in tourism               Not evaluated by PSCAP                U      2


        COMPONENT 2
     POLICY AND PUBLIC
   SERVICE MANAGEMENT

Performance enhanced in priority      At least six "quick wins" activities       Activities funded                     S      5
services of the public service        funded by PIF
                                      Performance Management Package             PMPs piloted                          S      5
                                      (PMP) piloted in seven ministries
Gender bias reduced in public service 10% increase by end of Year 3 in           Not evaluated                         U      2
                                      women holding senior, managerial and
                                      technical positions in the public
                                      service
                                     Baseline survey conducted                  Survey not conducted                   U      2




                                                                    - 23 -

                                           Gender training course developed and      Training not developed or            U      2
                                           provided to 500 civil servants            provided
                                           Gender training course developed and      Training not developed or            U      2
                                           provided to 100 women civil servants      provided
Results-oriented Public Service          Manual finalized by year 3 of program      Manual finalized                      S      5
management
                                         Syllabus designed by end of year 1 of      Syllabus designed with manual         S     5
                                         program
                                           10 PMP trainers certified by end of       Trainers not certified               U      2
                                           year 2 of program
Strategic management skills of public Evaluation study carried out in year 1 of     Study conducted                       S      5
service managers improved                program
                                           Syllabus developed, supporting            Included in Results Oriented         MS     4
                                           materials produced; program piloted in    Management Manual
                                           7 ministries
Impact of AIDS on the public service One public service policy reflects new          Not done                             U      2
better understood                        information/statistics on AIDS and the
                                         public service
                                           Study completed by end of year 1 of       Not done                             U      2
                                           program
                                           Draft strategy document completed by      Not done                             U      2
                                           end of year 1 of program
Linkages between policy and budget       Policy decisions made that reflect          MoFNP approval for financial         MS     4
process strengthened                     budgetary constraints and priorities        impact of Cabinet policy decisions
                                                                                     required
                                           Task Force established, meets             Task Force not established           U      2
                                           regularly, and develops systems and
                                           procedural improvements
                                           Consultant conducts study and briefs      Not done                             U      2
                                           Task Force on recommendations
                                         Written procedures developed               New Cabinet handbook and policy       S      5
                                                                                    documentation procedures adopted
                                           Consultant conducts study and             Study conducted                      S      5
                                           recommends system enhancements and
                                           proposed time tables
Capacity enhanced for legal advice on      Legal opinion provided on all Cabinet     MOJ provides legal advice as         HS    6
proposed policies                          Memoranda that require such opinions      required
                                         New systems and procedures created          New procedures adopted but           MS     4
                                                                                     consistency of application is
                                                                                     uncertain
Policy formulation, implementation,        Consultant conducts evaluation,          Study conducted                       S      5
monitoring and evaluation procedures develops systems enhancements;
strengthened                               provides briefing/ discussion workshop
                                           Consultant conducts policy               Procedures not instituted             MU     3
                                           formulation study; new procedures
                                           instituted
                                           Consultant conducts policy evaluation    Procedures not implemented            MU     3
                                           study; new systems and procedures
                                           developed and implemented
                                           System introduced in three priority      System not introduced                 U      2
                                           Ministries (including training and
                                           equipment)
                                         Cabinet Documentation Unit (CDU)           CDU functional                        S      5
                                         functional
Understanding throughout the public Policy training program installed at local Training program not instituted in         U      2
service of the policy process, including training institution                       training institution
enhancements, enhanced
                                           Training piloted with policy-oriented    Training piloted                      S      5
                                           members of three Ministries
                                           At least 45 civil servants trained       Training conducted                    S      5
                                           receive international training or attend
                                           policy-oriented international
                                           conference
                                           Final draft of Guide produced            Guide produced                        S     5
                                           Assistance provided to two Ministries    Sectoral policies drafted             S     5
                                           for development/drafting of new




                                                                        - 24 -

                                     sectoral policy
Transparency, accountability and    Revised classification criteria guidelines Not done                               U     2
public participation in the policy  created
process improved
International advice and management Advisory services contracted and provided Not done                                U     2
assistance
                                     Management services contracted and        Not done                               U     2
                                     provided


        COMPONENT 3
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT,
ACCOUNTABILITY, AND
TRANSPARENCY OF PUBLIC
SERVICE

Effective controls adopted and      Reduced annual incidence of loss of         Official prosecuted as a result of    MU    3
implemented                         government resources due to better          Auditor-General's report
                                    internal controls
                                     Reduced annual incidence of loss of        Commitment controls somewhat          MU    3
                                     government resources due to                reduce MDA budget overruns
                                     strengthening of financial procedures
                                     Bill to revise State Audit Act presented Bill presented                          MS    4
                                     to parliament by 12//00
                                    Bill to Revise State Finance Act presented Bill presented                         MS    4
                                    to parliament by 06/00
                                     50% increase in number of registered       Achieved                              S     5
                                     members of ZICA by end of Yr. 3
                                    Improved disclosure in published            Sample evaluated                      MS    4
                                    company accounts
                                    ZICA promulgates a new Code of              New Code of Conduct                   S     5
                                    Conduct; unethical practices discussed      promulgated
                                    New NATech curriculum in place by           Curriculum in place                   S     5
                                    2001
                                    Local professional accounting exams by      Not done                              U     2
                                    2002
                                    Project trains 30 qualified accountants and Done                                  S     5
                                    auditors by 2002
Medium Term Financial Framework Strategies and action plan for                  Done by FY2004                        MS    4
(MTFF) in place                     implementation of MTFF ready by start of
                                    FY2001/2002
                                    MTFF introduced in at least 7 ministries    Introduced in FY2004                  MS    4
                                    in 2001/2002 and another 7 ministries in
                                    2003
Treasury management improved        IFMIS system design completed by March Not done                                   U     2
                                    2001
                                    CAATS system design complete by March System design completed in 2004             MS    4
                                    2001
                                    Implementation of new financial             Upgrade of existing FMS system        MU    3
                                    management system commences by April        undertaken
                                    2001
                                    IFMIS implemented at MOFED by end           Not done. FMS upgraded instead.       MS    4
                                    2002
                                    CAATS implemented at MOFED by end           Not done                              U     2
                                    of 2002
Enhance capacity of OAG             # OAG staff trained by 2002                 190 staff trained by 2004             S     5
                                    Supply and install equipment                Equipment installed                   S     5
                                    Increased frequency and regularity of       Audits regularity increased           S     5
                                    audit reports
Improve OAG's infrastructure         Training center opens for use by 2002      Training centre opened in 2004        S     5
                                    Training center equipped by 2002            Training centre equipped by 2004      MS    4
                                    Improved quality and timeliness of OAG      Quality and timeliness of reports     S     5
                                    reports                                     improved
OAG operational in all provinces    All provinces staffed with qualified audit  Achieved by 2004                      MU    3
                                    managers by 2002




                                                                   - 25 -

                                    Improved scope, quality and timeliness of  Provincial audit office reports       MS    4
                                    audit reports for the provincial audit     somewhat improved
                                    offices
Independence of OAG enhanced          Study of current OAG independence,       Done                                  MS    4
                                      models in other countries completed
                                      according to TORs by 2000
                                    Action plan drafted                        Done                                  MS    4
Improve performance of the Public   Study of current PAC performance,          Study completed                        S    5
Accounts Committee (PAC)            models in other countries completed
                                    according to TORs
                                    Final draft strategy agreed                Strategy agreed                        S    5
                                    Implementation of performance              Plan implemented from 2003            MS    4
                                    improvement plan commences by 2001
Enhance capacity of Zambia National Minimum of 50 procurement personnel        298 ZNTB staff trained by June        MS    4
Tender Board (ZNTB)                 trained according to training plan         2005, but only 10 out of 100
                                                                               graduate recruits remain.
                                    Priority equipment purchased according to Equipment purchased                     S    5
                                    procurement plan
Strengthen Procurement Supplies     Ten PSUs established by year 2 of          Additional 16 units established by    MS    4
Unit System                         program                                    Year 5 of project
Strengthen Procurement Supplies     20 PSU staff are trained                  Approximately 600 staff trained by      S    5
Units (PSUs)                                                                  June 2005
                                    Priority equipment provided to PSUs        Equipment provided                     S    5
                                    according to agreed plan
Strengthen linkages between PSUs andOn-line exchanges of data and information Online data exchange trial              S    5
ZNTB                                between ZNTB and PSUs is conducted by conducted
                                    year 3


         COMPONENT 4
  IMPROVED CAPACITY OF
 THE JUDICIAL AND LEGAL
               SYSTEM

Increase in number of trained         # of magistrates and judges trained      44 Judges and 126 magistrates          S    5
judiciary staff                                                                trained
                                    # of staff involved in judicial            74 administrative and 185 court        S    5
                                    administration trained                     support staff trained
                                    # of to local court magistrates trained    Training data not disaggregated ­     NA    0
                                                                               incorporated above
                                    # of to judiciary management staff trained Training data not disaggregated ­     NA    0
                                                                               incorporated above
Improve Judiciary Infrastructure      Three court facilities rehabilitated     Eight court houses rehabilitated       S    5
                                    Priority equipment provided                Equipment provided                     S    5
Improve processing of litigation    New processes developed and agreed for     New case management                    S    5
                                    civil and criminal registries              information system developed and
                                                                               piloted
                                    Final draft of "Judiciary Legal Assistants Not done                               U    2
                                    Handbook" produced by end of Year 3 of
                                    program
Improve legal framework and         Consultant's report on collation of        Not done                               U    2
institutional coordination          legislation
                                    Public workshops and seminars              Some workshops held                   MU    3
                                    heldDecision reached at workshop
                                    attended by MOLA, OAG, MHA,
                                    judiciary, ACC, HRC, etc. on legislative
                                    improvements program
Train professional staff in MOLA,   Fifteen staff attend courses attend short  12 lawyers, 25 paralegal and 35        S    5
MHA, judiciary, ACC, HRC, etc.      courses in legislative drafting, law       administrative staff in MOLA,
                                    revision, and advanced prosecution         MHA, ACC, HRC and the
                                                                               judiciary trained in legal drafting
                                    Six staff attend courses in international  Done                                   S    5
                                    law
                                    New procedures and systems documented      Done                                  MS    4
                                    Syllabus for training in-service training  Done                                  MS    4
                                    courses for MOLA legal staff finalized




                                                                   - 26 -

                                        Vehicles procured                        Vehicles procured                    S      5
                                        Equipment procured and installed         Equipment procured and installed     S      5
                                        Equipment maintained and receive         Done                                 MS     4
                                        recommended service and repairs


        COMPONENT 5
 DECENTRALIZATION AND
        PARTICIPATORY
         DEVELOPMENT

Improve local capacity to make          Consulting report summarizes capacity of Report not done                      U     2
decisions and deliver services          local administration of all provinces
                                        Strategy for building capacity of local  No done                              U     2
                                        administration staff agreed and drafted
                                        Medium-term action plan for              Not done                             S     3
                                        decentralization agreed and drafted
Capacity of civil society organizations Five studies conducted by Year 3 of      Not done                             U     2
to participate in public service reform program; three focus group sessions
dialogue strengthened                   conducted on relevant topics


        COMPONENT 6
 PROGRAM MANAGEMENT                     Strengthen PICU's capacity to monitor    Training provided                    S      5
                                        implementation and achievement of
                                        performance indicators
                                        Collection and analysis of component     Data collection addressed almost     MS     4
                                        information and other reform program     all indicators
                                        information
                                        Establishment of performance baseline    Baseline data not established for    MS     4
                                        data for components                      all subcomponents
                                        Provision of information on the project  Information provision strategies     S      5
                                                                                 for stakeholders implemented and
                                                                                 effective
                                        Dissemination of project results to      Dissemination to stakeholders        S      5
                                        stakeholders                             implemented and effective
                                        Dissemination of stakeholder comments to Dissemination to implementing        MS     4
                                        implementing agencies                    agencies implemented but
                                                                                 effectiveness varied
                    TOTAL SCORE                                                                                             419

                        MEAN SCORE                                                                                          3.81




                                                                      - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                       Appraisal      Actual/Latest Percentage
                                                        Estimate       Estimate      of Appraisal
                     Component                         US$ million    US$ million         %
1.     Rightsizing and Pay Reform                        14.2            19.99           141
2.     Policy and Public Service Management               8.9            5.60            62
3.     Financial Management, Accountability and
Transparency                                             15.3            6.95            45
4.     Judicial and Legal                                 2.1            2.18            103
5.     Decentralization                                   0.6            0.00             0
6. Program Management                                     2.9            4.66            161
Total Baseline Cost                                      44.0            39.38            90
Physical and Price Contingencies                          1.3             0.00             0
                                   Total Project Costs   45.3            39.38           90
                            Total Financing Required     45.3            39.38           90


  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                           Procurement Method   1


  Expenditure Category           ICB           NCB          Other 2   Total Cost

1. Works                         0.00           1.10         0.00        1.10
                                 0.00          (1.10)        0.00       (1.10)
2. Goods                         7.33           0.00         0.08        7.40
                               (6.36)           0.00        (.0.08)     (6.44)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00        23.14       23.14
                                 0.00           0.00       (10.16)     (10.16)
4. Training                      0.00           0.00         8.40        8.40
                                 0.00           0.00        (6.73)      (6.73)
5. Incremental Operating         0.00           0.00         4.79        4.79
   Cost                          0.00           0.00        (3.50)      (3.50)
6. PPF                           0.00             -            -          -
                                  0.
6. Unallocated                   0.00           0.00         0.50        0.50
                                 0.00           0.00        (0.50)      (0.50)
   Total                         7.33           1.10        36.91       45.34
                               (6.36)          (1.10)      (20.96)     (28.42)

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)


                                             Procurement Method   1


  Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB         Other 2  Total Cost




                                                - 28 -

    1. Works                               0.00             0.27            0.00               0.27
                                           0.00            (0.65)           0.00               (0.65)
    2. Goods                               7.33             0.00            0.08               7.40
                                           (.36)            0.00           (.0.08)             (6.44)
    3. Consultancy Services                0.00             0.00            0.21               0.21
                                           0.00             0.00          (11.01)             (11.01)
    4. Training                            0.00             0.00            8.40               8.40
                                           0.00             0.00           (6.73)              (6.73)
   5. Incremental Operating                0.00             0.00            4.79               4.79
        Cost                               0.00             0.00           (1.73)              (1.73)
    6. Unallocated                         0.00             0.00            0.00               0.00
                                           0.00             0.00           (0.00)              (0.00)
    7. PPF                                 0.00             0.00            0.00               0.00
                                           0.00             0.00            0.59               0.59
    8. Severance payments                  0.00             0.00            0.00               0.00
                                           0.00             0.00           (7.22)              (7.22)
       Total                               7.33             1.10            36.91              45.34
                                          (6.36)           (1.10)         (20.96)             (28.42)

        1.  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
          2.Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
            services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services,
            and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds
            to local government units.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank         Govt.      CoF.      Bank         Govt.        CoF.      Bank    Govt.  CoF.
1. Rightsizing and Pay          4.50         0.16       10.00     9.82          0.16        10.00     218.2   100.0  100.0
Reform
2. Policy and Public            9.00         0.32       0.00      6.23          0.32        0.00      69.2    100.0   0.0
Service Management
3. Financial Management,        9.80         0.34       0.00      6.24          0.34        0.00      63.7    100.0   0.0
Accountability and
Transparency
4. Judicial and Legal           2.20         0.08       0.48      2.20          0.08        0.21      100.0   100.0   43.8
5. Decentralization             0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00          0.00        0.00       0.0     0.0    0.0
6. Project Implementation       2.90         0.10       0.00      4.17          0.10        0.00      143.8   100.0   0.0




                                                          - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              July 1999                 3    Senior Public Sector Specialist
                                             Institutional Specialist
                                             Procurement Specialist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              September 1999            5    Senior Public Sector
                                             Specialist
                                             Country Manager
                                             Economist
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist


 Supervision
              June 2001                 2    Senior Public Sector                 S               S
                                             Development Specialist
                                             Public Sector Development
                                             Specialist
              February 2002             2    Senior Public Sector                 S               S
                                             Development Specialist
                                             Public Sector Development
                                             Specialist
                                             In association with IMF mission
              May 2002                  1    Senior Public Sector Specialist      S               S
              September 2002            3    Senior Public Sector Specialist      S               S
                                             Consultant, IFMIS
                                             Consultant, MTEF & pay reform
              October 2002              6    Senior Public Sector Specialist      S               S
                                             Public Sector Specialist
                                             Lead Public Sector Development
                                             Specialist
                                             Legal Counsel
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             Financial Management Specialist
              March 2003                4    Senior Public Sector                 S               S
                                             Management Specialist (2)
                                             Procurement Specialist
                                             Consultant
              February 2004             4    Senior Public Sector                 S               S
              June 2005                 2    Management Specialist
                                             Public Sector Management
                                             Specialist
                                             Economist
                                             Senior Information Officer



                                              - 31 -

                                           Senior Public Sector
                                           Management Specialist
                                           Public Sector Management
                                           Specialist

 ICR
               July 2005              1     Senior Public Sector              S    S
                                            Management Specialist
                                            Public Sector Management
                                            Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         70.32
  Appraisal/Negotiation                41.58                        133.94
  Supervision                        177.95                         553.20
  ICR                                   5.32                         20.91
  Total                                                             778.37




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Acess to Justice




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.     Preparation Documents
1.1    Mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoirs and Back-to-Office reports.
1.2    Staff Appraisal Report
1.3    PSCAP: Letter of Development Policy, GRZ, January 25, 2000

2.     Implementation Documents
2.1    Project Status Reports (PSRs).
2.2    Aide-Memoires of supervision missions.
2.3    Letter from Minister of Finance to Country Director Re Zambia PSCAP Credit No. 3329za:
Request to Amend the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to Allow for US$10 Million Funding for
Retrenchment.

3.     Mid Term Review Aide Memoire

4.     Proposed Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement

5.     Completion Reports

5.1    GRZ's Implementation Completion Report
5.2    UNZA, Department of Political and Administrative Studies, The Public Service Reform
Programme (PRSP) and the Public Sector Capacity                Building Project (PSCAP) Impact
Assessment, August 2005
5.3    Judiciary report
5.4    Commission for Investigations report
5.5    Ministry of Justice PSCAP - Implementing Report
5.6    MOFNP Completion report for PSCAP
5.7    National Assembly Report
5.8    NIPA PSCAP Completion Report
5.9    PAC Implementation Completion Report
5.10   ZICA Project Implementation Completion Report
5.11   ZNTB Completion Report

6.     Other Documents

Valentine, Theodore R., A Medium-Term Strategy for Enhancing Pay And Conditions of Service in the
Zambian Public Service Final Report, Cabinet Office, Government of the Republic of Zambia, May 2002

IMF, Zambia: Joint Staff Assessment of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper Progress Report
2003-2004, Country Report No. 04/179, July 01, 2004

World Bank, Capacity Building in Africa: An OED Evaluation of World Bank Support, Washington D.C.,
World Bank, 2005

Kayizzi-Mugerwa, Steve (Ed.), Reforming Africa's Institutions: Ownership, Incentives and Capabilities,
Helsinki, UNU/WIDER, 2003

Van der Heijden, Hendrik, "Zambian policy making and the donor community in the 1990s", in:


                                                - 35 -

Kayizzi-Mugerwa, Steve (Ed.), Reforming Africa's Institutions: Ownership, Incentives and Capabilities,
Helsinki, UNU/WIDER, 2003, pp. 77-104

Levy, Brian and Kpundeh, Sahr, Building State Capacity in Africa: New Approaches, Emerging Lessons,
Washington D.C., World Bank Institute, 2004

Stevens, Mike and Teggemann, Stephanie, "Comparative Experience with Public Service Reform in
Ghana, Tanzania, and Zambia", in: Levy, Brian and Kpundeh, Sahr, Building State Capacity in Africa:
New Approaches, Emerging Lessons, Washington D.C., World Bank Institute, 2004, pp. 43-86

Garnett, Harry and Plowden, William, "Cabinets, Budgets and Poverty: Political Comitment to Poverty
Reduction", in: Levy, Brian and Kpundeh, Sahr, Building State Capacity in Africa: New Approaches,
Emerging Lessons, Washington D.C., World Bank Institute, 2004, pp. 149-17

Hill, Catherine B. and McPherson, Malcolm F., Promoting and Sustaining Economic Reform in Zambia,
Cambridge (Mass.), Harvard University Press, 2004

McPherson, Malcolm F, "The New Economic Recovery Programmme: The Second Time Round," in: Hill,
Catherine B. and McPherson, Malcolm F., Promoting and Sustaining Economic Reform in Zambia,
Cambridge (Mass.), Harvard University Press, 2004, pp. 49-78




                                                - 36 -

Additional Annex 8. Supplementary Tables

Table1: Original Components, Subcomponents and Costs as in PAD
              Component                          Number of                 Number of Major             Cost (US$
                                              Subcomponents                 Subcomponents              millions)
1. Rightsizing, and Pay Reform                        7                             5                     4.1
2. Policy and Public Service                          8                             4                     5.0
Management
3. Financial Management,                             10                             7                     8.6
Accountability and Transparency
4. Judicial and Legal                                 4                             1                     1.4
5. Decentralization                                   5                             4                     0.4
    Technical Component Sub-total                    35                         21 (62%)
6. Program Management                                 6                             -                     2.8
                                  Totals             40                             -                     22.3




Table 2: Ratings of APL Triggers for PSCAP Phase 1
                                    TRIGGER                                                 ACHIEVEMENT
1. Pay Reform

1.1 Substantial progress made in implementing the monetisation of benefits available Moderately satisfactory
to civil servants
1.2 Fixed term contracts negotiated with all Permanent Secretaries                     Highly Satisfactory
1.3 Salaries of key technical and professional staff increased as laid out in the Moderately satisfactory
Medium Term Pay Strategy.

2. Establishment and Payroll Control

2.1 Effective payroll and establishment control systems in place, with no ghost Satisfactory
workers, no ghost allowances and no retrenched staff returning to the civil service

3. Financial and Policy Management

3.1 Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) will replace Cash Budget as the Moderately Satisfactory
basis for disbursements in the fiscal year that includes the final year of the project
(Phase 1- FY 2004)                                                                     Highly Satisfactory
3.2 All proposals with financial implications made to Cabinet over the past year
cleared by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development for concurrence with
the budgets agreed under the Medium Term Financial Framework

4. Financial Management and Accountability                                            Moderately Satisfactory

4.1 2001 end-of-year financial statements for the seven ministries piloting the
Performance Improvement Fund ready for review by Auditor-General within six
months


Table 3: Summary of Project Expenditures by Component and by Expenditure Category

                   Compnt 1      Compont 2       Compnt 3        Compnt 4          Compnt 5     Compnt 6     Total Actual Appraisl
                  Rightsizing     Policy &       Financial      Judicial and      Decentral.       PICU       Spending    Estimate  actual/
                     & Pay         Public       Management,        Legal                                                            apprasl
                    Reform        Service       Transparency
                                Management           &



                                                            - 37 -

                                           Accountability
Consultancy and
audit              528,566.79  2,060,163.83   1,512,503.06    101,388.55      0.00  1,213,121.05  5,415,743.28 10,100,000
Training          1,280,242.40  573,669.05    2,351,612.82    889,086.48             502,103.05   5,596,713.80  6,800,000
Equipment and
vehicles           685,934.32  3,335,866.18   1,845,485.87    677,533.60      0.00   695,582.09   7,240,402.06  6,400,000
Civil Works               0.00    64,444.44    363,856.19     217,823.82                              646,124   1,100,100
Incremental                                                                         1,171,214.81
operating costs    106,478.85   193,405.81     165,028.22      89,202.05      0.00                1,725,329.74  3,500,000
PPF                                                                                     588,718       588,718           0
Unallocated                  0            0              0             0      0.00             0             0    500,000
Severance
Payments          7,222,70325             0              0             0      0.00             0  7,222,703.00          0
Total actual
spending          9,823,925.61 6,227,549.31   6,238,486.16  1,975,034.50      0.00  4,170,738.95 28,435,735.00
Appraisal
estimate          4,500,000.00 9,000,000.00   9,800,000.00  2,200,000.00      0.00  2,930,000.00               28,400,000
% actual/appraisl
                          218            69             64            90         0          142           100



Table 4 - Reallocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Cat              Description               Original          Realloc. 1    Realloc. 2       Realloc. 3        Actual Disb.
                                             DCA              12/19/02     06/04/03          08/19/05
                                             USD                USD          USD                USD              USD
  1      Consultancy, training and        15,100,000.0     7,100,000.00   10,400,000.0     11,100,000.0       11,012,457.0
         audit                                         0                              0                 0                 8
   2    Equipment and vehicles             6,400,000.00 4,900,000.00      7,300,000.00     7,300,000.00       7,240,402.06
   3    Civil works                        1,100,000.00 1,100,000.00        800,000.00        900,000.00        646,124.46
   4    Incremental operating costs        3,600,000.00 3,600,000.00      1,600,000.00     1,800,000.00       1,725,329.74
   5    Project preparatory fund             800,000.00       600,000.00    600,000.00        600,000.00         588,718.0
   6    Unallocated                        1,000,000.00       700,000.00          0.00              0.00               0.00
   7    Severance payments                          0.00 10,000,000.0     7,300,000.00     7,300,000.00       7,222,703.00
                                                                        0
         Total                            28,000,000.0     28,000,000.0   28,000,000.0     28,400,000.0       28,435,734.5
                                                       0                0             0                 0                 4




                                                        - 38 -

- 39 -

