Report No. PID8804
Project name                     Zambia-Public Service Capacity Building...
Program
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       ZMPE50400
Borrower(s)                      Government of the Republic of Zambia
Implementing agency              Professor B. Mweene
Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet
Cabinet Office
Lusaka, Zambia
Tel:     (260+1) 251065
Email:  pscap@zamnet.zm
Environment Category             C
Date this PID prepared           December 8, 1999
Projected Appraisal date         October  8, 1999
Projected Board date             March, 2000
Country and sector background
Government began a radical social and economic reform process in the early
1990s. Economic liberalization included removal of subsidies, the
privatization of parastatal companies, and redefinition of the role of the
public service from that of controlling the overall economy to that of
providing an enabling environment for increased participation of the private
sector and individuals in the economic and social development of the country.
The redefinition of the role of the public service was based, in part, on the
realization that service delivery by the public service, in general, and the
Civil Service, in particular, had deteriorated.
Some progress has been made in meeting the objectives of the Public Service
Reform Program which was launched in 1993. These include the retrenchment of
almost 20 per cent of civil servants in 1998 and 1999; a wage freeze to bring
public costs under control; the privatization of over 80 per cent of 280
state-owned enterprises; the implementation of a policy process that
emphasizes coordination; substantial decentralization in the health and
agriculture sectors; the preparation of restructuring plans for all
ministries; the introduction of frameworks for improving legal and accounting
capacity; and the preparation of a national capacity building program for
good governance.
However many problems remain to be addressed: the public service is still
highly centralized; civil service wages are low and highly compressed; most
Cabinet decisions are not implemented as planned; recruitment is only
loosely linked to merit; and there is no effective system of sanctions for
misappropriation and misapplication of public resources.     The quality of
many services is declining rather than improving.



Program objectives
The objective of Public Service Capacity Building Program (PSCAP) is to
transform the structures and processes of service delivery so that citizens
and businesses receive the public services they need and can afford.
Since such a transformation of public service delivery is expected to take
almost a generation, PSCAP has been designed as a thirteen-year Adaptable
Program Loan (APL). Phase 1 will put in place the basic financial
management, personnel and other systems, continue public service rightsizing,
begin to reform wages, and implement the restructuring of the public service,
the theme of which is to move services provision nearer to clients -- in
general, getting the public service ready for results-oriented management.
Phase 2 will roll out performance management throughout the public service,
leading to many clear service improvements; increasingly, service provision
will be decentralized to private providers, local government, and executive
agencies, with greater community involvement. Phase 3 will institutionalize
performance management by establishing cycles of "use new systems, monitor
and adjust."
During the first, three-year phase of PSCAP a number of critical system-wide
reforms to support improved service delivery will be introduced. These
include reducing public service staffing, reforming pay, introducing more
effective human resources management, and improving resource allocation and
financial management systems. The first phase will also support progress
being made under ongoing programs to restructure, decentralize, and improve
accountability and transparency in the public service.
By the end of the program as a whole it will be possible to characterize the
public service as follows:
Model for decentralization of service provision institutionalized
Local government units more active in service provision
Final phase of privatization completed
Executive agencies established to provide services where private provision
not appropriate
Model for client-responsive, result-oriented leadership and management
established throughout the public service
Environment conducive to foreign and local investment established
Decentralized human resources management in place
Strong linkage between policy process and resources established
Most policies implemented as planned
Public service fully sustained from budgetary resources
Public servants routinely trained and retrained in skills needed for the
result-oriented public service
Capacity developed for private and public training institutes to deliver the
training needed by public servants
Office of the Auditor General (OAG) fully autonomous and decentralized
Effective and transparent public procurement system in place
Commission of Investigation (COI) with well trained and equipped personnel
Program description
Each of PSCAP's five components builds upon past and ongoing institutional
reforms that aim to establish a more effective, efficient and decentralized
- 2-



provision of public services:
Rightsizing and Pay Reform
Policy and Public Service Management
Financial Management, Accountability and Transparency
Judicial and Legal
Decentralization
Right-sizing and Pay Reform: The objective of this component is to bring
about the restructuring necessary rationalize the functions of government and
to generate the financial resources needed to begin to create the pay
incentives needed to motivate staff. Phase I will build upon progress made
under the UNDP supported restructuring of ministries and the retrenchment
carried out over the past year and assist Government in rationalizing the
structure and size of the Public Service. It is expected that the
establishment will be reduced from 136,000 in June 1997 to about 112,000 by
the end of 1999 and about 110,000 by the end of 2000. The long term goal is
to have a core civil service of 10-12,000. The main activities to be carried
out under this component in Phase 1 would be: (i) separation of excess and
redundant staff; (ii) creating a computer-based Complements and Gradings
Register; (iii) putting in place payroll and establishment control systems;
(iv) enhancing social safety net programs; (v) restructuring of the public
service; (vi) enhancing capacity of the PSC to undertake selection and
placement of appropriate personnel in the restructured Ministries; (vii)
identifying and divesting non-core functions; and (viii) reform pay through
monetization, negotiating performance contracts with PSs and increasing
salaries, especially the salaries of key technical and professional staff.
The Management Development Division in the Cabinet Office will lead this
component.
Policy and Public Service Management:    As direct service provision is
decentralized, policy formulation and monitoring will become the business of
government. The core civil service, which may contract to about 10-12,000
staff after 13 years, will be prepared for its new role under this component.
PSCAP will continue the work begun with IrishAid support and will assist
Government Ministries and other institutions to establish a results-oriented,
professional and well motivated public service. The specific activities to
be undertaken under this component in Phase I will be to: (i) enhance the
performance of priority services through a Performance Improvement Fund and a
"quick wins" program; (ii) create a gender sensitive public service;
(iii) introduce a results oriented public service; (iv) train staff in
strategic management; (v) and assess the impact of AIDS on the public
service.
PSCAP will also continue the capacity building and process reform started
under USAID funding, by supporting activities that will improve the capacity
to formulate, analyze and co-ordinate policies. Critical elements of this
component include: (i) activation of a Policy-Budget Linkages Task Force;
(ii) training staff in Ministry of Legal Affairs (MOLA) and the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Development (MOFED) to analyze proposed policies; (iii)
designing and piloting an in-service policy-oriented training program; (iv)
revising the classification scheme for policy-related documents; (v)
introducing mechanisms for public debate on policies and policy proposals;
(vi) establishing a computer-based cabinet documentation unit; and (vii)
-3 -



designing and piloting a policy monitoring system.     The Cabinet Office's
Policy Analysis and Coordination Division (PAC) will lead this component,
with MOLA and MOFED playing supporting roles.
Financial Management, Accountability and Transparency: This component
combines capacity building MOFED, OAG, Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB),
and the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee since the effectiveness
of processes in one depends upon support from the others.
Under MOFED's sub-component, which sets out to implement many of the
recommendations made in the Bank's recent Financial Management Sector Study,
and builds upon progress made under a number of donor supported programs,
including EU's, PSCAP will put in place mechanisms that would ensure that:
(i) financial resources are efficiently, effectively and economically
acquired, allocated and utilized, including the introduction of the Medium
Term Financial Framework to the budgetary process; (ii) capacity of Zambia
Institute of Chartered Accountants (ZICA) and other training institutions is
enhanced; (iii) financial management policies procedures, and processes are
revised; and (iv) capacity developed in MOFED to monitor and supervise
revenue collection and allocation, and expenditure processes. All these
activities would be spearheaded by MOFED.
The OAG and ZNTB sub-component follows up on the Bank supported FILMUP
Project. The activities included under this component are referred to in
GRZ recently prepared Governance Policy. The activities will include: (i)
enhancing the independence of the Office of the Auditor General; (ii)
improving the capacity of the Office of the Auditor General; (iii)
decentralizing the operations of the Office of the Auditor General; and (iv)
developing and/or strengthening mechanisms that would ensure that all public
institutions comply with procurement regulations and procedures.
PSCAP will also augment the capacity of the National Assembly's Public
Accounts Committee to review and recommend action on reports from the OAG
through training and giving the Committee access to specialist assistance.
Judicial and Legal. The planned outputs and activities under this component
are predominantly a continuation of those initiated under the Financial and
Legal Management upgrading Project (FILMUP, IDA Cr. 2535ZA) which is now
coming to a close. These include (i) training staff in MOLA and the
Judiciary, and developing where necessary, procedures/systems in MOLA and
line ministries; and (ii) identifying and reviewing current laws and
legislation impacting on accountability and transparency.     Government has
adopted a modest program of civil works in Phase I of the project. These
civil works are considered to be priority investments for the judiciary, and
they are confined to rehabilitation of three courts in the first phase of
PSCAP. The balance of most of the funds under the component will be used in
technical assistance and training for specialist skills
Decentralization. PSCAP will provide bridging activities to further the
discussion and decisions regarding decentralization - until such time as
other anticipated initiatives, more focused on local government per se, can
come on line. PSCAP's contribution will be assisting in the definition of
the policy and development of a strategy for its implementation. PSCAP will
also establish a fund for an external organization, such as a university-
based research institute, to carry out surveys of the quality of service
- 4 -



delivery to various segments of the population, including the poor,
disadvantaged, residents of rural areas and small businesses. These surveys
will give "voice" to those not normally involved in the reform of public
services.
Program costs
Component          Sector    Indicative    % of Total    Bank-       9 of Bank-
Costs                       financing   financing
(US$M)                      (US$M)
Right-
sizing
and pay
reform                       15            33            4           16
Policy and
public
service
management                   9             21            9           32
Financial
management,
account-
ability,
transparency                 16            35            10          37
Judicial
and legal                    2             5             2           7
Decentra-
lization                     1             2             2           0
Project
management                   2             4             2           7
Total       45             100          27           100
Program implementation
The Program will be led by what is collectively referred to as the Leadership
and Management Team, which is firmly embedded inside the public service
itself. The Leadership and Management Team is comprised of the Deputy
Secretary to the Cabinet - Fin./Econ. Dev., the chief executive of each
implementing agency, and the following groupings: the Steering Committee,
Program Implementation and Coordination Team (PIC), and the Technical
Committee. The Steering Committee, which serves an advisory and coordinating
function, is comprised of the Deputy Secretary to the Cabinet - Fin./Econ.
Dev. and the chief executive of all implementing agencies. The technical
staff of PIC consists of the Director/PIC, Finance Manager/PIC, Procurement
Manager/PIC and M&E Manager/PIC. Their function is to advise the Deputy
Secretary to the Cabinet - Fin./Econ. Dev. and implementing agencies on
program-related matters that require their attention. The PIC also serves a
coordinating and facilitative role to maximize program effectiveness and
timeliness. The Technical Committee, which is meant to serve as a venue to
discuss operational program implementation matters, includes as its members
- 5 -



the technical PIC staff and a designate from each of the implementing
agencies, who will be known as sub-component task managers.
Program sustainability
Capacity building approach. Past project approaches have had a limited
impact on sustainability as they constituted a series of uncoordinated
projects that were often too dependent on external expertise. That approach
failed to develop the necessary systems and local capacity to sustain the
activities beyond the projects' life. To ensure sustainability under this
program, no new institution will be created. Existing agencies will
basically carry on with their functions, except as those functions are
revised under the program. These agencies will in general be required to
build upon or adjust activities in which they are already engaged. The
program sets out to enhance the capacity of individuals and institutions; it
will work by building capacity to achieve sustainability.
Government commitment. The program will be sustained because the Government
is committed at the highest levels. GRZ has demonstrated its commitment to
public sector reform by privatizing over 150 state-owned enterprises, one of
the best records in Africa; by retrenching 22,000 public servants; and by
introducing measures that make it almost impossible for retrenched civil
servants to return to the civil service. During the recent Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) process, the Government itself identified "local
capacity building" and "public service capacity building" as among its own
development principles and priorities.
Civil Service commitment. The effective and willing participation of civil
servants at the highest levels in the preparation of this program
demonstrates their commitment to make the program work. The staff involved
in the preparation of the PCD and the PAD have given up months of their own
time; and their PSs have released them for many more months to assist in the
preparation. Most of the costs of this have been borne by the
Government. The Secretary of the Cabinet/Head of the Civil Service has
supported the preparation of the program throughout and has reviewed and
approved all drafts of the documents. Each component of the program has been
cleared with the departmental or agency head responsible for its
implementation.
Ownership. Zambian ownership of the project - a result of the capacity
building approach and Government and Civil Service commitment -- is the best
guarantee of sustainability. The donors that have been involved in the
preparation of the program will sustain the program through their ownership.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Important lessons were learned from the first six years experience of
implementing PSRP. Some of these lessons highlight the need to improve the
capacity of managers in the public service. The Issues Study carried out at
the beginning of the preparation of the program demonstrated that even after
many years managers still did not think strategically, especially about
implementation. Although restructuring plans were developed, little has been
done to implement them Other lessons point to the need to establish linkages,
think about phasing and do " first things first." One reason for the lack of
- 6-



retrenchment was that the Government was not able to find any way to pay
retrenched staff . Thus, it is necessary to link restructuring to
retrenchment in order to release budgetary resources to pay for the
retrenchment. Similarly, funding was never made available to decompress
salaries, an essential precondition for motivating staff to perform more
effectively. Over the years capacity deficiencies have become increasingly
recognized as major impediments to growth. During the recent CAS process the
Government identified weak public service capacity as one of the main reasons
for weak economic performance and limited success in alleviating poverty.
The past few years also demonstrated the importance of putting in place the
means to link sectoral and government-wide institutional reform with
realistic budgets. At the same time the Cabinet set out to substantially
reduce the size of the public service, strategies were being prepared in some
sectors that involved considerable staffing increases. Mechanisms did not
seem to be in place to reconcile the proposed increase in the numbers of
teachers, policy, prison workers and health workers with budgetary
constraints.
One of the most important lessons learned during the preparation of the
project, and the preparation of the Public Sector Reform and Export Promotion
Credit (the current adjustment operation), is the importance of having an
effective management structure. The original plan under PSREP was to locate
the management of the Public Service Reform Program outside the civil service
along the lines of the Zambia Privatization Agency. This did not work,
mainly because it did not take into account the constitutional
responsibilities of the Secretary to the Cabinet, who is also the Head of the
Civil Service and the President's Principal Advisor. Since the Secretary to
the Cabinet has the constitutional responsibility to implement any policies
concerning the civil service, an agency outside could not have the authority
needed to implement the necessary reforms. Therefore PSCAP will be managed
from within the civil service, in fact, from the very heart of the civil
service, the Cabinet Office, under the authority of the Secretary to the
Cabinet.
The project design has drawn upon the Bank's own experience of public service
reform and capacity building. The paper, "The World Bank: Addressing the
Challenge of Reforming Public Institutions," recommends five broad changes
in the Bank's approach. Each will be significantly addressed in this
program:
Shift focus from the content of public policy to the way policy is made and
implemented. One of the program components, policy management will do just
this.
Address a broad range of mechanisms that promote public sector reform. The
accountability and transparency component will have an impact on rules and
restraints; the rightsizing and public management component will promote the
commercialization of the provision of public services; and the program has
been prepared with substantial voice and partnership, as explained below
under Participation.
Emphasize good fit over best practice. The program has been prepared by a
Zambian team very familiar with reform efforts to date and the institutions
and processes that need to be reformed
- 7-



Enhance institutions through longer-term programmatic lending. A 13-year APC
is proposed for a program that focuses on capacity building
Develop skills to do better institutional work.    Above all else, PSCAP is
setting out to develop skills to reform processes and institutions.
Program Benefits
The benefits of the Program include:
an improved quality of life of the Zambian people through the cost-effective
provision of public services;
a reduction in poverty through better targeting of subsidies to the poor and
the effective implementation of public policies that will promote private
sector development;
a public service that will deliver quality services at relatively lower
costs;
public servants motivated to perform well;
a public service that will deliver quality services at relatively lower
costs; and promoted on the basis on merit alone;
public servants who are accountable for their decisions and actions;
policy decision-making and service provision that is more transparent to the
beneficiaries.
The people of Zambia are the ultimate target population, in particular the
poor, who have such limited access to public services. PSCAP will aim to
improve the capacity of the people in the private and public sectors who are
expected to supply public services, and the capacity of the processes they
will use to provide those services.
Environmental Assessment Category Rating: C
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:         (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Harry C. Garnett
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-8188
Fax:        (202) 473-8368
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 17, 2000.
- 8 -



