Report No. PID6979
PID6979.TXT
Project Name                     Mozambique-Enterprise Development Project (@)
(Projecto para o Desenvolvimento Empresarial,
PoDE)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       MZPE49874
Borrower                         Government of Mozambique
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism
Date this Brief Prepared         March 31, 1999
Appraisal Date                   March 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 1999
1.      Country and Sector Background -          With a nominal per-capita income of
US$210 (1998), Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world.    Peace
and political stability, progress in structural reforms, continued aid
inflows, and good weather, however, have contributed to Mozambique's strong
performance during 1994-1998. In particular, the Government has made
significant progress on stabilization and the financial sector reform agenda:
the state-owned    Banco Comercial de Mo6ambique was privatized in July 1996
and Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento in September 1997. Mozambique has
also recently embarked on comprehensive reforms of the Government's budgetary
management as well as of the tax and trade systems. The privatization program
for state-owned enterprises is one of the largest and most successful in
Africa, and the Government is working towards the liberalization of petroleum
distribution, and seeking private management of ports and railways and water
companies.
2.      In 1998 the rate of inflation was brought down to nearly zero, its
lowest level since 1987. Sound fiscal and monetary policy, low import prices,
and increased food production were the main contributing factors. Real GDP
grew by around 11 percent, led by an excellent agricultural crop, along with
strong growth in the industrial, transportation, and service sectors. In the
medium term, Mozambique is targeting a non-energy GDP growth rate at over
seven percent led by domestic and foreign investment and agricultural exports,
and inflation rates below 10 percent.
3.      Notwithstanding these substantial achievements in macroeconomic policy
and in privatization over the last five years, the private sector faces many
limitations, including inadequate technical skills, insufficient access to
finance, and weak supporting institutions. These constrain the supply
response to the improved macroeconomic environment. Programs are needed to
address these constraints and to assist in "kick-starting" new economic
activities. A central aim of the Enterprise Development Project will be to
use focused, targeted efforts to build technical capabilities, provide
finance, and develop business delivery services for firms.
4.      Project Objectives - The Project will help broaden the base of private



participation in Mozambican economic growth. This would be achieved by: (i)
boosting the competitiveness of Mozambican private firms by strengthening
their access to, and use of, support services external to the firm; (ii)
providing a more efficient market for training and capacity building services
and establishing forward and backward linkages to existing and new local and
foreign buyers and investors; (iii) enhancing access to term finance by both
first-time and other borrowers; and (iv) helping to strengthen the
capabilities of key agencies.
5.      Project Description - The project (US$33 million financed by IDA) will
consist of three mutually reinforcing components aimed at reducing constraints
to enterprises' and institutions' development. Project components will
include:
Technical learning in firms program to assist private Mozambican firms build
up their technical capabilities through the utilization of matching grants;
Financing facility to provide medium term financing for investment assets for
private sub-borrowers in the industry, agro-processing, tourism,
transportation, construction and services sectors;
Institutional capacity building program to enhance the capabilities of private
and public institutions to deliver business support services.
6.      Strategy/Process - The Project is being developed in close consultation
with multiple Government, donor and private sector counterparts and
stakeholders. A working group convened during project preparation and
included these various parties. The Government's strategy for project
preparation is to: (i) seek input and feedback from stakeholders at each step
of project processing; (ii) establish a Government representative group and
integrate the group into the project design process of the project through
joint reviews of project documents; (iii) identify private sector and donor
organizations key to the project and integrate them equally into the project
preparation process; and (iv) conduct firm-level interviews to ensure
consistency between project design and firm needs. From the working group a
PoDE Steering Committee would be established to oversee the implementation of
the project.
7.      Project Implementation - The overriding principle guiding the
institutional and implementation arrangements for the Project is to delegate
the maximum feasible operational responsibility and independence to selected
agencies and managers implementing the Project components. Overall
responsibility for the implementation and coordination of the Project will be
entrusted to the PoDE Steering Committee under the purview of MICTUR.
8.      Project Sustainability - The sustainability of the Project will
critically depend on the success of the cost-sharing grant scheme in
catalyzing a market for business services; the receptivity of public agencies
to easing regulatory obstacles; the assessment, supervision, and repayment
performance under the credit facility; the risk assessment and financial
performance of banks; and the viability of the export processing zones.
Continued support for the program will depend on positive evaluations received
from beneficiaries and fulfillment by the implementing agencies and
participating banks of performance indicators defined in the Project
Implementation Plan.
9.      Lessons Learned - Key elements of the Project design draw on lessons
learned from previous IDA-financed projects: (i) a simple project design:
-2 -



i.e., compatibility with political realities and institutional absorptive
capacity of Government agencies. The scope and design of the project will be
kept realistic and flexible to take into account existing and changing local
conditions; and (ii) stakeholder involvement in design and execution of the
project and development of local expertise. Experience dictates that local
ownership of projects results in a better definition of the constraints faced
by the private sector and the initiatives to address them, effective project
execution, and sustained achievement of project objectives.
10.             The design of the Project components also incorporates global
lessons of experience as to what kind of support for the private sector is
workable. Specifically: (i) initiatives to foster technical learning in
firms need to be firmly embedded in the private marketplace: private firms
learn best from other private firms (buyers, vendors of specialist services
and other inputs) - and they learn best when they themselves have recognized
the value of these services, as demonstrated by their willingness to pay some
of the costs of learning; and (ii) there is enormous diversity within the
private sector - and both financing and technical learning initiatives need to
be designed in ways which are responsive to this diversity. Enterprise
support programs which fail to reflect these differences end up offering
little of value to any firms at all. At the same time, boxing firms into
excessively segmented programs risks foregoing the opportunities for larger
and smaller firms to link and learn from one another, and for firms
progressively to improve technical capability, and move into more demanding
markets.
11.     Poverty Category - This Project does not contain a program of targeted
interventions and therefore does not have a poverty category per se. The
Project, however, is expected to alleviate poverty through sustainable
employment generation resulting from increased economic activity.
Consequently, the Project supports the medium-term anti-poverty strategy of
the Government and IDA.
12.     Environmental Aspects - The Project is not expected to present any
specific environmental risk although IDA funds may finance investments that
may result in adverse environmental impact. Parallel review procedures would
be developed to ensure participating banks screen proposed sub-projects and
sub-borrowers carry out appropriate environment assessments for each sub-
project. Prior to sub-project approval, PFIs will verify that the sub-project
meets the environmental requirements of appropriate national and local
authorities and are consistent with applicable IDA environmental policies.
13.     Program Objective Categories - The project would primarily contribute to
the private sector development, financial intermediation, and institutional
development categories.
14.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
-3-



Mr. Simon Gray
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-4011
Fax:   (202)522-1198.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 14, 1999.
- 4 -



