Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo. 18815-MZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19 2 MILLION
(US$26 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR THE
ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 29, 1999
Private Sector and Finance Unit
Country Departnent 2
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1, 1999)
Currency Unit         Metical (Mt)
Mt 12,965        =    US$1
US$0.000077      =    Mtl
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOM        Bank of Mozambique
CBC        Capacity Building Component
COD        Credit Operations Department
CMBP       Coastal and Marina Biodiversity Project
CPI        Investment Promotion Center (Centro de Promo,co para o Investimento)
CTA        Commission of Economic Associations
DFID       Department for Institutional Development
EPZ        Export Processing Zone
FC         Financial Component
FCO        Firm Competitiveness Office
FZ         Free Zone
IERP       Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project (IDA Credit 2081)
IPEX       Institute for the Promotion of Exports (Instituto para a Promo,ao de Exporta,oes)
LPO        Linkage Program Office
MC         Management Contractor, Technical Learning in Firms Component
MFP        Ministry of Finance and Planning
MICTUR   Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism (Ministerio da Indudstria, Comercio et Turismo
MOZAL   Mozambique Aluminum
PFI        Participating Financial Institution
PoDE       Projecto para o Desenvolvimento Empresarial
PSC        PoDE Steering Committee
PSDU       Private Sector Development Unit, MICTUR
PFI        Participating Financial Institution
RBSI       Regional Business Support Initiative
RPED       Africa Regional Program for Enterprise Development
SMEDP    Small & Medium Enterprise Development Project (IDA Credit 2082)
SSI        Sector-Specific Initiatives
' AO       Training Advisory Office
T1LC       Technical Learning Component
UA'SP      Unidade de Apoio ao Sector Privado
Vice PresMdent                   Callisto Madavo
Acting Country Manager/Director : Philippe H. Le Houerou
Sec-tor Manager                  Demba Ba
LTeam l,eader               :     Brian Levy/Simon Gray/Marilyn Manalo



Mozambique
Enterprise Development Project
(Projecto para o Desenvolvimento Empresarial - PoDE)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .................................4
C. Project Description  Summary ..................................................................5
1. Project components ..................................................................5
2. Institutional reforms supported by the project ................................................................8
3. Benefits and target population .........................8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .............................................................9
5. Procurement arrangements ................................................................ 14
6. Disbursement arrangements ................................................................                               14
7. Accounting, financing reporting and auditing arrangements ........................................ 15
8. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements ................................................................   16
D. Project Rationale ................................................................                                                  16
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ....... 18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...................................................... 18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................................ 20
E. Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                           20
1. Economic ................................................................ 20
2. Financial ................................................................                                               21
3. Technical ................................................................                                               22
4. Institutional ................................................................ 22
5. Social ................................................................                                                  22
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                22
7. Participatory approach ......................                                                                            22
F. Sustainability and Risks ......................                                                                                      22
1. Sustainability .............. . . . .. . . . .... 22
2. Critical risks .........                                                                                                 23



G. Main Loan Conditions ..........................                            24
1. Effectiveness conditions .......................... 24
2. Implementation conditions .......................... 24
H. Readiness for Implementation ..........................                    24
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................                   24
ANNEXES
Annex 1.  Financial Summary
Annex 2.  Project Design Summary
Annex 3.  The Challenge of Private Sector Development in Mozambique
Annex 4.  Technical Learning in Firms Component
Annex 5.  Financial Component
Annex 6.  Institutional Capacity Building Component
Annex 7.  Estimated Project Costs and Financing
Annex 8.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 9.  Financial Management
Annex 10. Economic Analysis
Annex 11. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 12. Documents in the Project File
Annex 13. Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Annex 14. Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 15. Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD 29996



Mozambique
Enterprise Development Project
(Prolecto para o Desenvolvimento Empresarial - PoDE)
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Date: December-29,1l999                             Team Leader: Brian Levy/Simon Gray/Marilyn Manalo
Country Manager/Director: Phyllis Pomerantz        Sector Manager/Director : Demba Ba
Project ID: MZ-PE-49874                             Sector: Private Sector and Finance
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan       Theme(s): Private sector development
Poverty Targeted Intervention:        Yes [x]I No
Project Financing Data
[I     Loan   [x ]  Credit          G Grant    [3  Guarantee    [E  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$26 million):
Proposed terms:   I ] To be defined    Fx] Multi currency     [   S Single currency
] ]  Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [ ]   LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):          10
Years to maturity:             40
Commitment fee:            Not to exceed 1/2 of I percent
per annum
Service charge:            /4 of I percent per annum on
outstanding principal
.~~~~~~I     I    ... ...   ..4YV
Ji" ~ ~ ~ ......... ...    K        .,,.4...
IDA                                    7.6             ~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~18.4  26.0
Government                                               0.5               0.0               0.5
Beneficiaries                                            4.0               2.8               6.8
Parallel financing                                       4.3              10.0              14.3
Total:                                                  16.4              31.2             47.6
Borrower:      Republic of Mozambique
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:    Ministry of Trade, Industry and Tourism
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
__,..                                                    ._
Annual                           2.1          3.9          5.5         7.0          4.9          2.6
Cumulative                       2.1          6.0         11.5        18.5         23.4        26.0
Project implementation period: 1999-2004
Expected effectiveness date: March 2000             Expected closing date: June 30, 2005
Implementing agency: MICTUR
Contact person:      Mr. Luis Sitoe
Address:             Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism, Av. 25 de Setembro 1502, Maputo, Mozambique
Tel: 431418                   Fax: 431418                   E-mail: Isitoe@mictur.imoz.com



Page 2
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Project development objective (see Annex 2)
The Project's overall objective will be to help broaden the base of private participation in
Mozambican economic growth. This would be achieved by: (i) boosting the competitiveness of
Mozambican private firms by strengthening their access to, and use of, support services external
to the firm; (ii) providing a more efficient market for training and capacity building services and
establishing forward and backward linkages to existing and new local and foreign buyers and
investors; (iii) enhancing access to term finance by both first-time and other borrowers; and (iv)
helping to strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism, the
Investment Promotion Center, and business organizations with potential to improve the business
environment.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 2)
Project benefits would be measured through an assessment of the:
* demand for participating firms' products domestically and internationally as reflected by
increased production, investments, exports, and new job creation within participating finns;
* impact of training and capacity building services on enterprise productivity;
* services delivered by participating public and private agencies; and
* participating banks' increasing responsiveness to lending medium-term resources to private
enterprises as a result of high levels of repayment perfonnance of borrowers and subsequent
profitability of banks.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see
Annex 2)
Document number: IDA/R97-157    Date of latest CAS discussion: December 18, 1997
This Project will support the CAS objective of "promoting broad-based private sector-led
growth" by facilitating the participation of an increasing number of Mozambican firms in the
growth process.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
Mozambique has successfully undertaken a highly ambitious program of "first-generation"
economic reforms. As a result, the overall macro-economic environment currently is highly
favorable. Inflation decreased (down from 70 percent in 1994 to effectively zero in 1998 as a
result of tight fiscal and monetary policies), the exchange rate stabilized, and food production
increased. Also, the Government implemented an ambitious structural refonn program: price
controls were eliminated, non-tariff barriers were lifted, and the exchange rate became market
detennined. With the privatization and liquidation of over 800 enterprises (out of 1,250), public
enterprises' share of industrial output fell from over 66 percent in 1990 to below 25 percent by
1997. GDP grew by over 10 percent annually in each of 1997 and 1998.
Though growth stimuli remain strong, the currently favorable conditions represent a recent
reversal of an exceptionally difficult, long-term historical legacy of colonial domination, a



Page 3
disastrous subsequent experiment with central planning, and civil war. Mozambique's difficult
historical legacy is evident both in the unpropitious structure of its domestic private sector --
fragmentation, small size, and inward-orientation - and in continuing micro-level obstacles to
doing business. In addition, the environment for technical learning in Mozambique is extremely
under-developed. With little exposure to technological innovation and limited access to
information flows, the Mozambican private sector is at a significant disadvantage with respect to
the latest manufacturing techniques, industry marketing trends, and modem management
practices. This raises the risk that, once the momentum of recovery slows, continuing economic
growth will be dependent on a small number of mega-projects initiated by foreign investors, and
will increasingly be perceived as narrowly-based both regionally and in terms of domestic
ownership (Annex 3).
In order both to sustain rapid economic growth, and to broaden the base of private sector
participation, the Government is committed to a "second generation" program of reforms to
address a wide variety of continuing weaknesses in its business environment. Following the
completion of a study prepared by the International Finance Corporation and the Foreign
Investment Advisory Services in 1996 on "Mozambique - Administrative Barriers to Investment:
The Red Tape Analysis," an inter-ministerial working group was created to implement an action
matrix to track reform initiatives. Measures to reform policies, practices, and institutions were
taken. These include revisions to the commercial and industrial policies and the textile and
clothing sector strategy; modifications to the labor and land laws; business registration, licensing
and reporting requirements; import procedures; and the transformation of the Investment
Promotion Center from a regulatory body to a promotional and facilitative agency. On-going
work includes: further simplification of the regulatory environment (for example, commercial
code and the industrial licensing law reform and the introduction of alternative resolutions to
disputes). Other on-going and proposed Government projects, including the Economic
Management Reform Operation, Railway and Port Restructuring Project, Roads and Coastal
Shipping Project and the National Water Development Project are addressing the required
investments in infrastructure, achieved in part by increasing the role of the private sector in the
provision of infrastructural services.
In the finance sector, following the restructuring of the central bank and the privatization of state-
owned banks, there are now more effective monetary controls, a more diversified and competitive
system, and the availability of basic banking services. With the dramatic improvement in the
macro-economic environment and an interest rate structure more conducive to term lending,
several Mozambican banks are beginning to seriously consider expanding their lending activities.
During the 12 months ending September 1998, average lending rates per the Bank of
Mozambique (BOM) statistics, dropped from 34 percent to 25 percent in nominal terms, while
average deposit nominal rates dropped about 6 percent to 8.8 percent. Although some banks are
still reducing their rates on new lending to 20-22 percent, interest rates remain high in real terms.
Bankers, however, do not see these interest rates as adding much risk to term lending because
they are of the view that the true level of inflation if measured on a broad basket of services
inclusive of the non-monetized sector is about 10 percent, bringing real term lending rates to
reasonable levels.
Lending interest rates may be holding at artificially high levels relative to the cost of funds due to
credit ceilings which place nominal limits on the amount of defined credit each bank can extend.
However, virtually all term lending has been excluded from the ceilings. This keeps spreads
above the 6 to 8 percent several large banks believe they need to be profitable at higher loan
deposit ratios. As term lending is viewed as more risky than short term lending, it may have an
indirect effect on long term interest rates as well. The Authorities plan to further liberalize credit



Page 4
ceilings in 1999 and to eliminate them in the year 2000.
The credit disciplinary environment remains a serious problem and a previous "culture of non-
repayment" is proving difficult to eradicate. System-wide, non-performing loans (NPLs) are
estimated at 15 percent of total portfolio and they have reportedly increased during 1998. Some
bankers attribute the reported increase to significantly improved banking supervision and
tightened regulations with respect to defining NPLs. Also, the slow and undependable judicial
system directly contributes to a problematic credit disciplinary environment. Nonetheless,
bankers believe risks of non-repayment are significantly decreasing as environment risk is
decreasing and useful formal and informal credit information systems have come into operation.
With the improvement in market conditions, considerable medium term lending is already taking
place. However, the vast bulk of the term lending is for periods of 2 years or less and is
predominantly available to large borrowers. Deposits of one year or more represent a very small
portion of total deposits at this juncture and banks are reluctant to lend for more than one year on
the basis of short-term deposits because of concerns on interest rates and liquidity risk. Bankers
are unanimous (i) in their opinion that the demand for 2-to 5-year credit is substantial and
growing and (ii) in their desire to increase their own term lending to the extent they have an
appropriate funding base.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The "second generation" program of reformns outlined above calls for a sustained long-term
commitment across multiple fronts. The immediate challenge is to make sufficient progress in
addressing the obstacles so that, period-by-period, progressively more private actors can share in
the fruits of economic growth. Given Mozambique's institutional weaknesses, one key strategic
choice is that IDA help support this reform agenda through a variety of distinct initiatives, each of
which has the potential to achieve progress in some specific domain.
The present project thus comprises just one element of a broader program of pro-private sector
reform: capacity building -- of private firms (by enhancing their access to finance, technical, and
training services), and of selected Government and non-governmental agencies which interact
most intensively with private firms. Assistance will focus on supporting private firms by:
enhancing their competitiveness domestically and internationally, increasing their access to
appropriate training services, facilitating supply linkages with joint-venture or foreign-owned
firms, and meeting firms' investment and financing requirements. Accompanying these support
activities would be assistance to Government agencies to enable them to better provide
professional business facilitation and promotion services to private firms and to identify and ease
bureaucratic rigidities which contribute to high business costs for Mozambican entrepreneurs.
Other reform vehicles will complement PoDE in the promotion of regulatory simplification and
investment in infrastructure (including infrastructural sector reforms to promote private
participation).



Page 5
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see the Table 1, Annexes 4 through 7 for detailed description and cost
breakdown).
A. Technical Learning in Firms Component (TLC)
This component would focus on building the technical capabilities of majority
Mozambican-owned firms, in manufacturing and services supporting manufacturing and exports
(including tourism). It comprises three sub-components: the Firm Competitiveness Office
(FCO), the Training and Advisory Office (TAO), and the Linkage Program Office (LPO).
(i) Firm Competitiveness Office. The objective of this office will be to boost the
competitiveness of private firms doing business in Mozambique by supporting technology
transfer, and to strengthen their access to, and use of, support services external to the firm.
The primary means of achieving this objective will be to provide cost-sharing grants to firms,
in order to part-fund the costs of using outside services and travel. All grants will be on a 50
percent cost-sharing and reimbursable basis.
(ii) Training and Advisory Office. This sub-component seeks to address the constraints that the
market does not provide a sufficient supply of business and technical training and firms do
not yet take full advantage of external training opportunities. The objectives of this office
would be to support the development of an active business and technical training market in
Mozambique. Cost sharing grants, on a 50/50, reimbursable basis, will be made available to
qualified trainers to provide training services which support the PoDE focal sectors. These
training services will include: existing local or overseas developed training courses for which
a local market has not yet developed, and/or additional training courses for which a market
demand can be demonstrated through local market research or feedback from within the local
private sector.
(ii)Linkage Program Office. The objective of this office will be to facilitate supply linkages
between Mozambican supplier firms and joint-venture or foreign-owned firms, where
decisions to purchase goods and services are taken within Mozambique. The office will
facilitate the process of re-orienting local supplier firms to the international standards of
performance expected by such purchaser firms.
These sub-components are related to one another in the following ways:
*  All three foster technical leaming through the private marketplace. The LPO directly links
buyers and suppliers. The FCO and TAO empower purchasers of services, allowing them to
choose what services make best sense for them, and allowing them to select their own service
providers - and thereby strengthening the market for business development services. The
cost sharing features of the FCO and TAO (firms themselves must pay 50 percent of the cost
of services they use) ensures that the demand for technical learning is credible.
*  The FCO and the TAO target different segments of the private sector: the FCO focuses on
firms that already have achieved an initial baseline of planning, technical and financial
capability; the training supported by the TAO will benefit not just established SMEs but also
the smallest firms who are difficult to support on a one-to-one basis, and for whom generic
training in basic business skills can yield substantial returns.



Page 6
*  Management is delegated to the newly appointed TLC Management Contractor (MC), who
has substantial international experience in providing technical and marketing services to
firms. The joint management of the three sub-components by a single contractor will
facilitate information sharing, make it easier to guide firms towards appropriate services,
foster evolution of firms from one program to another - and take advantage of potential
economies of administration. This initiative is time-bound, i.e. intended to strengthen, not
substitute for, the marketplace for business services.
*  Responsibility for oversight of the three sub-components will be vested with the PoDE
Steering Committee (PSC).
B. Finance Contponent
Mozambique represents a satisfactory environment for term lending at this juncture from a
macroeconomic, interest rate, and banking institutional environment perspective. The credit
disciplinary environment, while not satisfactory, is improving. Effective demand for local
currency loans in excess of 2 years exceeds the available funding viewed as suitable for such
lending by bankers. Two financial products will be available for firmns in all sectors (excluding
trading, finance and real estate) under this component: (i) a special facility designed to provide
very small, first-time bank borrowers with loans amounting to a maximum of $15,000; and (ii) a
traditional facility to finance loans up to $300,000 for small and medium-scale borrowers.
The special facility is designed to catalyze commercial bank lending to largely indigenous and
small-scale entrepreneurs who often have considerable difficulty in obtaining a first loan as they
are viewed as high risk borrowers involving high transaction cost relative to potential revenue
generation. Parallel "quasi-equity" funding, equal to 25 percent of total project cost, will be
available through the PFI at the Government's risk. This funding will have no debt servicing
requirements during the scheduled life of the PFI sub-loan, and will, therefore, create de facto
total equity and quasi-equity of at least 35 percent of project cost which, as it is subordinated to
the bank's loan, significantly reduces lender risk. Under this arrangement, the borrower will have
a major incentive to repay the bank loan on time as the 25% quasi equity would become a grant to
the borrower upon full repayment of the loan. Funding under both facilities would be available to
finance investment assets including permanent working capital for private sub-borrowers in all
sectors (including industry, agro-processing, tourism, transportation, construction and services).
Funds relating to approved sub-projects would be made available to PFIs in meticals without
foreign exchange risk at the market-based average interest rate paid for six month deposits, to be
adjusted quarterly. Sub-loans would be for periods of 2-1/2 to 7 years with a maximum grace
period of one year. Interest rates to sub-borrowers would be freely determined by the PFIs,
variable and adjusted quarterly.
C Institutional Capacity Building Component
This component is designed to address two key objectives: (i) enhancing the capabilities of
private and public institutions to deliver business support services; and (ii) supporting
Government agencies in their transformation process from maintaining control functions to
providing business facilitation and promotion services, including improving their capability to
identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities. Capacity building assistance will be extended to the
Investment Promotion Center (CPI), the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism
(MICTUR), and the Commission of Econ'omic Associations (CTA). Parallel funding proposals
are being considered for initiatives focussed on solidifying sectoral contributions to economic
growth and development.



Page 7
(i) Investment Promotion Center (CPI). This sub-component will: (i) support CPI's investment
promotion and facilitation activities; and (ii) support the Development of Export "Free
Zones" in Mozambique including: capacity building assistance, together with the
Environment Ministry, with respect to conducting environmental impact assessments and
activities related to industrial permitting and compliance monitoring; and structuring
environmental requirements for inclusion in the financial models and in FZ tender
documents.
(ii) Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism (MICTUR). The Project will support the
Ministry's objectives of addressing continuing weaknesses in the business environment and
will enhance its role as a channel for dialogue with the private sector, in the development and
delivery of business facilitation and promotion services, and in regulatory reform (including
commercial code reform). Studies on, for example, the collateralization and transfer of
immovable property in urban areas; metrology, standards, testing and quality control in light
of the regional capacity and performance; other measures that will enhance private
investment and improve the enabling environment for these activities will be conducted, and
the resulting recommendations would be translated into concrete policy and legislative
proposals.
(iii)Regional Business Support Initiative (RBSI). Another initiative to stimulate broad based
economic and private sector growth is the RBSI. This component will seek to build and
strengthen geographically-focused member-based business organizations, motivated by a
shared vision of developing the local economy and engaged in a common program of action
for realizing that vision.
(iv) Sector-Specific Initiative (SSI).  To broaden and sustain the base of private sector
participation in continuing economic growth, this component will aim to develop networks of
buyers, producers, traders and support institutions in up to three identified sectors of
economic activity. The project will also support proactive, sector-specific, business advisory
services for Mozambican firms. Parallel funding for this initiative is being considered by
other donors.



Page 8
Table 1. Estimated Project Cost and Financing
1.0 Technical Learning in Firms                         13.9        29.1         6.0        23.5
1.1 Firm Competitiveness Office    Capacity building,  5.9        12.4        2.0          8.0
grants, project
management
1.2 Training and Advisory Office    Capacity building,  6.3       13.2        2.8         10.8
grants, project
management
1.3 Linkage Program Office      Capacity building,    1.7         3.5         1.2         4.7
grants, project
management
2.0 Finance                                             12.7        26.8        10.0        38.4
2.1 Special Facility             Credit, grant         3.8         8.0         3.0        11.5
2.2 Traditional Facility        Credit                 3.8         8.0         3.0        11.5
2.3 Unallocated                  Credit, grant        5.1         10.8         4.0        15.4
3.0 Capacity Building                                   17.4        36.6         7.0        26.8
3.1 Investment Promotion Center   Policy, institution  9.9        20.8         4.7        18.0
bldg., project
management
3.2 MICTUR                      Policy, institution   1.2         2.5          1.2        4.5
building, project
management
3.3 Regional Business Support                         1.1         2.4          1.1         4.3
Center
3.4 SectorSpecific Initiative                         5.2         10.9         0.0         0.0
4.0 Project Implementation                               1.2         2.5         0.6         2.20
Unallocated                                              2.4         4.9         2.4         9.1
Total                                                   47.6       100.0        26.0       100.0
2. Institutional reforms supported by the project
PoDE will address 3 capacity building objectives: (i) enhancing the capabilities of private firms in
manufacturing and services supporting manufacturing and exports (including tourism); (ii)
developing the capabilities of providers of business support services; (iii) supporting Government
agencies in providing business facilitation and promotion services and improving their capacity to
identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities.
3. Benefits and target population
Benefits - Following extensive consultation with Government officials, leaders and members of
the private sector and a survey of 150 firms carried out by the Africa Regional Program for
Enterprise Development (RPED), it is clear firms face constraints relating to the development of
business strategies, technical know-how, markets, finance, and Government regulations. By
addressing these constraints, this project will improve the competitiveness of private Mozambican



Page 9
firms in the manufacturing, agro-processing, and handicraft sectors. This would result from: (i) a
more robust technical learning environment for private sector firms; (ii) a deeper financial system
supporting technological upgrading in private enterprises and investments through the provision
of long-term loans; and (iii) a more capable set of institutions delivering support services to
private businesses.
Target population - The primary target population will be: (i) approximately 200 small- and
medium-sized businesses that are currently exporting or show potential to export (at least 20
percent of firms supported should have been established in 1995 or later and at least 30 percent
should operate outside Maputo); (ii) at least 30 local firms that could become suppliers to larger
foreign investors that are operating within the country; and (iii) local firms supplying the
domestic market, especially the very many small firms likely to benefit from training. The
secondary population to benefit from the project will be the employees of these firms, the firms
and individuals that benefit from these employees' income, and the firms that provide inputs and
services to the exporting firms.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Executing Agency:            MICTUR
Project Coordination:        PoDE Steering Committee
Implementation Period:       5 years, January 2000 through December 31, 2004
PoDE Organizational Structure
MICTUR
PSC                      UASP(UASP
(Public, private sector            Director)
representatives)
, Information Flow
FCO/TAOJLPO                  FINANCE                  Institutional Capacity
(MC)                   (BOM,UASP)                      Building
. _        _           .                ~~~~~~~~~(CPI, MICTUR, MC)
+_Reporting Relationship
Information Flow



Page 10
The overriding principle guiding the institutional and implementation arrangements for the
Project is to delegate the maximum feasible operational responsibility and independence to
agencies and managers selected to implement the Project components. Overall responsibility for
the implementation and coordination of the Project will be entrusted to the PoDE Steering
Committee (PSC)1 under the purview of MICTUR. The recently appointed Unidade de Apoio ao
Sector Privado (UASP) will serve as the administrative arm of the Steering Committee and will
be charged with ensuring adequate overall financial and administrative support to the designated
implementing agencies of the Project components. Operational responsibilities for the Technical
Learning in Firms Component and the Finance Component will rest with the Management
Contractor and the Bank of Mozambique, respectively. The implementation of the Capacity
Building Component will rest with the Investment Promotion Center and MICTUR for their
respective component. Work under the Sector Specific Initiative and the Regional Business
Support Initiative will be coordinated by the Management Contractor. The sector specific
initiative will be separately managed under parallel financing arrangements. A Project
Implementation Plan, prepared by the PSC in consultation with IDA, provides a detailed
description of each project component, the institutional and implementation responsibilities, and
guidelines for the PSC, UASP and component managers to fulfill their roles effectively.
Government. MICTUR, the Government's representative, has formally delegated project
responsibilities to the PoDE Steering Committee.
PoDE Steering Committee. The PSC consists of four representatives each from the public and
private sectors. The demands on it during the start-up phase of the Project are expected to be
substantial requiring the delegation of some of its roles and responsibilities to a PSC Director. A
Director would be appointed for one year, with the possibility of an extension depending upon
how the work program evolves. The functions of the PSC would be to:
i  assist the Management Contractor in resolving ambiguities and uncertainties associated with
initial start-up of the scheme;
* provide the strategic direction of PoDE and ensure that the patterns of support for the private
sector (by region, size and sector) are consistent with the Project objectives;
*  review and approve all matching grants requests (i) costing over US$100,000; and (ii) from
beneficiaries that have reached a cumulative threshold of US$100,000 on prior grant support
under the Technical Learning Component. For beneficiaries falling under (ii), the PSC has
the option of approving additional grants, up to the US$200,000 ceiling, without prior review
(and based on the approval already given when the US$100,000 threshold was crossed);
* under the Technical Learning Component, receive and review quarterly reports to ensure that
the decisions and processes of the Management Contractor are consistent with the eligibility
and monitoring criteria specified in the Project Implementation Plan. In the event of poor
performance on the part of the contractor, the PSC, in consultation with IDA, will have the
right to take appropriate remedies;
*  for the Technical Learning Component, review appeals for a reversal of the contractor's
decision made by any applicant and bring these appeals to the attention of IDA for their
review; and revoke an approval already granted in the event that fraudulent information has
been provided within an application;
*  meet obligations to exercise due diligence and ensure proper procurement, disbursement,
accounting and financial auditing systems are established. It is anticipated that, beyond
IComprising representatives from: the Commission of Economic Associations (four drawn from industry,
service, commerce and finance sectors), Bank of Mozambique, Investment Promotion Center, Ministry of
Planning and Finance, and the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism.



Page I 1
helping to ensure that these systems are established in a timely way, operate efficiently, and
generate the information the PSC needs to perform its strategic role, the PSC and its Director
will not have direct operational responsibility for these systems;
* for the Technical Learning in Firms Component, the Steering Committee would (only if
necessary, and at intervals no shorter than six months) prepare proposals justifying changes to
the operating directives of the Management Contractor for IDA's consideration. Upon receipt
of IDA's "no objection", it would send written directions to the Management Contractor as to
the ways (if any) in which the contractor should redirect its efforts; and
*  authorize, following consultations with IDA, the reallocation of resources across the various
components of the project as lessons emerge as to patterns of demand and developmental
impact.
Unidade de Apoio ao Sector Privado. The UASP, will be headed by the UASP Director and
supported by staff, some seconded from MICTUR. It will: (i) provide procurement support to the
PSC in the establishment of the Technical Learning in Firms Component; (ii) obtain the
procurement and disbursement plans from the implementing agencies and liaise with BOM to
ensure sufficient funding in the special account and prompt disbursement; (iii) transmit all
requests for IDA's approval; (iv) receive from the implementing agencies, review, and transmit to
the PSC, the Government and IDA all quarterly progress, audit, mid-term, and implementation
completion reports; (v) carry out all support functions to the PSC; and (vi) serve as the credit
administrator for the Finance Component under the supervision of the BOM (a listing of
responsibilities under the Finance Component is provided below).
Management Contractor. The Technical Learning in Firms Component will be administered by
the Management Contractor. The Management Contractor is a firm with substantial international
experience in providing technical and marketing services to firms and will work under a term
contract. The term contract signals that the initiative is time-bound and intended to strengthen, not
substitute for, the marketplace for business services. The component will have three sub-
components, the Firm Competitiveness Office, Training and Advisory Office, and the Linkage
Program Office, which will foster technical learning through the private marketplace. These sub-
components will be jointly managed by the Management Contractor, a manager and a deputy
manager for each sub-component.
In response to firms' request for technical capacity building services, the functions of the
Management Contractor would be to:
*  advise firms in preparing programs designed to meet firms' capacity building objectives and
based on the specific focus of each sub-component;
*  ensure that services are geared towards what firms need, are focused on firms which can
make the most effective use of the services, and are offered in a "private sector friendly" way
(for example, under the TAO, a firm's overall program of support could be subdivided down
to the size of the smallest feasible deliverable with reimbursement made for each sub-part;
another option would be to follow group delivery mechanisms);
*  based on the defined eligibility criteria for beneficiaries, as detailed in Annex 4, approve
grant applications for the FCO and TAO below US$100,000;
*  review and recommend for PSC's approval all matching grant requests: (i) for contracts
costing over US$100,000; (ii) from beneficiaries that have reached a cumulative threshold of
US$100,000 on prior grant support under the TLC;
*  review to ensure IDA procurement rules have been followed, and send recommendation for
approval to IDA for TLC supported contracts costing over (i) US$50,000 or more when the
service provider is an individual consultant, or (ii) US$100,000 or more when the service
provider is a consulting firm;



Page 12
*  ensure prompt payments to beneficiaries; strict reimbursement standards, including a
turnaround time of not more than 5 days, will be followed;
*  ensure that the strategic direction of the TLC and necessary recommendations made to the
PSC to adjust the parameters of the sub-components are consistent with Project objectives;
*  submit quarterly reports of all sub-components, including all grant approvals, to the PSC for
their consideration at quarterly meetings:
* ensure proper procurement, disbursement, and financial reporting;
* promote the TLC to firms, associations, and sub-sectoral business groupings.
In addition to the above functions for the Management Contractor and the sub-component
managers, additional component-specific responsibilities are detailed in the PIP.
Bank of Mozambique. The Finance Component will be managed by the Credit Operations
Department (COD) at the Bank of Mozambique. BOM will designate UASP to serve as the
credit administrator and to handle the day-to-day management responsibilities of the facilities.
The COD will be primarily responsible for ensuring that the line of credit is accessed by
participating financial institutions (PFIs) that are solvent, well-managed, and operating based on
sound financial policies.
* The COD will confirm the eligibility of PFIs based on criteria established under this
component. All commercial banks and leasing companies licensed to operate in Mozambique
will qualify for participation based on an initial assessment of their financial strength.
Initially, the eligibility criteria includes: (i) conformity withl prudential regulation
requirements (capital adequacy, liquidity, concentration and exposure limits, reserves,
portfolio quality, loan loss provisions, accounting policies); (ii) a net profit during 1998 as
evidenced by audited accounts prepared in accord with international standards; (iii) total non-
performing loans of less than 20 percent of portfolio; and (iv) submission of a document
describing and showing to be satisfactory the PFI's term-lending organizational structure,
staff experience, policies and procedures and training program. The eligibility of PFI's will
be certified by the Banking Supervision Department and confirmed by IDA. Once eligible,
PFI's on-going eligibility to make new commitments would immediately cease if: (i)
collections on sub-loans drop to less than 85 percent of amounts coming due; (ii) a qualified
opinion is made on a PFI's audit report, required quarterly reports or annual audit reports are
not received within 45 days of their respective due dates; or (iii) they no longer meet the other
stated eligibility requirements. The Bank of Mozambique Banking Supervision Department
will be responsible for verifying to what extent candidate PFIs meet the eligibility
requirements. Following the mid-term review, additional commitments would be made only:
(i) if BOM has lifted the credit ceilings; and (ii) to PFIs who, in addition to continuing to
meet the above-mentioned eligibility criteria, finance at least one third of sub-project loan
requirements from their own funds. Once the eligibility of a PFI is confirmed, the COD will
record and communicate approval of the PFI's sub-loan to the UASP not later than 3 business
days after receipt of the application.
* The COD will promptly disburse funds for eligible expenditures under the Project and will
request replenishment of the special account based on the presentation of the required
documentation as provided in the Project's Development Credit Agreement.
UASP, as the credit administrator will:
ensure that sub-projects approved for funding by PFIs meet the PoDE Project eligibility
criteria for beneficiaries described below. Funding resources would be available to finance



Page 13
investment assets including permanent working capital for private sub-borrowers in all
productive sectors including industry, agro-processing, tourism, transportation, construction
and services, except finance, trading, and real estate. Individual borrower eligibility
requirements for the special facility for small borrowers would include: (i) no history of
previous borrowing from banks including no previous borrowing under this facility; (ii)
minimum equity requirements of 10 percent of the amount of the PFI sub-project; and (iii)
maximum borrower total assets of US$40,000. Eligibility requirements for borrowers under
the traditional component would include: (i) no outstanding loans in default; (ii) minimum
equity requirements of 25 percent of the sub-project; and (iii) a maximum US$500,000 in
total assets. The PFI, which bears the entire credit risk, will carry out an evaluation of the
economic and financial viability of the sub-project. Additional evaluations will not be
required from the UASP as this would have been done prior to the approval and submission
of the sub-loan application by the PFI. The sub-loan approval decision will be made not later
than 7 business days after receipt of the application;
* advise BOM to disburse funds to the PFIs in accordance with disbursement schedules agreed
by the PFI and the UASP. Based on preliminary disbursement schedules that accompany
each sub-loan application, PFIs will provide the UASP, on a monthly basis, with an updated
list of funding requirements for sub-loans which the UASP should instruct BOM to disburse
against during the succeeding month. This procedure will be adopted to simplify the UASP's
role. The UASP's functions would be limited to narrow administrative aspects and will not
require advance approval on individual transactions or documents as in earlier IDA-financed
operations, given that all intermediaries are private, commercially oriented, and competently
staffed at senior levels. At the earlier of nine months after subproject approval or completion
of disbursement, the PFI would be responsible for submitting full documentary support for all
disbursements for a specific subproject. The UASP would review documentation for
eligibility and insist on reimbursement from the PFI, to the extent that any ineligible or
unsatisfactorily documented expenditures are discovered. Penalties, at twice the interest rate
charged to PFIs, for amounts remaining undisbursed to sub-borrowers, or any disbursements
not in accord with the agreed requirements, and not returned within one month of the
scheduled disbursements will be imposed on PFIs;
e on all sub-borrowers, monitor and report on a quarterly basis their repayment perfonnance
and aging analysis of their arrears by PFI. Collect from PFIs their annual audited reports.
Signal to the COD and IDA the need to suspend any PFI from participating in the line of
credit once their loan collection rates fall lower than 85 percent of amounts due or annual
audit reports have not been submitted within 45 days of their due dates; and
* take full responsibility for the preparation and submission of quarterly progress reports
detailing the utilization of funds and providing implementation information by PFI: sub-
project data (type of business, sector, job creation, etc.), repayment performance; and the
implementation experience under this project component. The UASP will fully support the
independent auditor charged with the preparation of annual audit reports for the Project. It
will also liaise with the PSC for the preparation of periodic progress reports, the mid-term
review for each of the sub-components of the line of credit, and the implementation
completion report.
Investment Promotion Center, MICTUR, and the MC. The CPI and MICTUR will implement
their respective components and the MC will coordinate the implementation of the RBSI. Each
implementing agency will coordinate with the UASP on the administrative responsibility for the
funds that are allocated for these components. Each agency will be responsible for:



Page 14
*  coordinating the contracting process with UASP including the submission of procurement
requests to IDA;
*  preparing a quarterly progress report for the PSC and IDA on the progress of the sub-
components in achieving their objectives and their level of commitments and disbursements;
and
*  coordinating with the auditor in the preparation of the annual audit report for the Project.
The implementation arrangement for the Sector Specific Initiative will be defined and funded
under parallel arrangements agreed between the Government and other sponsoring donors in
consultation with IDA.
5. Procurement arrangements
The UASP will be the coordinating and responsible agent for all procurement funded by the
Project. It will handle the procurement requests according to monthly procurement schedules
submitted by each implementing agency. It will have staff who are fully familiar with Bank
procurement procedures as they will be recruited from implementing agencies of other Bank-
funded projects. In addition to the Procurement Action Plan to be developed by the Government
and incorporated in the PIP (as a condition for project effectiveness), Annexes 4-6 and the PIP
describe component-specific procurement procedures and Annex 8 summarizes the procurement
and disbursement arrangements.
6. Disbursement arrangements
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made on the basis of incurred eligible expenditures.
Each implementing agency will be responsible for furnishing the UASP with monthly
disbursement plans based on disbursement and withdrawal procedures detailed in Annexes 4
through 6, Annex 8 and the Project Implementation Plan. The expenditure categories, projected
allocation of Project proceeds, and IDA's financing percentages are also provided in Annex 8.
The UASP will coordinate all disbursement requests and will transmit these to the BOM for
disbursement.
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit account will be fully documented by
BOM. Full documentation will be transmitted to IDA except for: (i) expenditures under all
components of the TLC for (a) contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or less for
consulting firms; and (b) contracts with an estimated value of US$50,000 or less for individual
consultants; (ii) all expenditures under the FC which may be claimed on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure (SOE); and (iii) contracts for goods below US$200,000. Documents
supporting these expenditures would be retained by the MC, the UASP, and other implementing
agencies for their respective components and will be available for review as requested by IDA
supervision missions and project auditors.
A provision for retroactive financing under the Project will be included to facilitate the prompt
execution of the on-going reform work on the commercial code, which commenced under the
Bank-financed Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project and will receive continued support
under this Project. Retroactive financing will be available for eligible consulting services, up to
US$850,000 and made within 12 months after October 1999 and before loan signing. Procedures
for procurement and disbursement for the use of consultants, including the processing and
clearances will be subject to IDA's procurement and consultant guidelines.
A special account will be opened by the Govemment in the BOM under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA to facilitate the payment of eligible expenditures for goods, works and



Page 15
services under all the Project components. An authorized allocation of US$1.5 million for the
special account will cover an estimated four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA.
Upon project effectiveness, the BOM will submit a withdrawal application for an initial deposit to
the special account amounting to US$1.5 million. Subsequent deposits to the special account
-may be requested by the BOM, as needed. Replenishment of funds from IDA will be made upon
evidence of satisfactory utilization of the advance, reflected in the Statement of Expenditures
(SOE) or on full documentation for payments above the SOE thresholds. Replenishment
applications should be submitted regularly, ideally every month but not exceeding three month
intervals. If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from the special account, the
Government will be obligated to refund the cost and submit evidence with the next request for
replenishment. In addition, if the special account remains inactive for more than six months, the
Government may be requested to refund to IDA amounts advanced to the special account.
7. Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements
The UASP, with support from all implementing agencies, will be responsible for the overall
management and reporting of the principal financial resources for the Project, IDA and external
partners. A Financial Procedures Manual will document the internal control procedures to be
followed by the UASP and computerized systems will be set up to enable them to maintain
accounting records in accordance with intemational accounting standards and practices. The PSC
will review on a quarterly basis the UASP' program management report.
The UASP will keep the funds from IDA and, in due course, each other donor in separate
accounts but will move toward common procurement, financial management and auditing
procedures acceptable to all partners. Financial statements will show all expenditures and the
source of funds. For IDA funds, the UASP will maintain accounting records including meticais,
dollar and SDR movements in respect of the bank account and, in accordance with good
accounting practice, accounting records will be reconciled monthly by the UASP with the bank
statements for the account upon its receipt.
At this embryonic stage in the establishment of UASP's financial management system, UASP is
not yet ready for Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements, as discussed in the
World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September '98). Thus,
in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e., direct payment, reimbursement and special
commitment. However, the development of UASP's financial management system, in accordance
with the Financial Management Action Plan presented below, is expected to facilitate the
introduction of PMR-based disbursements within about 18 months of credit effectiveness. Salient
features of the action plan include: recruitment of and capacity building for support staff,
preparation of a Financial Procedures Manual by the newly appointed External Systems
Consultant and the Chief Accountant, establishment of a fixed assets register, monthly status of
funds report and quarterly financial reporting, and cash flow management including variance
analysis.
Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will audit program accounts annually and provide a
management letter that recommends improvements to the financial management system. Two
copies of the audit reports will be forwarded to IDA by the UASP within six months after the end
of the fiscal year. The project will finance preparation of the audit reports except the final one
which will be funded by the Government.



Page 16
8. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements
The PSC will monitor and evaluate the Project based on the structure set up for implementation
and the terms of reference for agencies within the structure. Each implementing agency will
develop instruments for monitoring its respective component while the UASP will consolidate
and analyze statistical, financial, and physical data on the implementation of the Project.
Quarterly progress reports will be prepared by the UASP and submitted to the PSC and IDA.
Independent technical quality audits for the TLC will be commissioned by the PSC and will be
based on two weeks of fieldwork, primarily field visits to a sample of firms assisted. For the first
year and a half, the TLC technical and financial audits would each be undertaken at six monthly
intervals. The monitoring and outcome indicators provided in Annex 3 will provide the PSC, the
Government, IDA and other donors with measures to determine progress and form the basis for
joint supervisions.
Forrnal supervision will take place twice a year to review implementation progress. The
Government, IDA and other donors will jointly prepare the terms of reference and will participate
in the mission. A mid-term evaluation of the Project will take place no later than 24 months after
the Credit effectiveness in accordance with terms of reference agreed upon by Government, PSC,
IDA and other donors. The PSC will be required to prepare a mid-term report detailing
implementation progress under all Project components and identifying implementation issues.
This report will be submitted to the Government, IDA and other donors not later than two months
prior to the mid-term review. During the mid-term review, in response to the implementation
issues identified, solutions will be developed, and, if required, project redesign steps will be
taken. An Implementation Completion Report will also be jointly prepared by the PSC and IDA
within six months after the closing date of the Credit.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Three options were considered and rejected. First, the Government and IDA considered focusing
this project exclusively on a credit line serving as a follow-up project to the Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Project (SMEDP). The results of the Implementation Completion Report
for that project as well as the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) review of the Bank's
PSD work in Mozambique, however, suggest that although medium-term credit is an important
constraint for many firms, other problems, such as poor technical and managerial skills and poor
worker skills in firms, also deserve immediate attention.
The second option considered a pre-shipment export finance and credit guarantee facility within
the credit component of an expanded project (which included capacity building assistance for
firms). This was rejected given the small and exceedingly inward looking characteristic of the
private sector and a generally mixed implementation record of credit guarantee schemes. Instead,
recent promising credit initiatives elsewhere in the world for reaching first-time borrowers were
adopted under the Finance Component and incorporated in the PoDE Project together with
updated methods for delivering technical services to firms under the Technical Learning in Firms
Component.
The third rejected option was to combine the capacity-building and regulatory simplification
elements of the private sector reform agenda into a single operation. The project will indeed
provide support for further diagnostic work on reducing regulatory obstacles under the Capacity
Building Component (for example, commercial code reform, collateralization and transfer of



Page 17
immovable property, etc.). But it will be a complement, not the primary vehicle, for promoting
an aggressive program of regulatory simplification. Pushing further on the latter objective was not
incorporated into the project both to keep the agenda as uncomplicated as possible, and (against a
backdrop of sometimes-controversial liberalization efforts) as a way of ensuring that the project
would unambiguously be perceived as "win-win" - as an unequivocal signal of the commitment
of the Government, IDA and other donors to support the strengthening of a competitive private
sector in Mozambique. As Section B.2. above described, the Government currently has
underway a variety of other initiatives to streamline the business environment.



Page 18
Table 2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned)
__E~~~~~~~~~.:
Implementation    Development
_________________________  _______________________    Progress  (IP)  Objective  (DO)
Medium- and long-term       Industrial Enterprise
credit constraints to       Restructuring Project             S                     S
enterprises, rehabilitation
and restructuring, including    Small & Medium
privatization, of enterprises,   Enterprise Development
administrative barriers to  Project                           S                    12
investment
Capacity building in the    Financial Sector Capacity         S                     S
Bank of Mozambique,         Building Project
commercial banks, Ministry
of Finance, financial sector
Privatization of state-owned   Third Economic Recovery        HS                   HS
banks                       Credit
Removal of red tape and     Economic Management               HS                   HS
sirnplification of import   Reform Operation
procedures
Other development
agencies                    European Commission -
Technical assistance for    Private Sector      design
institution building       Development Program   f       tI        r.ei             v.
for Mozambique -
Phase I (under            ~
development)   D
Medium- and long-term
credit constraints to       European Investment                  .~
enterprises                 Bank (under              ~~..
development)
Technical assistance to the.                                                    .
CTA
USAID
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Two key elements of design draw on lessons learned from the Industrial Enterprise Development
Project and the Small and Medium Enterprise Development Project:
2Due to unsatisfactory repayment rates



Page 19
* a simple and delegated project design: i.e., compatibility with political realities and
institutional absorptive capacity of Government agencies. The scope and design of the project
will be kept realistic and flexible to take into account existing and changing local conditions.
The Government and the Steering Committee will delegate the operational responsibilities of
the Technical Learning Component and the Finance Component to the Management
Contractor and the UASP, respectively. In addition, in consultation with IDA, the Steering
Committee will have clear levers for shifting the strategic direction of the Technical Learning
Component, if needed; and
* stakeholder involvement in design and execution of the project and development of local
expertise. Experience dictates that local ownership of projects results in a better definition of
the constraints faced by the private sector and the initiatives to address them, effective project
execution, and sustained achievement of project objectives. The Government delegated full
responsibility to the PoDE Steering Committee, a committee comprising representatives from
private enterprises and public sector agencies, to lead the development efforts on the Project.
This Committee will continue to be given formal responsibility for providing vision on the
matching grants and getting results as measured by monitorable targets. Also, where
possible, procurement of consulting services will encourage local participation.
The design of project components also incorporates global lessons of experience as to what kind
of support for the private sector is workable. Specifically:
* initiatives to foster technical learning in firms need to be firmly embedded in the private
marketplace: private firms learn best from other private firms (buyers, vendors of specialist
services and other inputs) - and they learn best where they themselves have recognized the
value of these services. Under the Technical Learning Component, this will be demonstrated
by the enterprises' willingness to pay some of the cost of learning;
* there is enormous diversity within the private sector - and both financing and technical
learning initiatives need to be designed in ways which are responsive to this diversity.
Within the context of approaches which strengthen financial sector development (i.e. avoid
subsidized interest rates, and avoid approaches which remove from banks all risks, and hence
all incentives to scrutinize creditworthiness), the incentive problems which make it difficult
for potential first-time borrowers to gain access to credit are very different from the incentive
problems which inhibit the provision of medium-term finance for established borrowers.
These differences were taken into consideration particularly in the design of the Special
Facility; it will provide quasi-equity funding to first time borrowers. In addition, the credit
delivery mechanism  has been:  (a) developed to allow  consistently sound financial
institutions to participate; and (b) simplified to allow timely access to resources to meet the
more demanding funding requirements of established and creditworthy enterprises.
Similarly, under the Technical Learning Component, the target clients, focus, and design of
the Firm Competitiveness Office and the Training and Advisory Office reflect the fact that
the learning needs of established, medium-to-large formal enterprises using complex
technology are very different from those of smaller, newer firms active in simpler lines of
business. Enterprise support programs which fail to reflect these differences end up offering
little value to firms. At the same time, boxing firms into excessively segmented programs
risks foregoing the opportunities for larger and smaller firms to link and learn from one
another, to improve technical capability, and move into more demanding markets. The
Linkage Program Office will facilitate progressively such linkages.



Page 20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The difficult decisions taken by the Government to implement its structural reform, financial
restructuring, and privatization programs and the resulting achievements (strong GDP growth,
decreases in inflation, increases in exports, restructured central bank, privatized state-owned
banks and enterprises, a CPI focussing on investment promotion, etc.) are evidence of its
commitment to providing an enabling environment for private sector and export development.
The Government requested support for its private sector development program fully recognizing
the need to continue to include local entrepreneurs in the economy's growth, to obtain political
support for their ambitious economic reform program, and the need to create jobs. The
Government also sees this project as a necessary step in maximizing the benefits to local business
from the large "mega-projects" and other foreign investments now entering Mozambique.
The creation of a joint public-private PSC to oversee the Project is a further signal of Borrower
commitment. Following a series of private sector conferences (heavily attended by Mozambican
entrepreneurs), the Government encouraged the formation of the PSC to explore what had to be
done to increase the participation of Mozambican firms in private-sector led economic growth
and development. The PSC is actively engaged, through a series of meetings (with and without
IDA participation), in defining the PoDE project components and the implementation
arrangements.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
The Bank adds value by: (i) bringing to bear on the design of both the technical and finance
components recent lessons of experience from PSD support initiatives globally; (ii) drawing upon
its in-house expertise and, through its Regional Program for Enterprise Development, the body of
research on how to increase the competitiveness of African firms; and (iii) helping to coordinate
the Project's activities with the private and public entities concerned and with other donors to
ensure they contribute towards a common goal of focused Mozambican enterprise development.
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic
Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV = US$23.7 million; ERR = 24.7 percent
The Government realizes that it faces unusual challenges in fostering private sector development.
While favorable circumstances (a successful transition to multi-party democracy, developments
toward a market-oriented economy, ongoing investments in infrastructure, its emergence as an
especially promising site for investment following South Africa's transition to a non-racial
democracy) imply that over the next few years Mozambican economic growth will be rapid and
likely in excess of 5 percent annually, the country's historical legacy raises the risk that this
growth will be narrowly-based on a few large companies. Also, the domestic private sector,
characterized as fragmented, small, and inward-oriented, has not been able to position itself to
maintain competitiveness in a global economy (including domestically against imports).
To increase the number of participants in the country's growth process, the Government
recognizes that Mozambican firms will need to close major information gaps (on production
processes, marketing, business strategy etc.). However, the prospects for success of individual
private firms depend not only on their own efforts, but on the broader business environment in



Page 21
which they are embedded. Although the business environment has improved radically over the
past five years and firms regard Government as supportive, access to credit, bureaucracy, and the
uneven quality of infrastructure have been important obstacles to firns doing business. As in all
countries, moving towards an unambiguously market-friendly business environment is a long-
term process. Through discrete interventions in this project that provide technological, financial,
and capacity building assistance to private firms and business support institutions, the
Government envisages it would make sufficient progress in minimizing various obstacles so that,
progressively more private actors can share in the fruits of economic growth.
Results from the economic analysis of the project, using a cost-benefit analysis framework,
suggest that the project is justified in net present value and economic rate of return terms (see
Annex 10) and would contribute to assisting the Government in meeting its objectives. The
project would generate an estimated NPV of US$ 23.7 million discounted at 12 percent, and an
ERR of approximately 24.7 percent. Additionally, other benefits from the project include: (i) an
improved awareness of economic opportunities which do not directly result in increased output
and employment by the supported firms; (ii) development of know-how which is put to use
beyond the enterprise supported; (iii) banks are induced to become better capitalized and
operationally sound to qualify for participation in credit lines; (iv) an increased consistency
between project design and implementation, with the private and public sector as partners in
providing the strategic direction and maximizing the responsiveness of the project management to
the private sector; (v) gains from active collaboration by the public and private sectors, through
the steering committee, in policy advocacy, (for example, in reforming business regulations;
drawing together fledgling private sector representative groups, building cohesion, and creating
advantages from mutually supportive work; establishing greater trust and respect between the two
sectors to sustain development efforts); and (vi) increased capacity in the local consulting
profession.
2. Financial
The project's financial objectives relate to: (i) implementing a process that contributes to
increasing the overall financial soundness of participating financial institutions; (ii) assisting
viable enterprises; and (iii) requiring sound financial management of the Project as a whole. The
financial management system of the project will prompt the different private and public
implementing agencies and commercial financial institutions taking part in the project to exercise
due diligence and to establish proper procurement, disbursement, accounting, and financial
auditing procedures and reporting systems. To participate in the project, financial institutions
will be required to meet eligibility criteria that demonstrate conformity with prudential
regulations, sound and profitable operations, and a performing loan portfolio. To qualify for
financial assistance, sub-borrowers will be required to make sufficient investments in their
business, demonstrate their creditworthiness by having no outstanding loans in default, and
present a feasible business venture for financing. Clients under the matching grant scheme will
be required to demonstrate their commitment to the learning process by covering 50 percent of
the cost of the technical assistance they receive.
Fiscal implications. The project is designed to minimize the fiscal impact on the Government by:
(i) requiring participating financial institutions to take full responsibility for the commercial risk
of sub-loans; (ii) implicitly compensating the Government for the foreign exchange risk to the
extent that it is reflected in market deposit rates that will be the basis for the reference interest rate
imposed on participating financial institutions; (iii) obliging the Bank of Mozambique to certify
the eligibility of participating financial institutions; and (iv) under the matching grant scheme,
extending grants on an ex-post reimbursement basis. While the Government will cover 50
percent of the technical assistance cost to firms under the Technical Learning Component, this



Page 22
represents modest national investments in activities that are expected to yield direct and indirect
positive returns and generate annual net export income in multiples greater than the original
investment.
3. Technical     Not applicable.
4. Institutional
a. Executing agencies: see Section C.4. above and Annexes 4-6.
b. Project management: see Section C.4. above and Annexes 4-6.
5. Social
The provision of finance and technical support is unlikely to have a major direct impact in terms
of social benefits to a large number micro businesses. However, it will provide short- to medium-
term indirect social benefits resulting from increased investment and production, employment
creation, generation of export earnings, and an overall stronger and broader economy.
6. Environmental assessment
The proposed project is classified as Category FI as it involves investment of Bank funds through
a financial intermediary. The Project is not expected to present any specific environmental risk
although IDA funds may finance investments that may result in adverse environmental impact.
Parallel review procedures would be developed to ensure PFIs screen proposed sub-projects and
sub-borrowers carry out appropriate environment assessments for each sub-project. Prior to sub-
project approval, PFIs will verify that the sub-project meets the environmental requirements of
appropriate national and local authorities and are consistent with applicable IDA environmental
policies.
7. Participatory approach
As Section D.4. details, the Project was designed jointly with potential beneficiaries, as
represented in the joint public-private PSC. No groups are expected to be affected negatively.
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKs
1. Sustainability
Assuming peaceful conditions hold up in Mozambique and the transition to democracy endures,
the sustainability of the project will critically depend on the success of the cost-sharing grant
scheme in catalyzing a market for business services; the receptivity of public agencies to easing
regulatory obstacles; the assessment, supervision, and repayment performance under the credit
facility; the risk assessment and financial performance of banks; and the viability of the export
processing zones.



Page 23
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 2)
RRisk                                    iskRatingt                Risk Minimization Measure
Banks do not comply with BOM regulations      S        Eligibility for banks' continued participation in the FC
to maintain sound banking practices;                   will depend on BOM's annual certification that PFIs meet
enterprises do not see merit in servicing             prudential regulations, banks' lending portfolio reflects a
their loans.                                           collection rate of 85 percent.
Government is not committed to                M        Reducing regulatory obstacles is not the main focus of the
simplifying regulations, implementing                  Project although it will be supported.
measures to remove barniers to trade, and
lowering rent seeking behavior.
Project implementation is not adequately      M         Establishment of a joint public-private steering committee;
insulated from political riuence                       arms-length implementation (with discretion delegated to
independent private contractors) e
Beneficiaines may not be resp                           ontinued support for the program will depend on positive
trainmg received and consiultantos                     evaluations received frombeneficiaries and fulfllment of
recommendations fghter  loans w   nformance indicators.
Potential foreign investors and collaborators  S       (Quick, flexible resolution to problems, aggressive
are deterred by perceived risks.                      investmnenit promotion.
Untimely payment of contributions by          M        Flexible resolutioni of problenis, close supervision and
participating beneficiaries.                           mionitoring.
Participating banks co.ntinue to respond to   S        The designi of the component incorporates favorable terms
fruis' need for long-term loans with funds             for banks including: a 10-year maturity period,interest
they mobilize and through other long-term             rates deterrnined by banks, and simplified approval
funds from competing lines of credit                   procedures.
available to them in the country.
Lending will do financial harm to banks       M        The component will be available to banks that meet initial
because collection rates are inadequate to             eligibility criteria including non-performing loans not less
achieve financial breakeven point                     than 20% of total portfolio; continued eligibility will
require that the collection rate does not fall below 85%
Capacity building measures undertaken but     M        Additional support conditional upon meeting monitoring
public/private institutions unable to fully            and performiance indicators.
implement remedial measures.
*,~~~~~~~~~~0                             g.,
RikRtn      Hg Rs)S(usata Rs)MMd    ik,    Ngiil  rLw R
R isk Rating - II (High Risk), S (Substanftial Risk), AY(Mlodest Risk), N (Negligihble or Loiv Risk)



Page 24
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* Participation agreements between the Bank of Mozambique and at least two PFIs are signed;
* Subsidiary Agreement between the Govemment and Bank of Mozambique is signed;
* Management Contractor for the Technical Learning in Firms Component is appointed;
* External auditor for the project is appointed;
* Project implementation plan is finalized and adopted;
* Financial procedures manual is developed and an accounting system is installed and
operationaL;
* Special account is opened in the BOM and IDA advised of the check signatories; Borrower's
counterpart account is also opened.
2. Implementation Conditions
*  Credit ceilings are lifted by BOM by the mid-term review for this Project.
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
The Government continues to demonstrate its commitment to the Project and has taken the
following steps:
- formally delegated project responsibilities to the PSC;
- appointed the UASP including its Director and the Chief Accountant; and
- appointed the external financial systems consultant to assist in the development of the
financial system.
Following the approval of the Project by IDA's Board of Directors, the Government will present
evidence of its fulfillment of the conditions for project effectiveness, enumerated above.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader:                 9  BrianLevy/S n o ray/MarilynManalo, AFTPS
Sector Manager:                  Demb Ba, AFTPS
Acting Country Director:         Philip



Page 25
ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Years Ending
Table 1: Financial Summary
Financing Required      Year 1      Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5      Total
Project cost
Investment costs       7.3          9.8          11.2         9.8          6.3         44.4
Recurrent costs         0.6         0.7          0.7          0.6          0.6         3.2
Total Project Costs      7.9       10.5          11.9          10.4         6.9         47.6
.... .........~.
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4    Year 5      Total
IDA                             4.8         4.7        5.8          5.7        5.0       26.0
Government                      0.1         0.1        0.1         0.1         0.1       0.5
Beneficiaries                   0.9         1.3         1.6         1.8        1.3       6.9
Parallel financing              2.1         4.4        4.4         2.8         0.5       14.2
Total                           7.9        10.5        11.9        10.4        6.9      47.6



Page 26
ANNEX 2
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
CAS Objective                                                              (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Support the promotion   Annual GD9P growth rate in  Periodic               0  Continued
of broad-based        excess of S percent per annum    econornic updates       macroeconomic and
economic and private    over the life of the Project                           political stability
sector led growth.                                                         *  Government's
commitment to
economic, financial, and
trade reformns;
*  Continued support for
private sector
development through
decreases in rent-
seeking, fraudulent
behavior
Project Development                                                        (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                 CAS Objective)
Broaden the base of   *  At least 20 percent of    Progress reports,       *  Sound policies for
private participation in  participating firms were   supervision reports by    financial sector
economic growth           established in 1995 or   implementing agencies       development, decisive
later;                                              enforcement of
prudential regulations
*   at least 30 percent of
participating firms operate                      *  Government is
outside Maputo                                      committed to simplifying
regulations,
implementing measures
to remove barriers to
trade, and lowering rent
seeking behavior
Project Outputs                                                            (Outputs to
Development Objectives)
*  Mozambican firms   *  Increased production,     Technical and financial    *  Firms and workers build
competitively         investments, sales,      audit of the prograrn       on training received, are
responded to          exports, and new jobs    commissioned by PSC;        responsive to
increasing local and  created within          survey of participating      recommendations for
international         participating firms      firms; progress reports     change, favorably rate
demand for new,                                                            and increasingly utilize
improved products                                                          available technical and
business services
*  Training agencies   *  Increase in expenditure
provided firm-        for technical training and
oriented, relevant    consultancy services
technical assistance  within Mozambican firms



Page 27
as indicated by
demonstrated -willin gness
to pay for technical and
training services accessed
under the FCO, TAO,
SSI, LPO
*  Private local and    *  At least 30 linkages       *  Independent surveys   *  Potential local and
foreign linkages        formed with joint-venture     of foreign firms on      foreign investors and
were established        or foreign-owned firmns       prospects and             partners are not deterred
engaged in exporting         successes confirm         by perceived risks
locally produced products    this change
or serving the local
market as a result of the
assistance extended under
the LCO
*  The subsector-       *   End 2000 Phase I         Progress reports, survey
specific initiative     completed: supply-side   of participating firms
added value as          assessment; market
illustrated by the      survey; clustering of
handicraft sector's    intermediaries and
increased               producers; buyers/sellers'
integration into the   meeting; sector strategy
global economy          defined
*  2001,2002,2003-
cumulative exports -
US$200,000,
US$800,000,
US$1,500,000,
respectively; number of
suppliers: 10 per annum
*  Local business       *  Business associations in    Progress reports, survey
associations            at least 5 regions operate   of participating business
increasingly            on basis of defined action   associations
contributed to          plan, and contribute to
forming the             economic and local
strategy for the        development by working
local and regional      with other local
economy                 stakeholders
*  MICTUR and CPI   *  3 roundtable discussions    Progress reports, survey
effectively             held between Government  of participating firmns
facilitated business    and private sector
entry into             resulting in a friendlier
Mozambique              business environment
* Establishment of one FZ
in Maputo and consensus
on future strategy with
respect to EPZs and FZs



Page 28
*  Adequate environmental
safeguards in EPZs
*     Banks continued   *  Collection rate of PFIs at   Progress reports from  *  BOM enforces sound
to provide medium-     least 85 percent reflecting   participating banks,     banking practices
term loans to          changed repayment         UASP                      *  Participating banks
private enterprises    culture and subsequent                                 continue to respond to
assessed as good       increase in profitability of                           firms' need for long-
credit risks           participating banks                                    term loans with funds
they mobilize and
through other long-term
funds from competing
lines of credit available
to them in the country.
*  Lending will do financial
harm to banks because
collection rates are
inadequate to achieve
financial breakeven point
Project Components
[See Annex 2 for a
detailed description.]
1.0 Technical                      13.9
1.1 FCO                            5.9               Terms of reference,      *  Firmns can meet
Consultancy services               4.4               established monitorable      consultant service
Recurrent Expenses                  1.3             targets and deliverables      payments in a timely
Vehicles                           0.1                                            manner
Equipment, furniture               0.1
1.2 TAO                            6.3               Course evaluation reports
Consultancy services               5.6
Recurrent expenses                 0.5
Vehicles                           0.1
Equipment, furniture               0.1
1.3 LPO                            1.7               Quarterly progress,
Consultancy services                1.4              supervision, mid-term,
Recurrent expenses                 0.1               completion reports
Vehicles                           0.1
Equipment, furniture               0.1
2.0 Finance                        12.7
Credit                             9.8               Quarterly reports from   *  Firms can meet debt
Grant                              0.2               participating banks          service payments in a
Beneficiary contribution           2.7                                            timely manner
3.0 Capacity Building              17.4
3.1 CPI                             9.9              Progress, supervision,    *     Capacity building
Consultancy services                8.4              mid-term, completion         measures undertaken but



Page 29
Recurrent expenses                  0.5             reports                       public/private
Vehicles                            0.2                                           institutions unable to
Equipment, furniture                0.2                                           fully implement remedial
Training                           0.6                                            measures
3.2 MICTUR                         1.2               Progress, supervision,   *  Capacity building
Consultancy services                1.0              mid-term, completion         measures undertaken but
Recurrent expenses                  0.2             reports                       public/private
institutions unable to
fully implement remedial
measures
3.3 RRSI                           1.1               Progress, supervision,   *  Capacity building
Consultancy services               0.8               mid-term, completion         measures undertaken but
Recurrent expenses                  0.2             reports                       public/private
Vehicles                           0.1                                            institutions unable to
fiully implement remedial
measures
3.4 Sector Specific                 5.2              Progress, supervision,   *  Capacity building
initiative                         4.3               mid-term, completion         measures undertaken but
Consultancy services               0.2              reports                       public/private
Recurrent expenses                  0.2                                           institutions unable to
Vehicles                           0.5                                            fully implement remedial
Equipment, furniture                                                              measures
4.0 Implementation                  1.2              Progress, supervision,   *  Capacity building
Recurrent expenses                  1.1              mid-term, completion         measures undertaken but
Vehicles                           0.1              reports                       public/private
institutions unable to
fully implement remedial
measures
5. 0 Unallocated                   2.4
Total                              47.6



Page 30
ANNEX 3
THE CHALLENGE OF PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT IN
MOZAMBIQUE
Fostering private sector development in Mozambique poses some unusual challenges. On the one
hand, an unusually favorable array of circumstances implies that over the next few years,
Mozambican economic growth will be rapid, likely in excess of 5 percent annually. On the other
hand, Mozambique's historical legacy raises the risk that this growth will be unusually narrowly-
based, with quite limited participation by the country's domestic private sector. Broadening the
base of private sector participation will require a multi-faceted strategy (of which this project is
just one element).
Growth stimuli are strong ...... Three inter-related stimuli are likely to provide the impetus for
rapid Mozambican growth into the twenty-first century. The first is a "peace dividend". By the
early 1990s, a combination of a misguided experiment with central planning, and civil war had
resulted in Mozambique's per capita GDP falling in real terms to one-quarter of its pre-
independence levels. Since that time, the debilitating civil war has been ended, peace has been
consolidated with a successful transition to multi-party democracy, and the country has moved
from a planned to a market-oriented economy. As other sub-Saharan African countries (e.g.
Ghana, Uganda) have demonstrated, this favorable reversal of economic fortune generally is
accompanied by a period of quite rapid economic growth.
The second stimulus comes from Mozambique's strategic location as Southern Africa's coastal
outlet to the world. Prior to 1975, Mozambique's three ports - Maputo, Beira and Nacala -- were
major coastal outlets for South Africa, Zimbabwe and Malawi. As of 1974, 14 million tons of
cargo transited through Maputo harbor, with over 60 percent trans-shipped by rail to and from
countries neighboring Mozambique. In 1975, 3 million tons per annum were shipped through
Beira port, well over 80 percent shipped by rail from Zimbabwe (plus additional shipments from
Malawi). Throughput in Nacala port amounted to 0.8 million tons, with the rail link to Nacala
accounting for 0.5 million tons of traffic (about 60 percent from Malawi). By the mid-1980s, as
the civil war intensified, volume shipped through all three ports collapsed. Subsequently, Beira
has recovered almost to its 1974 levels. In 1998, just over 3 million tons of traffic passed through
Maputo port - but new rail, port and toll road concessions along the Maputo Corridor, and major
associated investments, point to substantial recovery in the near future. As for Nacala, the rail link
which brought the harbor much of its traffic was destroyed in 1984, and remains out of operation
to this day, Since mid-1997, direct negotiations have been underway with a private operator that
expressed interest in a concession on the line.
The third stimulus comes from South Africa's transition to a non-racial democracy, and its
associated economic repositioning within the Southern African sub-region. During the apartheid
years, South Africa was virtually isolated from the rest of the region. Today, it perceives
prosperity in Southern Africa as vital for its own future, and is actively encouraging the South
African private sector to invest throughout the region. Within that context, Mozambique has
emerged as an especially promising site for investment - as evidenced most vividly by the fanfare
surrounding the Maputo Corridor, and the associated US$1.3 billion in the Mozal aluminum
smelter.



Page 31
..... but the Mozambican private sector is underdeveloped ...... Powerful growth stimuli such as the
above can provide strong momentum for sustained domestic private sector development, but they
need not be sufficient to ensure a broad-based supply response. In the specific case of
Mozambique, the legacy of history has burdened its private sector with an unpropitious structure:
fragmentation, small size, and inward-orientation.
Prior to independence, the Mozambican economy was tightly bound to its Portuguese colonial
masters: trade and production was structured to be complementary to - and generate rents for -
the Portuguese economy; Mozambican firms generally were Portuguese-owned. Following
independence, the country shifted to a planned economy. The vast majority of the quarter million
Portuguese resident in the country fled, and their businesses were nationalized - although (other
than so-called "strategic" industries) the businesses of those who chose to remain largely were
left untouched. In the early 1990s, Mozambique reversed course again and, in one of the most
ambitious privatization programs in sub-Saharan Africa, turned more than 800 parastatals over to
the private sector.
A 1998 survey of 153 Mozambican manufacturing firms, undertaken as preparation for this
project, reveals how this history is evident in the character of the contemporary private sector, A
first fact revealed by the survey is how small the country's private sector actually is. The survey
focused on four subsectors of manufacturing: food processing; garnents and textiles; wood and
furniture; and metal products. Aggregate data reveals that food processing alone accounted for 61
percent of total Mozambican manufacturing (this high share of food processing is typical for
countries in a very early stage of industrialization), and the remaining three subsectors an
additional 12 percent. Comparing the aggregate data with the survey results suggests that the
surveyed firms account for about two-thirds of total Mozambican production in the relevant
subsectors, and included (according to the survey enumerators) virtually all of the subsectors'
larger firms.
The patterns of ownership and history of these firms mirrors the history of private sector
development in Mozambique: about half date back to the pre-independence period; 30 percent
were established between 1975 and 1991 (one fifth of these as parastatals); the remaining 20
percent started-up once peace was re-established in the early 1990s. Forty-six of the 153 firms are
recently privatized parastatals; virtually all of the remainder have always been in the private
sector (although the state continues to have a minority equity share in some of these). One-third
of the firms are majority foreign-owned. Among the somewhat over fifty percent which were
sole proprieterships or partnerships (overwhelmingly Mozambican owned), there is a striking
diversity in the ethnicity of the owners: 41 percent are owned by indigenous Africans; 36 percent
by Asians (overwhelmingly from India, and located disproportionately in the Northern part of the
country); and 23 percent by entrepreneurs of European origin (primarily Portuguese).
The peace dividend is evident in the recent growth rates of these firms: the mean growth rate in
output (in US$) between 1995 and 1997 was over 70 percent. Note, though, that this output
growth was not matched by employment growth, which grew by less than 5 percent over the two
year period - suggesting that much of the output expansion was a recovery from very low levels
of capacity utilization. Note also that the distribution of this growth was uneven - with very rapid
growth by a minority of firms accounting for much of the increase.
For all that growth has been rapid, other indicators suggest that, once an initial bounce-back has
been achieved, the firms will find it increasingly difficult to maintain (let alone advance) their
competitive position. For one thing, the firms are overwhelmingly inward-oriented. Over two-
thirds of the firms sampled do not export at all. Among those which do export, two-thirds sell
their exports only to South Africa or other neighboring countries. Less than 10 percent of the



Page 32
sample are significant exporters into world markets - in the sense both that exports account for 20
percent or more of their sales, and that some of these exports go beyond the African continent.
For another, only 35 percent of respondents reported that they had made any significant
investment in buildings or equipment in the last three years. Since half of the firms started up
prior to 1975 - and, until very recently, have been operating in a business environment which was
unfavorable for private investment -- there clearly are many firms which operate with seriously
outdated technology.
As these patterns (and Mozambique's history) imply, for the most part the Mozambican private
sector has been bypassed by the global trend of firms to position themselves to maintain
competitiveness (including domestically against imports) in a globalized economy. Instead, (in
one of the poorest countries in the world, with a population of under twenty million) the focus of
the vast majority of even the larger firms remains on the domestic marketplace - and on efforts to
win subsidies or protection through the political arena. Clearly, Mozambican firms will need to
close major information gaps (on production processes, marketing, business strategy etc.) if they
are to be successful participants in the country's growth process - and one important goal of this
project is to facilitate efforts by firms to close these gaps. This task is complicated, though, by an
unusually wide array of constraints in the country's business environment.
....... and the business environment continues to pose some obstacles to enterprises. The
prospects for success of individual private firms depend not only on their own efforts, but on the
broader business environment in which they are embedded. A large majority of the 153 firms
surveyed confirmed that the business environment has improved radically over the past five
years, to the point that, overall, they regard Government as supportive, rather than a hindrance to
private sector development. Even so, when firms were asked what were their three largest
problems to doing business in Mozambique, they highlighted access to credit, bureaucracy, and
the uneven quality of infrastructure.
Inadequate credit was identified as one of the three most severe obstacles by 56 firms, and most
severe by 25 of these (47 firms also identify high interest rates - an artifact of monetary policy -
as one of the three most severe obstacles). Mozambique recently has achieved a far-reaching
financial reform; as Annex 5 describes, today - for the first time in many years - the country's
banking system seems to be in a healthy state, though the number of participants remains small.
Even so, of the 153 firms surveyed, only 35 percent reported having bank loans, and those that
did were mostly the larger firms: over 50 percent of firms with more than 100 employees - but
just 23 percent of those with 10-49 employees - had loans. Not only do firms perceive lack of
access to credit as a problem, banks concur that there is excess demand for term finance, which
they would meet if they had available longer-term sources of finance. The credit line included in
this project addresses this need directly.
Problems with Government bureaucracy were identified as the most severe obstacle by 33 firms,
and as one of the three most severe by an additional 63 firms. While a few specific regulatory
obstacles can be identified and warrant reform (labor laws, property laws, and rules governing
imports), as Table I shows most of the problems are described as general ("official corruption",
"bureaucratic burden", "Government regulation") rather than traceable to individual offending
rules. The remedy for this problem lies in a long-term program of civil service reform not simply
some legalistic "quick fix". In the interim, the environment appears to offer sufficient flexibility
for initiatives along the lines of those outlined in the present project to nonetheless be useful.
Inadequate infrastructure comprises a third obstacle to firms - identified as most severe by 12
firms surveyed, and as one of the three most severe by an additional 33 respondents. The extent
and patterns of these infrastructural deficits varies by region. Maputo-based firms identify roads



Page 33
as their worst obstacle; Beira-based firms highlight waste disposal and electricity; and firms in
Nampula highlight roads and electricity. In absolute terms, infrastructure worsens as one moves
north. For power, 28 percent of Maputo-based firms -- but 50 percent of those based in Beira and
fully 86 percent of those in Nampula - reported having their own generators. (The average
number of days for which firms reported significant power outages jumped from 5 per month in
Maputo, to about 20 per month in Beira and Nampula). For water, 55 percent of Maputo firms -
but 71 percent of those in Nampula, and 83 percent of those in Beira - have their own generators.
Improving infrastructure nationwide is, again, a long-term process. In the interim, focused
initiatives (such as industrial estates adjoining Mozal, or pilot export processing zones) can offer
enclaves in which competitive manufacturing production can proceed, even as the broader
deficiencies are addressed.
Table 2: Types of Problems with Government
Largest    Second    Third
problem    problem   Problem
Bureaucratic burden          I1         6          13
Land and buildings            6         5           -
Official corruption          4          7           5
Government regulations       4          3           4
Tax regulations              4          5           6
Labor regulations            3          6           2
Starting a business                     -I
Viewed through the lens of history, it is hardly surprising that the business environment continues
to pose an array of obstacles for Mozambican firms. The surprise is in the extent of dynamism
and optimism which was evident in the survey. As in all countries, moving towards an
unambiguously market-friendly business environment is a long-term process. The immediate
challenge is to make sufficient progress with each of the various obstacles so that, period-by-
period, progressively more private actors can share in the fruits of economic growth. The present
project thus comprises just one element of a broader program of pro-private sector reform.



Page 34
ANNEX 4
TECHNICAL LEARNING IN FIRMS COMPONENT
Concept and Overview
The environment for technical learning in Mozambique is extremely underdeveloped. The
mechanisms by which private firms transfer technology and raise their technical capabilities are
weak or missing. International buyers and suppliers are not visiting Mozambique on a regular
basis; so technology transfer is not occurring as part of day-to-day business transactions, as
happens so frequently in other countries. Direct foreign investment is relatively low; so
technology transfer and learning via this channel is very modest. Expert consulting services are
few-and-far between and local public and private training services are quite limited, with the
result that firms have a difficult time hiring technical expertise or conducting in-house training of
the work force. In addition to these weaknesses in firm learning mechanisms, basic technical
education for workers is inadequate -- the fornal education system is just beginning to be built
back up to its pre-war level and public vocational training is very weak. Private learning
institutions are virtually non-existent. As a consequence, the basic technical skills of workers and
managers are low, reducing task-level efficiencies in firms.
With little exposure to technological innovation and limited access to information flows, the
Mozambican private sector is at a significant disadvantage with respect to the latest
manufacturing techniques, industry marketing trends, and modern management practices. Today,
in the wake of trade liberalization, these firms are being compelled to compete with skilled
international rivals. There is an urgent need for a program of assistance to help firms build up
their technical capabilities.
This Technical Leaming in Firms Component (TLC) comprises three subcomponents: the Firm
Competitiveness Office (FCO), the Training and Advisory Office (TAO), and the Linkage
Program Office (LPO) - which are related to one another in the following ways:
* All three subcomponents foster technical learning through the private marketplace. The LPO
directly links buyers and suppliers. The FCO and TAO empower purchasers of services,
allowing them to choose what services make best sense for them, and allowing them to select
their own service providers - and thereby strengthening the market for business development
services. The cost sharing features of the FCO and TAO (firms themselves must pay 50
percent of the costs of services they use) ensures that the demand for technical learning is
credible.
* The FCO and the TAO target different segments of the private sector: the FCO focuses on
firms that already have achieved an initial baseline of capability; the training supported by the
TAO will benefit not just established SMEs but also the smallest firms who are difficult to
support on a one-to-one basis, and for whom generic training in basic business skills can
yield substantial returns.
* Management is delegated to the Management Contractor (MC), who has substantial
international experience in providing technical and marketing services to firms. The



Page 35
contractor will work under a term contract. The contractor's private orientation and
experience should (in combination with the cost sharing and linkage features described
above) help ensure that services are geared towards what firms actually need, are focused on
firms which can make the most effective use of the services, and are offered in a "private
sector friendly" way. The term contract signals that the initiative is time-bound - intended to
strengthen, not substitute for, the marketplace for business services.
* The joint management of the three sub-components by a single contractor will facilitate
information sharing, make it easier to guide firms towards appropriate services, foster
evolution of firms from one program to another - and take advantage of potential economies
of administration.
*  Responsibility for oversight of all three sub-components will be vested with the PoDE
Steering Committee (PSC). All approvals for grants below US$100,000 will be delegated by
the PSC to the MC. The PSC will approve any grants above that limit. Quarterly reports of all
subcomponents - including all grant approvals - will be made by the Management Contractor
to the steering committee at quarterly meetings, in order for the steering committee to give
guidance on future approval policy where needed. The PSC can only revoke an approval
already granted in the event that fraudulent information has been provided within an
application. Any applicant refused by the MC may appeal to the committee for a reversal of
the decision. Such cases will be reviewed by World Bank Supervision Missions.
* Following operational reviews, the Steering Committee would (at intervals no shorter than six
months) prepare proposals justifying changes to the operating directives of the Management
Contractor for IDA's consideration. Upon receipt of IDA's "no objection", it would send
written directions to the Management Contractor as to the ways (if any) in which the
contractor should redirect its efforts.
The following sections summarize how each sub-component will operate. Additional details are
provided in the Implementation Manual, and in a background paper written as part of project
preparation.
1. THE FIRM COMPETITIVENESS OFFICE (FCO)
Objective and Description
The objective of the FCO will be to boost the competitiveness of private firms doing business in
Mozambique through the provision of technology transfer support, and to strengthen their access
to, and use of, support services external to the firm. The primary means of achieving this
objective will be to provide cost-sharing grants to firms, in order to part-fund the costs of using
outside services and travel. The cost-sharing grant mechanism puts resources into the hands of
purchasers of services, allowing them to choose what services make best sense for them, and
allowing them to select their own service providers.
Experience with grant schemes has shown they work best when directed at the more capable
firms within a developing economy. The FCO will therefore focus its efforts on those firms in
Mozambique that can demonstrate the planning, technical and financial capacity required to make
good use of outside services and travel so as to boost competitiveness. As an indicator, firms will
need to have had at least one set of accounts accepted by the corporate tax authorities. Firms
approaching the FCO considered on this basis not yet ready for its specific assistance can be
referred to the Technical Advisory Office or the Linkage Program Office, as appropriate.



Page 36
The FCO office will provide matching grants to firms to encourage the use of support services
and travel, and "handholding" support to facilitate effective use of these matching grants by
firms. All grants will be on a 50 percent cost-sharing basis. No application will be considered for
a grant of under US$2,000. No single recipient firm or conglomerate may receive total grants in
excess of a cumulative limit of US$200,000. Recent World Bank survey work suggests that there
are probably in Mozambique around 200-300 firms that have the required planning, technical and
financial capability to make good use of FCO grants. It is reasonable to assume that out of this
population, around 100 could be persuaded to utilize FCO grants, each contributing an average
of, say, US$20,000 to the supported activities, to be matched by equal grants from the FCO. On
this basis, the FCO will have responsibility for a fund totaling US$2 million, to be committed
over three years, and to be fully disbursed by the end of one further year.
The FCO will be managed by the Management Contractor for the component, who will be
answerable to the PSC. The contractor will provide the services of one international expert for
three years, to act as FCO Manager. The contractor will also provide the services of one locally-
recruited professional for five years, to act as Assistant FCO Manager. The FCO Manager will
spend most of his time on client contact. In addition to assisting the FCO Manager with client
contact, the Assistant Manager will run the office systems for grant progress tracking,
bookkeeping, report generation, etc.
Qualifying Criteria for Grant Support
Only private, majority Mozambican-owned firms in manufacturing and services supporting
manufacturing and exports (including tourism) are eligible. The scheme will support firms in the
development of the following business activities: (i) the production of goods and tradable
services within Mozambique; and (ii) the trading of goods and services from Mozambique into
export markets. Financial services are not included. Producers of agricultural commodities,
where there is no firm-specific product differentiation in what is sold, are specifically excluded
from this scheme. (Note that efforts by agro-processors to strengthen their arms-length supply
chain upstream - by, say, exploring the development of an outgrower scheme, where agro-
processors provide advice, inputs etc. to smallholders - is eligible for cost-sharing support, so
long as it meets the other eligibility criteria; by contrast, the direct development of agricultural
production upstream by vertically-integrated firms would not be supported.)
The primary requirement is that the firm must have a written "competitiveness improvement
plan," which describes its current competitive situation, and indicates how it intends to improve
that situation, and in what direction (e.g. by improving product reliability, or by developing a new
export marketing strategy in order to sell into the South African market. (It is not intended that
this plan has to be a fully comprehensive "business plan," as typically required for obtaining a
substantial bank loan, with cashflow forecasts and the like.)
The plan must be realistic, in the sense that it must have a reasonable chance of being
implemented successfully, given the realities of the firm's current situation. There is no
requirement that the specifics of the plan are to be "approved" or vetted by any expert or
committee. However, the plan must demonstrate that the firm has properly considered key
planning issues:
* why one particular development direction was chosen instead of others; on what assumptions
this direction depends; and why this development direction can be considered realistic and
achievable;



Page 37
* what steps are required for that development;
* what resources are likely to be needed within these steps, and where will they come from;
* how long will the process take; and
* what benefits are to be expected.
Typically, a plan aimed at expanding sales might take a firm through these three stages:
* investigation of the target market, be it domestic or foreign, typically starting with desk
research or limited phone research, followed then by field interviewing, either carried out by
the firm's staff or by an outside service supplier;
* supply package adaptation, on the basis of information collected from the market, in order to
bring what is being supplied presently into line with customer preferences, and to meet
existing competition; for instance through changes in product design, rationalizing production
to reduce costs, or through improved quality assurance; with the adaptation completed,
* active selling of the improved supply package.
Once support to a particular plan has been completed, and the plan is in the process of being
satisfactorily implemented by the firm concerned, then the firm would be free to submit a further
follow-on plan for support, up to the maximum per firm of US$200,000.
Any usage of an external service which is charged for, or of travel, and which can reasonably be
expected to contribute to the achievement of an eligible competitiveness improvement plan will
be eligible for cost-sharing support. The following examples of service/travel usage that would
normally be eligible under this definition are provided purely for guidance. The list is not
intended to be exhaustive.
*  In-factory consultancy and short-term contract management services, say up to six months in
duration per introduced expert, would normally be eligible, but new permanent staff
appointments would not. The length of time for which temporary contract management could
be supported would depend on a case being made as to how long the required transfer of
know-how, skills, etc. could reasonably be expected to take.
* Consultancy or short-termn contract management assistance directed specifically at improving
labor productivity or yields on raw materials would normally be eligible.
* Assistance in improving in-house capabilities in design-related techniques such as pattem-
making, prototyping, grading, sizing, counter-sampling, etc., would normally be eligible.
Buying in a set of designs for one season only, with no longer-term enhancements aimed for,
would normally not be eligible.
* The expenses of exposure tours for factory personnel, to view alternative techniques and
technologies in factories elsewhere would normally be eligible, as would market exploration
tours by marketing personnel, to explore new export market opportunities.



Page 38
Expenditures on service fees, and expenditures on travel and incidental expenses charged at cost,
incurred wholly and exclusively on an eligible service/travel usage, will be eligible for grant
support. Salaries for staff employed by the supported firm are not eligible, nor are recurrent costs
such as royalty fees. No expenditures on hardware can be supported.
For each eligible service/travel usage for which grant support is being sought, the firm concerned
will be expected to define monitorable targets and at least one "deliverable," the sight of which
will verify that the activity had indeed taken place, as described. Experience has shown that,
although travel can be extremely helpful within a program aimed at boosting competitiveness, it
is particularly prone to abuse. The FCO Manager will therefore take particular care to ensure that
travel is supported only when it forms a clear integral part of an eligible plan, and that it has clear,
verifiable outputs that are essential to the plan.
The choice of service supplier will be made by the recipient firm, and will not be restricted to
suppliers on any central register. Hiowever, the FCO Manager will seek to satisfy himself/herself
as to the supplier's competence for the task intended, and that there is a genuine arms-length
commercial relationship between supplier and user. The FCO Manager will also seek to satisfy
himself/herself that fee rates being charged for services are broadly in line with market realities.
With grants provided only on ex-post reimbursement basis, smaller firms may face some cash
flow burdens. To ease this burden, assistance to firms could be structured so that the overall
program of support for the firm is subdivided down to the size of the smallest feasible deliverable
with reimbursement made for each sub-part. Also, the Management Contractor would be held to
strict reimbursement standards including, for example, a turnaround time (including receipt of the
necessary documentation, confirmation of the provision of the consultant service, and verification
of a deliverable) of not more than 5 days following the completion of a task.
Experience and research has indicated that the biggest risk with cost sharing grant schemes is that
the pressure to disburse the funds committed within the World Bank project results in the quality
of grant help being compromised. Unsuitable firms are assisted, that are quite unable to make
proper use of outside services. One-off travel is supported, without being related to any larger
competitiveness improvement plan. In order to manage that risk, the PODE Steering Committee
will commission independent technical quality and financial audits (semi-annual for the first year
and a half, annual thereafter), based on two weeks of fieldwork, primarily field visits to a sample
of firms assisted.
2. TRAINING AND ADVISORY OFFICE (TAO)
Objective and Description
Industry surveys in Mozambique have indicated a significant unmet demand for business and
technical skills upgrading in the manufacturing sector. The shortage of such skills in Mozambique
are a reflection of the dearth of tertiary and vocational training opportunities in past years in the
country. International experience suggests that the provision of training and capacity building
assistance should be as closely related to existing market-driven signals and existing providers as
possible. This sub-component, through the Training and Advisory Office (TAO), seeks to
support the development of an active business and technical training market in Mozambique.
The TAO will support the development of private business training initiatives in Mozambique;
these initiatives can be targeted at manufacturing industries (including agro-processing), export
trading in manufacturing products, and key service businesses including transport, tourism and
financial services. Cost sharing grants, on a 50/50 basis, will be made available to qualified



Page 39
trainers to provide training services which support the PoDE focal sectors. These training
services will include (a) existing local or overseas developed training courses for which a local
market has not yet developed ("A" Type Courses), or (b) additional training courses for which a
market demand can be demonstrated through local market research or feedback from within the
local private sector, ("B" Type Courses).
Training firms, or individuals with training experience, will be registered under the TAO training
initiative according to a process described below. It is expected that such "trainers" will include
both existing training providers in Mozambique and overseas firms, and that the PoDE project,
through the TAO, will result in both a broadening (more "trainers" providing business and
technical skills training for manufacturing industries), and a deepening (more "training courses"
being provided) of the training market within Mozambique.
Training courses to be funded under this sub-component might include, inter alia, courses such as
those listed in Table A. below. More important than the suggested list of possible courses given
here is the essential sub-component aim to help to create a richer market of privately available
training courses in Mozambique, which will assist in upgrading the business acumen and
technical skills of management and employees in the Mozambican private sector. It is the
intention of this component to build on the existing small base of private sector business and
technical training providers, rather than to substitute these with training providers who are
primarily publicly funded, nor to create or enhance a dual market of private and donor funded
training providers.
Courses for which training materials already exist (Type "A") will be funded on a 50/50 cost
sharing basis, with respect to course delivery costs only. A qualified trainer providing a PoDE
approved course (as defined below) will be reimbursed 50 percent of the costs of delivering
training on a per participant basis. Where the market assessment, or applicant trainers,
demonstrate that the market is not providing relevant training in a specific set of skills, Grant
Support can contribute up to 50 percent of course development costs for these Type "B" courses.
Total grant support is estimated at US$2 million equivalent, which is derived from estimates of
the number of courses, average number of participants, and costs related to delivery and
development.



Page 40
Table 4: Possible Courses to be Funded under the TAO
usiness Skills     Marketing (including product selection, promotion, pricing, and competition)
Financial Management (inc. financial statements, accounting systems, budgeting
and forecasting)
Production Management (including manufacturing efficiency, quality management
and inventory control)
Business Strategy (including feasibility studies, business planning, and personnel
management)
Technical Skills    Training in selling or other specialist business services
Training for shop-floor skills for employees such as in welding, machining,
assembly or finishing
Training in manufacturing services such as quality control techniques and
supervisory skills
Professional Skills    Training in accounting, cost control and personnel management
Other Skills        As identified by market assessment or demand from trainers.
In order to increase overall capacity in the training provision market, no more than US$200,000
of the total Grant Support will be allocated to any one firm during the life of the project. Where
any one firm reaches this limit, no further allocation will be permitted unless and until the PoDE
project's annual technical audit check confirms that the project is obtaining value for money from
each of these firms, and that this judgement is endorsed by the project steering committee.
The TAO will be managed by the MC, who will be answerable to the PSC. The MC will provide
the services of one international expert for four years, to act as Training Coordinator. The MC
will also provide the services of one locally-recruited professional for four years, to act as
Assistant Training Coordinator. The Training Coordinators will be responsible for carrying out
an initial assessment of the Mozambique training market, inviting and registering potential
trainers and their proposed training courses, and monitoring the delivery of these courses.
Qualifying Criteria for TAO Grant Support
All private or not-for-profit (i.e. those not receiving publicly funded support) training firms and
trainers are eligible to apply for grant support for relevant training courses. To receive support
under the TAO as approved applicants, training firms and trainers must pre-qualify as registered
training organizations. To pre-qualify, training firms and trainers must have relevant experience
in business and/or technical training, and will demonstrate their level of experience to the TAO
through presentation of resumes of trainers, list of past training activities, and samples of course
materials. The TAO will approve registration of applicant training organizations on a case by case
basis.
Registered (i.e. pre-qualified by the TAO) training organizations will be able to submit single
proposals for grant support for "Type A" training courses. Eligibility requirements for approval
of a training course for grant support will include:



Page 41
* Training course is to be advertised and made publicly available
* Training course fee for participants is in line with current market rates
* Course materials and delivery methodology are appropriate to the project target group
* Course design includes registration and feedback forms to facilitate monitoring and impact
assessment
*  Proposed Trainers have suitable experience in delivering the proposed course content
For Type A courses, market assessments will provide a guideline price per participant per day for
the offered course in each of the three principal geographic areas (eg., Maputo, Beira, Nampula).
The TAO staff will be pro-active in seeking out training gaps in the market, and in encouraging
qualified firms to carry out this Type "B" training, including through the use of development
grants as described above. Competitive bidding processes will be used to set the price of these
Type "B" grants.
As designed, the Technical Advisory Office will only offer ex-post reimbursement, which may
impose unmanageable cash flow burden on smaller firms. To ease this burden, following the
completion of a task, receipt of the necessary documentation confirming the provision of the
consultant service, and the verification of a deliverable, the Management Contractor would be
held to strict reimbursement standards including, for example, a turnaround time of not more than
5 days. In addition, assistance to firms could be structured so that the overall program of support
for the firm is subdivided down to the size of the smallest feasible deliverable with
reimbursement made for each sub-part. Group delivery mechanisms could also be employed.
Based on concerns expressed by the members of the Steering Committee that the 50:50 grant
arrangement might be inadequate for the smallest firms, the key intended beneficiaries of
matching grants for training, it was agreed that the component would initially offer only a 50%
grant to benefit from maintaining simplicity and a single subsidy amount. Six months after start
up of disbursement, the Management Contractor and the Steering Committee would revisit
whether this grant arrangement for training was indeed compatible with the objective of reaching
the smallest firms. If this objective was not being met, the Steering Committee, in consultation
with IDA, would make an explicit decision as to whether benefits of a special window (with
75:25 subsidy for training oriented to smallest firms), outweighed the costs of added complexity.
If this transpired, it would be preferable to fund this additional subsidy from a source outside
PoDE.
The TAO should make special efforts to enhance the availability of training opportunities for the
smallest firms, and for firms outside Maputo. The PSC should monitor performance in this
regard and, as necessary suggest adjustments in the targets of the TAO sub-component in this
regard.
The PODE Steering Committee will commission independent technical quality and financial
audits for this sub-component (semi-annual for the first year and a half and annual thereafter),
based on two weeks of fieldwork, primarily field visits to a sample of firms assisted.



Page 42
3. THE LINKAGE PROGRAM OFFICE
Objective and Description
The objective of the Linkage Program Office (LPO) will be to facilitate supply linkages between
Mozambican supplier firms and joint-venture or foreign-owned firms, where decisions to
purchase goods and services are taken within Mozambique. The office will facilitate the process
of re-orienting local supplier firms to the international standards of performance expected by such
purchaser firms.
A pilot linkage activity has been operating within CPI since mid-1998, funded under the World
Bank's Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project (IERP), and aimed specifically at exploiting the
immediate and short-term linkage opportunities provided by the building of the Mozal aluminum
smelter. One early lesson from the pilot activity is that there are advantages in locating a linkage
"contact point" within a one-stop service for foreign investors. A second early lesson is that
effective linkage activity is very time intensive - and requires detailed knowledge of the
capabilities of local firms, knowledge of a kind which is central to the success of the TLC sub-
components, but which would not naturally be acquired by CPI in the ordinary course of its
business. The Project will build on the experience and market knowledge gained by the pilot.
The PODE will support the establishment of a Linkage Promotion Office, operated by the MC.
The MC will provide the services of one international expert with specific experience in linkage
facilitation schemes. Over the four-year implementation period, the contractor will also provide
the services of one locally-recruited professionals to assist this manager, as a Linkage Facilitation
Officer.
In addition to the LPO, within its institution-building component the Project will fund, for the
four years of the project, the direct employment costs of employing a locally-recruited Linkage
Contact Officer on the staff of CPI. This officer will be wholly responsible to the management of
CPI, and not to the LPO Manager. However, he/she will provide a contact point within CPI to
the LPO linkage activities. He will keep himself regularly informed as to LPO activities. He will
be invited to participate in LPO meetings, where appropriate. From his knowledge of CPI
investment promotion and facilitation operations, he will look out for possible linkage
opportunities, and pass these leads on to the LPO team. He will use his knowledge of LPO
successes to promote local supplier capabilities to potential foreign investors.
Operation of the LPO
The LPO will start each specific linkage activity by obtaining the willing co-operation of the
target purchaser firm. In discussions with those responsible for purchasing decisions within a co-
operating target purchaser firm, the LPO will agree on a short-list of product and service
requirements which could realistically be supplied by local firms within the time horizon of the
project. For each of these short-listed products or services, it will obtain from the target purchaser
firm a full and comprehensive specification of exactly what is to be purchased.
The LPO will then aim to locate and sign up for participation in the linkage program three client
supplier firms for each specification being worked on. The purchaser firm may decide to select
its supplier for a particular specified opportunity by means of some process of competitive
bidding or tendering. In this case, all three client firms being assisted on this opportunity will be
working to the same deadline. Only private, majority Mozambican-owned firms will be eligible
for LPO assistance as potential suppliers. Consideration will be given to size; track record in the



Page 43
local market; production, marketing and management capabilities; existing appreciation of
intemational performance standards; and existing workloads. To maintain a reputation for helping
purchasers get the best local suppliers available, it will be important not to exclude good firms
from the program. There will therefore be no limits set on the number of opportunities within
which one supplier firm may be assisted.
Selected firms which choose to participate will not be expected to pay for the assistance being
given, but will be expected to commit in a written agreement letter to full co-operation with the
LPO. The agreement will also commit both parties to maintaining the confidentiality of business-
sensitive information revealed during the facilitation process. The co-operation agreement may be
terminated by either party by giving one week's notice in writing.
Through a process of discussion, the LPO Officer will obtain the agreement of the client supplier
firm to an action plan. This will be directed at addressing any mismatch between the product or
service offering the firm is currently able to deliver and the purchase requirement, as per the
specification. The action plan will include milestone dates, and indications of what outside
assistance might be required to achieve the improvements planned. The responsible LPO officer
will monitor progress through the implementation of the agreed action plan, giving advice as
needed. The ideal is for this to continue through to the time when at least one assisted client firm
obtains its first purchase order, and then fulfills this order to the satisfaction of the purchaser.
(Purchaser firms of course retain the right to let it be known at any time that either their needs as
specified have been fully met, or that they have no further interest in co-operating with the
linkage program on some specific opportunity).
In the majority of cases, it is expected that the client firm will require outside expert help within
its action plans. The responsible LPO officer will assist the client firm in making an application
to the FCO for cost-sharing grant assistance, as appropriate. This application will be evaluated on
its merits by the FCO team, without any special preferences being given to LCO clients. Where
employee training in business skills is required within an action plan, the LPO officer will use his
links to the TAO to help the client firm take advantage of suitable project-supported training
courses.
4. SUPPORT FOR OTHER GOVERNMENT INITIATIVES
Under the Technical Learning Component, efforts will be made to support the Governments'
initiatives in advancing its gender equality, enhancement of skills and welfare, and HIV/AIDS
prevention and reduction objectives. The implementation procedures for this component would
incorporate relevant instructions on this support which do not undermine the component's core
technology transfer objectives and the overriding principle that technical assistance be provided
to enterprises on a demand-driven basis. As the component is currently designed, in the absence
of gender discrimination, women entrepreneurs will benefit from the matching grants. The
operating procedures will stipulate against gender discrimination and require that the gender of
applicants, grantees, and rejectees be recorded and monitored. Numeracy and functional literacy
will be addressed in the market-based grants as many private firms in Mozambique have already
indicated that these elements will be part of the training programs they will apply for under the
scheme according to their individual needs. To ensure the national labor standards, including
child labor laws, are followed, the operating procedures will incorporate language instructing the
management contractor to only approve grants to firms respecting these standards. HV/AIDS
awareness and training programs would be offered free of charge to the grantee at the time the
grant is approved. Implementation arrangements for the support to the }IIV/AIDS initiative will
be defined and funded under parallel arrangements agreed between the Government and the
sponsoring donors in consultation with IDA.



Page 44
The PoDE Steering Committee will commission semi-annual (for the first year and a half and
annual thereafter), independent Technical Quality Audits for this sub-component, based on two
weeks of fieldwork, primarily field visits to a sample of firms assisted.



Page 45
ANNEX 5
FINANCE COMPONENT
Environmental Conditions
Although the now closed IDA-financed Mozambique Small and Medium Enterprise Development
Project (SMEDP, Cr. 2082) line of credit was viewed as a failure, both in terms of disbursement
and repayment effectiveness, environmental conditions for a second line of credit for essentially
the same purpose have improved dramatically.
Macro-economic Environment. The macro-economic environment now provides an adequate
foundation for term lending and, indeed, several Mozambican banks are beginning to seriously
consider expanding term lending as a portion of portfolio, even from own funds as a result.
Inflation, as officially measured, is essentially 0 percent over the 12 months ending September
1998 (it was about 49 percent when the first line of credit was appraised) and the metical has
stabilized, dropping only 3.6 percent against the dollar during that time period. The real sector
and infrastructure, extremely fragile during the earlier postwar period, is now sufficiently robust
that real GDP grew 9 percent during the past year, and both industrial production and new
industrial investment have grown steadily.
Interest Rate Environment. As environmental uncertainty has steadily dropped, the interest rate
structure, while remaining high in real terms, has also become more conducive to term lending.
During the same 12 months ending September 1998, average lending rates per Bank of
Mozambique (BOM) statistics, dropped from 34 percent to 25 percent in nominal terms, while
average deposit nominal rates dropped about 6 percent to 8.8 percent. Ninety day T-bills, as of
September, earn 9.7 percent or less than 10 percent in real terrns, and a positive yield curve has
developed with deposits of over one year--albeit small in amount--earning an average 1.7 percent
more than short term deposits.
Anecdotal evidence suggests significant additional improvement in the interest rate environment
in late 1998 with one major bank now posting a prime rate of 19 percent and several banks
reducing most interest rates on new lending to 20-22 percent. The yield curve is now flattening
with one major bank paying less for long term deposits than for short term deposits as the market
widely anticipates additional declines in interest rates. Bankers do not see the seemingly high
real interest rates as adding much risk to term lending because there is a prevailing view that the
true level of inflation if measured on a broad basket of services inclusive of the non-monetized
sector is about 10 percent, bringing real term lending rates to affordable levels.
Lending interest rates may be holding at artificially high levels relative to cost of funds due to
credit ceilings which place nominal limits on the amount of defined credit each bank can extend.
While these ceilings "bite" sharply for most banks with respect to short term and revolving loans,
they do not "bite" significantly for term lending, as virtually all of it has been excluded from the
ceilings. This keeps spreads above the 6 to 8 percent several large banks believe they need to be
profitable at higher loan deposit ratios. As term lending is viewed as more risky than short term
lending, it may have an indirect effect on long term interest rates as well. The Authorities plan to
further liberalize credit ceilings in 1999 and to eliminate them in the year 2000.



Page 46
Credit Disciplinary Environment. Despite a significantly strengthened real sector and macro
environment, the credit disciplinary environment remains a serious problem and a previous
"culture of non-repayment" is proving difficult to eradicate. System-wide, non-performing loans
(NPLs) are estimated at 15 percent of total portfolio and they have reportedly increased during
1998. Some bankers attribute the reported increase to significantly improved banking supervision
and tightened regulations with respect to defining NPLs.
The legal infrastructure related to debt collection is not satisfactory The judicial system is
viewed as slow and undependable and there are problems with securing collateral, particularly
when related to land. Nonetheless, bankers believe risks of non-repayment are significantly
decreasing as environment risk is decreasing and useful formal and informal credit information
systems have come into operation. Moreover, one large bank is changing all its loan agreements
such that they provide the bank with power of attorney to convey titles on collateral into their
own name in the case of default. If this proves feasible as they expect, it should make a huge
contribution to improving the credit disciplinary environment and reducing bad debt risk.
Banking Institutional Environment. The banking system has strengthened substantially since the
first line of credit was approved. At that time, two Government banks dominated both market
share and SMEDP line of credit usage, financing 84 percent of the subprojects and committing 87
percent of the funds. Today these two banks have been privatized, have foreign management, and
have been substantially re-capitalized. There are now eight commercial banks and one leasing
company in Mozambique. All are privately controlled, all, prior to indepth analysis, appear to be
in reasonably sound financial condition, and most have direct access to considerable foreign
expertise both to fill senior management positions and to provide technical assistance as needed.
The banking culture at senior management levels is commercial and ensures that all sub-project
applications will be subject to serious creditworthiness screening. Also, most banks are investing
in significant training programs for their staff.
Effective Demandfor Credit. This PoDE includes a modest US$10 million line of credit to
support small and medium scale term investment. Proposed EIB lines of credit, containing about
ECU 15 million for term lending, are expected to be approved by Fall 1999. On a combined basis,
these lines involve considerably less funding than the approximately US$29 million that IDA
provided under the SMEDP. Meanwhile, total GDP is about 12 percent higher than the GDP
during the last implementation year of the SMEDP (1 997), GDP growth averaged about 9 percent
per annum during the last three years, the number of creditworthy borrowers is steadily
increasing, and interest in new investment is on the rise, given the increasingly attractive
investment and lending environment. Indeed, the private enterprise development program within
this project anticipates providing effective support to approximately 75 entrepreneurs creating
potential demand for over US$10 million in term credit.
With the improvement in market conditions, considerable medium term lending is already taking
place. For example, while it needs to be tested over a longer time period, the BOM Statistical
Bulletin reports for the most recent month (June 1998), total "investment credit used" for
industry, construction and transport added to US$27 million inclusive of the commitments under
the IERP and SMEDP programs. Unfortunately, the vast bulk of the term lending is for periods
of 2 years or less and it is predominantly available to large borrowers. Deposits of one year or
more represent a very small portion of total deposits at this juncture and banks, with one notable
exception, are reluctant to lend for more than one year on the basis of short-term deposits.
Concerns with respect to interest rate and liquidity risk dominate the thinking.
Bankers are unanimous in expressing the view that the demand for 2 to 5 year credit is substantial
and growing and in their desire to increase their own term lending to the extent they have an



Page 47
appropriate funding base. Most view potential access to long term local currency money at
market interest rates, adjusted semi-annually, an attractive funding base for such lending. The
availability of EIB funds could affect the potential attractiveness of this money in the short term.
IFC has provided a line of credit in foreign currency and several banks with extensive foreign
participation have access to unsubsidized foreign currency finance from other sources and may
use little of this line of credit.
In summary, Mozambique represents a satisfactory environment for term lending at this juncture
from a macro-economic, interest rate, and banking institutional environment perspective. The
credit disciplinary environment, while not satisfactory, is improving. Effective demand for local
currency loans in excess of 2 years exceeds the available funding viewed as suitable for such
lending by bankers. While credit ceilings increase the price of term loans, they appear to have
relatively little negative direct effect on the quantity as most investment lending is excluded from
the amounts counted against the ceilings.
The Proposed Line of Credit
A total of US$10 million would be made available for lending to subprojects in two sub-
components including: (i) US$3 million in a special facility designed for very small first time
bank borrowers; (ii) US$3 million for traditional loans in support of medium and small scale
borrowers. An initially unallocated US$4 million to be allocated to one or both of the other sub-
components will be available following a mid-term review.
Sub-borrower Eligibility Requirements. Funding under both sub-components would be available
to finance investment assets including permanent working capital for private sub-borrowers in all
sectors (including industry, agro-processing, tourism, transportation, construction and services)
other than finance and real estate. Individual borrower eligibility requirements for the special
facility for small borrowers would include: (i) no history of previous formal borrowing from
banks including no previous borrowing under this facility; (ii) minimum equity requirements of
10 percent of the amount of the sub-project; and (iii) maximum borrower total assets of
US$40,000. Eligibility requirements for borrowers under the traditional component would
include: (i) no outstanding loans in default; (ii) minimum equity requirement of 25 percent of the
amount of the sub-project; and (iii) a maximum US$500,000 in total assets.
Financial Terms and Conditions.. Funds for on-lending would be provided by the BOM to PFIs
in meticals without foreign exchange risk at a cost equivalent to the market-based average interest
rate paid for six month deposits, adjusted quarterly. The Government would receive implicit
compensation for foreign exchange risk to the extent that it is reflected in market deposit rates.
PFIs would take full responsibility for commercial risk. Repayments by PFIs to BOM will be in
accordance with the fixed amortization schedule of each sub-loan. The Government has indicated
also that the BOM would establish a revolving fund to be funded by the repayments of the PFIs.
Proceeds of the revolving fund would be on-lent to PFIs in conformity with the objectives and the
terms and conditions of sub-loans and investments as provided in this component. Overall
responsibility for the line of credit and the revolving fund would remain with the BOM including
access to the line of credit but the day-to-day operational requirements would be delegated to the
UASP. The principal amount of the subsidiary loans will be fully repaid by BOM to the
Government at the end of a I 0-year grace period.
PFIs would make loans to eligible sub-borrowers for periods of 2-1/2 to 7 years with a maximum
grace period of one year. Interest rates would be freely determined by the PFI, but variable on a
quarterly basis.



Page 48
Maximum subproject loan sizes would be US$15,000 equivalent for special facility loans and
US$300,000 in the case of the traditional loans sub-component. PFIs would, of course, be free to
augment project funds with their own funds to make larger total loans available as they wished.
The special facility is designed to catalyze commercial bank lending to very small first time
borrowers who often have considerable difficulty in obtaining a first loan as they are viewed as
high risk borrowers involving high transaction cost relative to potential revenue generation.
Government places high priority on catalyzing increased lending from banks to these largely
indigenous borrowers. Therefore, for approved special facility subprojects it will make available
through the PFI parallel "quasi-equity" finding at the Government's risk equal to 25 percent of
total project cost. This funding will have no debt servicing requirements during the scheduled life
of the PFI sub-loan, and will, therefore, create de facto total equity and quasi-equity of at least 35
percent of project cost which, as it is subordinated to the bank's loan, significantly reduces lender
risk.
Under this arrangement, the borrower will have a major incentive to repay the bank loan on time,
as this 25 percent quasi-equity would then become a grant to the borrower when repayment is
complete. If the sub-borrower does not repay the bank loan as scheduled, the 25 percent funding
would be converted into a loan under terms and conditions identical to the PFI loan to be
collected for a fee on behalf of Government by the PFI starting at the date the bank loan should
have been fully repaid. While this arrangement would create a relatively high budgetary cost per
borrower, the cost to the economy is less than for subprojects financed by state-owned banks
under previous lines of credit, given the high default rates. Moreover, the design of this
component is putting in place powerful incentives to change the culture of non-repayment.
While no portion of the line of credit funds will be specifically reserved for small and medium
sized enterprises participating in the PoDE business facilitation components, it is anticipated that
such projects will have a comparative advantage in competing for funds by virtue of the
specialized advice they will receive.
Intermediary Eligibility Requirements. Initial eligibility criteria, to be ascertained based on
December 1998 financial statements, would include: (i) being in compliance with all BOM
prudential regulatory requirements, e.g., capital adequacy, maximum loan concentration limits,
loan classification and provisioning, and foreign exchange risk exposure; (ii) a net profit during
1998 as evidenced by audited accounts prepared in accord with international standards; (iii) total
non-performing loans of less than 20 percent of portfolio; and (iv) submission of a document
describing and showing to be satisfactory the PFI's term-lending organizational structure, staff
experience, policies and procedures and training program. The BOM Banking Supervision
Department will be responsible for verifying to what extent candidate PFIs meet the eligibility
requirements and IDA will confirm each PFI's eligibility to participate in the Project. It is
anticipated that a majority of Mozambique's banks and leasing companies will meet these
criteria.
After the initial assessment, all commercial banks and leasing companies in Mozambique which
continue to meet the eligibility criteria outlined above and verified by BOM and confirmed by
IDA annually would be eligible to participate. Access to uncommitted funds under both sub-
components would be on a first come first served basis subject to a maximum 25 percent of the
initial US$6 million or 10 percent of a PFI's net worth, whichever is lower, being available to any
one institution.
PFIs will be required to submit detailed quarterly reports on sub-loans which inter alia includes
information on amounts collected, amounts overdue, and aging of overdue amounts. Also, PFIs



Page 49
will be required to submit annual audited reports within six months following the end of their
fiscal year, prepared in accordance with international principles by auditors satisfactory to IDA.
While disbursements would continue under previous approved subproject commitments, once
eligible, PFIs ongoing eligibility to make new commitments would immediately cease if: (i)
collections on sub-loans drop to less than 85 percent of amounts coming due; (ii) required
quarterly reports are not received within 45 days of their respective due dates; (iv) a qualified
opinion is given on the PFI's annual audit reports or the audit reports are not received within 45
days of their respective due dates; or (iv) they no longer meet the other stated eligibility
requirements. After the mid-term review, in addition to meeting the above eligibility criteria,
PFIs would be required to supply matching funds equal to at least one third of the project fund
amounts made available to individual sub-projects to continue to qualify for additional
commitments.
When all of the initial funds have been committed in one of the sub-components, a mid-term
review will be undertaken prior to the release of the unallocated resources under this component,
which will: (i) ensure that credit ceilings have been fully eliminated as scheduled; (ii) thoroughly
review individual PFI performance and eligibility; (iii) review the suitability of existing
procedures, terms and conditions and make appropriate adjustments, if required; and (iv) allocate
the remaining US$4 million between the two sub-components.
Credit Delivery Arrangements.  The Finance Component will be managed by the Credit
Operations Department (COD) at the BOM. BOM has designated the UASP as the credit
administrator. COD will be primarily responsible for ensuring that the line of credit is accessed
by PFIs that are solvent, well-managed, and operating based on sound financial policies. The
UASP will be responsible for: ensuring the line of credit is accessed by eligible firms; assisting
PFIs in efficiently, effectively and timely intermediating funds under this component; and
monitoring the repayment performance of sub-borrowers.
The COD's role in the approval process would be limited to ascertaining the eligibility of the
PFIs. The COD will inform the UASP of a PFI's eligibility within 3 business days from receipt
of the application from the PFI. The UASP's role would be limited to narrow administrative
aspects given that all intermediaries are private, commercially oriented, and competently staffed
at senior management levels. It would, within 7 days of receipt of the COD's confirmation of the
PFI's eligibility and receipt of the application, approve or disapprove individual subprojects
based only upon whether or not they meet eligibility requirements. No effort will be made to
assess feasibility or other appraisal elements. As all lenders and borrowers are private and
commercially oriented, and maximum loan sizes are small, procurement processes would be in
accord with normal local practice and would not need to be reviewed.
Disbursement and procurement procedures would be simplified. Disbursement would be drawn
from a special account and made up-front, at the time of sub-loan approval, based on a pro-forma
statement of project costs to be financed. The UASP would play no role in approving in advance
individual transactions or documents except for new banks with no prior experience with IDA-
funded lines of credit. In this case, IDA's prior approval will be required for the first three loans
approved by a PFI under the Traditional Facility and the first two under the Special Facility. At
the earlier of nine months after subproject approval or completion of disbursement, the PFI would
be responsible for submitting full documentary support for all disbursements for a specific
subproject. The UASP would review documentation for eligibility and insist on repayment from
the PFI, to the extent that any ineligible or unsatisfactorily documented expenditures are
discovered.  Penalties, at twice the interest rate charged to PFIs, for amounts remaining
undisbursed to sub-borrowers, or any disbursements not in accord with the agreed requirements,
and not returned within one month of the scheduled disbursements will be imposed on PFIs.



Page 50
The UASP will receive from PFIs their detailed quarterly reports on sub-loans and will monitor
the information on amounts collected, amounts overdue and the aging of overdue amounts. The
UASP would receive a fee from Government for its approval, disbursement and monitoring
services.



Page 51
ANNEX 6
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
The Institutional Development Component will address two key objectives: (i) enhancing the
capabilities of private and public institutions to deliver business support services; and (ii)
supporting Government agencies in their transformation process from maintaining control
functions to providing business facilitation and promotion services, including improving the
capability of these agencies to identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities. Capacity building
assistance will be extended to both the private and public institutions including the Investment
Promotion Center (CPI), the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism (MICTUR), and the
Commission of Economic Associations (CTA).
Investment Promotion Center
The Investment Promotion Center (CPI) supports the objectives of PoDE, and warrants
substantial support under the Institutional Capacity Building component of the project for three
inter-related reasons. First, for reasons explored in Annex 3, CPI's efforts to attract investment
are critical for the continuing dynamism of Mozambique's domestic private sector - and hence
for the success of this project. Foreign investment helps sustain the rapid aggregate rates of
growth, and hence continuing demand for the goods and services which can be provided by local
firms. New investors into Mozambique bring with them new technologies, new skills, and new
linkages with intemational markets. Moreover, in facilitating entry by new investors, CPI is
engaged in continual learning as to regulatory and other obstacles in the Mozambican business
environment, and is on the front-line in easing these obstacles. Indeed, an important rationale for
supporting CPI via the PoDE is to ensure that CPI continues to work to ease these regulatory
obstacles in ways that benefit the private sector broadly, not only individual investors which are
the immediate targets of attention.
Second, the world over, the task of attracting inward investment (that is, of "promoting a
country") is recognized as a public good, with high economic and social returns but limited
potential for private profit - and hence a strong candidate for the use of public funds. Public
monies are only worth spending on investment promotion, however, if there indeed exists an
agency capable of undertaking the task efficiently and effectively. Over the past two years, with
IDA support under the IERP, CPI has successfully transformed itself from a regulatory to a
promotional and facilitative agency, and indeed is rapidly becoming an exemplar of global best
practice.
Third, Mozambique needs to broaden its appeal to foreign investors engaged in labor-intensive,
employment-creating activities, not just those active in the capital-intensive mega projects which
have thus far been the primary focus of achievements. The world over, export processing zones
(if well-designed) have proven useful in attracting outward-oriented foreign investment in
countries in an early stage of industrial development, and with correspondingly weak institutions
and infrastructure. As discussed below, within Mozambique CPI is ideally positioned to act as a
catalyst for the development of such export "free zones".



Page 52
Ongoing Support for CPI 's "Core " Activities and Development
A Three Year Strategic Plan for CPI, approved by Mozambique's Council of Ministers in August
1997, set the objective of transforming CPI from a regulator to facilitator and promoter. Donor
support was central to CPI's successful achievement of this objective; virtually the entire budget
of CPI was covered by IDA under the IERP. The PoDE will continue to provide budget support
for CPI's "core" activities and development. Over the next few years, these resources will
support the following CPI activities:
*  Its on-going work which centers on further revisions of the investment registration process;
modification of its internal structure; development of an investor tracking system and
promotional presentations on privatization opportunities in Mozambique, and implementation
of a pilot linkage program between small, local producers and enterprises and large, foreign-
owned companies;
*  A renewed focus on actively promoting certain sectors to attract investors particularly in the
light industry, agro-industry, tourism, infrastructure, fisheries, and mining sectors.
*  establishing offices in key municipalities of the country including Beira, Nampula, Cabo
Delgado and Inhambane and external offices in South Africa and an antenna office in
Mauritius.
Through its promotional efforts, CPI expects to directly affect the creation of at least 60 mid- to
large-scale projects from foreign direct investments and at least 23,000 jobs and attract an
incremental US$440 million investment inflows.
Supportfor the Development of Export "Free Zones " in Mozambique
CPI is ideally positioned to act as a catalyst for the development of "Free Zones" in Mozambique,
and intends to take on this role. Mozambique's 1993 Investment Law made provision for
industrial free zones, but cumbersome implementing regulations made such zones (which are to
be privately developed and promoted) unattractive to investors. CPI staff are in the process of
finalizing proposed new regulations regarding FZs in Mozambique, which they plan to submit to
the Council of Ministers for consideration in early 1999. These proposed new regulations are
consistent with international best practice, and are expected to attract considerable intemational
interest.
As Executive Organ (EO) of the Conselho de Zonas Francas (CZF), CPI will not merely act in
response to a potential developer coming forward with a request to assist in acquiring a lease on a
particular site and granting it FZ status. It will be pro-active, seeking to establish an appropriate
land use and development policy for FZs, and identifying specific sites, which would then be put
out to tender to interested developers. Interested potential developers would then undertake the
necessary studies for site development and any additional required infrastructure (such as
wastewater pre-treatment and/or treatment facilities) as well as environmental impact
assessments.
This work to catalyze the private development of Free Zones will proceed on two parallel tracks -
both financed under PoDE. The focus of the first track, which is already progressing rapidly (with
initial support from IERP), is on establishing a pilot zone in the vicinity of Maputo. Two
promising sites of about 100 ha. each (about 250 acres) have been identified, one of which will be
offered for tender to potential zone developers. A priori, both appear to have adequate access to



Page 53
infrastructure such as roads, power, water and telecommunications, and the Maputo port. Further
studies of these two sites are currently in the process of being contracted out. Their goals are to:
evaluate each site's suitability from a technical point of view, including checking that there are no
obvious environmental impediments, and initiating work to address other environmental issues
(see below); develop financial models, including estimates of the cost of developing either site;
and prepare tender documents for the selected site.
The second track will explore options for Free Zone or "Freeport" (a more ambitious variant of a
zone, which potentially can encompass an entire city) development in Beira and Nacala. One set
of studies under this track will evaluate the desirability in principle for Mozambique of the
"freeport" concept, and its potential viability in each of Beira, Maputo and Nacala. This set of
studies will examine the revenue implications on corporate taxes for Mozambique via the free
zones. A second set of studies will examine the infrastructure requirements for possible FZs in
Beira and/or Nacala (US$500,000). Because infrastructure is considerably less well developed
or, in some cases, not yet repaired after the civil war, around Beira and Nacala, it is expected that
there would be some additional off-site infrastructure (e.g. water supply, power,
telecommunications, roads, rail,) required in order for a viable FZ to be developed in either area.
It will be important to study the possible needs at different potential sites, including those relevant
for environmental sustainability, and to see how best to integrate such possible needs with the
broader development plans of these regions.
In all, the "free zone" subcomponent of the PoDE will provide three sets of support for CPI, in its
role as EO of the CZF:
- Funding for necessary additional staff, plus additional office furniture and equipment and
vehicles. The project would also finance both formal and on-the-job training in FZ issues and
procedures for relevant CPI staff.
* Funding for studies - the contracting of external legal, engineering, environmental and
financial expertise to assist CPI in the preparation and publication of tendering
documentation, as well as in the review of bids, negotiation and follow-up with bidders ; and
also more general studies to explore the options -- including the infrastructural requirements
and options for developing appropriate mechanisms for making land available for FZ and
industrial estate development - for the development of Free Zones/Free Ports in Beira,
Nacala and elsewhere. (One question an early study should address is whether and when the
role of EO of the CZF should be spun off entirely from CPI, enabling the agency - once its
initial catalytic role has been achieved - to focus on broader concems of investment
promotion).
*  Funding for the requisite environmental work needed to support free zone development,
including the preparation of appropriate environmental guidelines - both for developers of
free zones, and for individual investors planning to locate within a zone -- and approval and
monitoring mechanisms. (Private FZ developers and private investors will be expected to
prepare their own environmental impact assessments, which they would present for review
as part of their bids for the site and/or investment applications). CPI will co-ordinate this
work with the Environment Ministry, both with respect to preparation of these guidelines, and
the establishment of appropriate approval and monitoring mechanisms.
As CPI has been a significant recipient of resources from the IERP project and is programmed to
continue to receive IDA (and perhaps other donor) resources through this Project, the transition
from one source of project funds to another provides a natural opportunity for an external review
of the organization's record thus far, and its proposed future strategy. This review will be



Page 54
initiated in the context of the completion of the IERP and will serve to confirm the support to be
provided under PoDE. The total cost of this sub-component is about US$10 million.
Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism
The Private Sector Development Unit (PSDU) within the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and
Tourism (MICTUR) has been instrumental in providing policy advice to the Ministry, reforming
the regulatory environment as defined in an IFC/FIAS report, "Mozambique - Administrative
Barriers to Investment: The Red Tape Analysis," and obtaining the necessary political support to
sustain these reforms. Under the guidance of the Economic Council of Ministers, measures to
reforn policies, practices, and institutions were taken. These included revisions to the
commercial and industrial policies and the textile and clothing sector strategy; modifications to
the labor and land laws; business registration, licensing and reporting requirements; import
procedures; and the transformation of the Investment Promotion Center from a regulatory body to
a promotional and facilitative agency. Ongoing work include: further simplification of the
regulatory environment (for example, commercial code and the industrial licensing law reform
and the introduction of altemative resolutions to disputes). The PSDU also established and
maintains an on-going dialogue and consultative process with representatives of the local
business associations (CTA) to ensure the private sector's concems are reflected in Government
policies and in mechanisms designed to enhance local business participation in investment
opportunities. It supported the publication of CTA's Business Directory and a Practical Guide to
Doing Business in Mozambique, and the development of regional cooperation programs with a
focus on cross-border trade. Funding for this policy and business support work was provided
under the IDA-financed Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project.
Under the sub-component for MICTUR, the Project will support the enhancement of the
Ministry's role in: the development and delivery of business facilitation and promotion services,
regulatory reform (including further work on the commercial code reform), and as a channel for
dialogue with the private sector. Regular roundtable discussions between the Ministry and the
private sector would be established to identify new policies and resolve policy implementation
constraints to private sector development. Studies on, for example, the collateralization and
transfer of immovable property in urban areas; an assessment of the metrology, standards, testing,
and quality control and support capacity in the country and considering regional practices and
performance; other measures that will enhance private investment and improve the enabling
environment for these activities will be conducted, and the resulting recommendations would be
translated into concrete policy and legislative proposals. An allocation of approximately US$1.2
million will cover consultancy services, studies, and training programs.
Regional Business Support Initiative
There appears to be consensus within Mozambique that, to foster the continuing consolidation of
CTA, its member associations also require strengthening. Can PoDE support this in a way which
is consistent with its overall approach.
The fundamental principle underlying PoDE is that support for the private sector should be
market-oriented and demand-driven. Building on this principle, the "regional business support
initiative" (RBSI) outlined below might perhaps be an attractive way of supporting economic
dialogue and the strengthening of associations at the regional level.
The objective of the RBSI would be to build and strengthen geographically-focused member-
based business organizations, motivated by a shared vision of how their local economy might
thrive, and engaged in a common program of action for realizing that vision. With parallel



Page 55
financing from other donors, possibly the Department for International Development (U.K.),
materializing, RBSI would support this objective in the following ways:
*  Step 1: In consultation with the steering committee, the RBSI manager will explore in which
regions there exists an initial group of forward-looking private sector actors interested in
participating in the RBSI, plus provincial and local authorities open to dialogue with the
private sector. The three regions with the strongest interest will be selected for the RBSI's
first round. (The goal will be to include all regions over the life of the initiative2).
* Step 2: In the regions selected, an external consultant will be invited to work with local
participants to prepare a medium-term local economic strategy. This strategy should include:
(a) identification of the region's potential competitive advantage (so-called "cluster"
analysis); (b) an identification of the primary regulatory, infrastructural and policy constraints
which inhibit the achievement of the region's potential, with special emphasis on those
constraints which it is in the power of local public and private actors to change; (c) a
sequenced set of actions for eliminating the constraints.
*  Step 3: As important as the substance of the analysis, is the process of engaging local players
in dialogue about the region's future. Throughout, the consultant should work in close
consultation with interested local participants -and progressively work to broaden the circle
of interest and participation. The consultant's work program should thus include - and its
success benchmarked against -- an explicit program for fostering such participation.
*  Step 4: The RBSI would use the resultant "shared vision" as a platforn for strengthening
local business associations by: (a) supporting, where needed, the formal process of
establishing such an association; (b) supporting the development of a business plan for the
association to follow through on the actions identified above; (c) providing some support for
the association to follow through in its first year of operations.
Expenditure per region is estimated at US$80,000 (with a minimum of 40 percent reserved for
step 3).
The implementation arrangements for the RBSI will be coordinated by the MC.
Sector-Specific Initiatives (SSI) Sub-component
Proactive sector-specific support to business advisory services for Mozambican firms would be
provided in the event other donors provide parallel funds. This is aimed at developing the
network of buyers, producers, traders and support institutions in up to three identified sectors of
economic activity aimed at stimulating broad based economic and private sector growth.
International experience has shown that the provision of general business advisory services are
2 The RBSI offers a special opportunity in relation to the three districts -- Mocimba da Praia, Palma (Cabo
Delgado) and Nacala Porto (Nampula) -- supported by the Global Environmental Facility's forthcoming
Mozambique Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Project (CMBP). One aim of the CMBP is to demonstrate
how environmental sustainability and private sector development can be jointly achieved. To help achieve
this goal, the CMBP will make available $100,000 additional matching funds for any of these districts
which might be selected for participation in the RBSI; these districts would use, as a backdrop for the RBSI
initiative, the environmentally and socially sustainable spatial development plan prepared as part of the
RBSI (Note that these three districts could, of course, choose to apply for RBSI support, independent of
the CMBP. Note also that the RBSI framework and management structure can be made available to use the
CMBP funds directly -- ie without PoDE resources -- along lines directly parallel to the RBSI exercises
conducted elsewhere, even if the three districts are not selected directly to be part of the RBSI initiative).



Page 56
complex, expert intensive, and relatively expensive, although such services have their own
contribution to make in deepening business growth activity within the private sector.
As part of the broadening of the private sector in Mozambique, the PSC and the management
team in the TLC will select up to three sector initiatives which exhibit two basic sets of
characteristics. Firstly, such sectors should be among those that demonstrate significant market
opportunities through research from the World Bank or other agencies, and from data within
Mozambique. Secondly, these sectors should demonstrate both geographic spread and potential
to employ poor people through relatively labor intensive activities with the objective of
enhancing broad based growth and employment.
Based on these criteria, the sector-specific initiative will commence with a four year program to
assist private enterprises in the handicraft sector, which will be implemented by a sub-contractor
through a competitive bid. Key features of the arrangements for the handicraft SSI pilot initiative
(and any subsequent initiatives) include the following:
*  The SSI will be managed and monitored intemally by a Sub-Contractor, with oversight by the
PSC. The initiative will be subject to the general review procedures of PoDE.
-  It is expected that the Sub-Contractor will provide a sustained presence in Mozambique with
an experienced handicrafts expert during t4e duration of the project. A presence will be
necessary at important times in the areas of production.
*  The SSI will be implemented in two phases. During the first phase, the subcontractor will
assess the marketplace (regional and foreign buyers, intermediaries and producers); initiate
contacts among the participants in the cluster, and new individual buyer-seller links; and
develop a strategy for the sector.
*  During the second phase, the contractor will work to achieve pre-specified participation and
export targets for the sector.
*  The SSI will work in tandem with the cost sharing grants offered by the FCO and the training
services provided by the TAO, enabling industry cluster participants which might otherwise
not be reached by virtue of their very small size, and very remote location, to make more
effective use of the grants.
If it is shown that an SSI can be successful, up to two other sectors of manufacturing activities
will receive similar business advisory services support, at a total cumulative cost, including
handicrafts, of US$5 million. Based on studies of enterprises and the above criteria, future
candidates for sector initiatives are expected to be the wood processing and food processing
sectors.
The implementation arrangements for the SSI will be defined and funded under parallel
arrangements agreed between the Government and other sponsoring donors in consultation with
IDA.



Page 57
ANNEX 7
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Table 1: Project Cost by Component
Cost  .     Cost~~~~ .   ...... w)
Technical Learning Component                     6.4              7.5           13.9
Firm Competitiveness Office                     1 9             4 0            5.9
Technical and Advisory Office                  3.9              2.4            6.3
Linkage Programn Office                        0 6               1.1           1.7
Finance Component                                4.2              8.5           127
Capacity Building Component                      4.5              12.9          17.4
CPI                                            2.3              7.6            9.9
MICTUR                                         0A               0.8            1.2
RBSI                                           0.4              0.7            1.1
Sector Specific Initiative                     1 4              3.8            5.2
Implementation                                   0.4              0.8            1.2
Unallocated                                      1.1              1.3            24
Total                                         16.6             31.0           47.6
Table 2: Project Cost by Category
Consulting services                6.9           16.1         23.0
Recurrent expenditures             2.5           0.6           3.1
Vehicles                           0.7            0 2          0.9
Equipment, fiuimiture              0.8            0.2          1.0
Training                           0 2            0.3          0.5
Credit                             3.1            9.4         12.5
Grant - Finance                    0.2            0 0          0.2
Grant - Technical Learning         1.4           2.6           4.0
Unallocated                        0.8            1.6          2.4
Total                           16.6           31.0         47.6



Page 58
Table 3: Project Financing by Component
.....~..-   . .                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .-.-.-.-...-..,.-.-....     ..
Technical Learning Component                       6.0               3.9             4.0            13.9
Firm Competitiveness Office                       2.0               2.1             1 8             5.9
Technical and Advisoiy Office                     2.8               1.3             2.2             6 3
Linkage Program Office                            1.2               0.5             0 0             1.7
Finance Component                                  10.0               0.0             2.7            12.7
Capacity Building Component                         7.0              10.1             0.3            1 7.4
CPI                                               4.7               4.9             0 3             9.9
MICTUR                                            12                0 0             0.0             1.2
RBSI                                              1.1               0.0             00              1 1
Sector Specific Initiative                        0.0               5.2             0 0             5.2
Implementation                                      0.6               0.5             0.1            1.2
Unallocated                                        2.4               0.0              0.0            2.4
Total                                            26.0              14.5            7.1            47.6



Page 59
ANNEX 8
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Institutional Arrangements
The UASP will be the coordinating and responsible agent for all procurement funded by the
Project. It will handle the procurement requests of each implementing agency according to
monthly procurement schedules submitted to it. It will have staff who are fully familiar with
Bank procurement procedures as they will be recruited from implementing agencies of other
Bank-funded projects. A Procurement Action Plan will be developed by the UASP and will be
incorporated in the PIP prior to credit effectiveness.
Procurement of Consulting Services
The selection and employment of consultants will be in accordance with the guidelines, the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999). The Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology
was used to select the firm  serving as the Management Contractor.  The selection and
employment of consultants by private beneficiaries and sub-borrowers for the matching grant
contracts amounting to less than US$50,000 will be in accordance with the Consultant's
Qualifications (CQ) method, procedures summarized in the PIP, and other commercial
procurement practices acceptable to IDA. Individual consultants will be recruited following
Section V of the guidelines, the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers.
Prior to procuring consulting services, IDA's review will be required for: (i) the first six contracts
procured under the Firm Competitiveness Office, the first six contracts procured under the
Technical Advisory Office (three each for Type A and Type B courses), and the first three
contracts procured under the RBSI component; (ii) all contracts with individuals with a contract
value of at least US$50,000; (iii) contracts with firms with a contract value of at least
US$100,000; and (iv) terms of reference for all contracts with the Steering Committee, the
Investment Promotion Center, and MICTUR. Local teams will work with the expatriate
management under the Technical Learning Component and technical consultants under the
Capacity Building Component in order to promote and strengthen local capacity through the
transfer of skills to the domestic industry.
Procurement of Goods
The purchase of goods and services would be in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines
(reference Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996). International competitive bidding is not envisaged under the project
given that there will be a number of implementing agencies whose timing requirements for goods
will differ throughout the project implementation period making it difficult to combine goods into
packages. Also, procurement contract values will be small. When possible and practicable,
procurement of goods would be combined into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 equivalent or more and procured under national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures. IAPSO and/or international shopping procedures may be used for the purchase of
goods.  Intemational shopping procedures would be used for the procurement of goods
(equipment, vehicles) for contracts with a maximum contract value of $50,000 (with an aggregate



Page 60
value of $150,000) and local shopping procedures would be used for individual contracts
amounting to US$30,000 (with an aggregate value of $100,000).
IDA's review will be required prior to procuring goods under NCB procedures for the first three
contracts of all the implementing agencies and for all contracts above US$100,000 except for
those under the Finance Component.
This Project has attracted the interest of a number of donors presently supporting private sector
development. It is expected that the donors would agree on common thresholds for procurement
under the different procurement methods, the use of pre- and post-review, standard documents
and procedures for advertising, evaluating and awarding the contracts, and reporting formats.
Table 1: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements3
(in US$ million equivalent)
{Consultancy services           0.0          0.0           8.3          16.2         24.5
(0.0)        (0.0)        (8.3)         (0.0)         (8.3)
Recurrent                       0.0         2.8            0.0          0.3           3.1
(0.0)       (1.6)          (0.0)        (0.0)         (1.6)
Vehicles                        0.5         0.4            0.0          0.3           1.2
(0.3)       (0.4)         (0. 0)        (0.0)         (0.7)
Equipment, furniture           0.1          0.5            0.0          0.6            1.2
(0 1)       (0.5)          (0.0)        (0.0)         (0.6)
Training                       0.0          0 4            0.4          0.1            0.9
(0.0)        (0.4)         (0.4)        (0.0)         (0.8)
Credit, financing grant         0.0         10.0           0.0          2.7          12.7
(0.0)      (10.0)         (0.0)         (0.0)       (10 0)
Grant, TLC                      0.0         0.0            0.0          4 0            4.0
(0.0)       (0.0)         (0.0)        (4.0)          (4.0)
Total                        0.6         14.1            8.7         24.2          47.6
(0.4)      (12.9)         (8.7)         (4.0)        (26.0)
NBF.        Government contribution         0.5 million
Beneficiary contribution       6.7 million
Other financing               17.0 million
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/lIDA credit.
For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to ODI 1.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).



Page 61
Table 2: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million)
2.0                              .0. 30:.,...0
A. irms          ~~(2.0)                              (1.0)                         (3.0)
B. Individuals                                                        5-3      16.2       21.5
(5.3)               (5.3)
Note  QCBS  =  Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  =   Quality-based Selection
SFB   =   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   =  Least-Cost Selection
CQ    =   Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other  =   Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B F. - Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table 3: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review4
(US$)                                         (J$
1. Goods            <$30,000   National shopping
<$50,000   International shopping
>$50,000 - NCB                  First 3 contracts below $100,000 and all
<$200,000                       contracts > $100,000 except those under the
Finance Component
2. Services
Firmns                                            >$100,000 and first 3 contracts of TAO (for each of A and B
courses) and RBSI
All TORs of the Capacity Building
Component
Individuals                                       >$50,000
All TORs of the Capacity Building
Component
4 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Page 62
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every
six month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Table 4: Allocation of Loan Proceeds 5
Goods including vehicles, equipment         0.7    100% foreign expenditures; 90% local
expenditures
Consultancy services                        6.7    100% of expenditures
Operating expenditures                      1 6    90% of expenditures
Training                                    0.6    90% of expenditures
Credit                                      9.8    100% of amounts disbursed
Grant, finance                              0 2     100% of amounts disbursed
Grant, TLC                                  4.0     1 00% of expenditures
Unallocated                                 2.4
Total                                     26.0
S Net of taxes for local expenditures



Page 63
ANNEX 9
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
General
The Unidade de Apoio ao Sector Privado (UASP) will be responsible for ensuring that financial
management and reporting procedures for PoDE will be acceptable to the World Bank and the
Government of Mozambique.
UASP's financial management system (FMS) must support management in their deployment of
limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the
delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. Specifically, the FMS mnust be capable
of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable
management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise PoDE's overall progress towards the
achievement of its objectives.
At this embryonic stage in the establishment of UASP's financial management system, UASP is
not yet ready for Project Management Report (PMR)-based disbursements, as discussed in the
World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September '98). Thus,
in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e. direct payment, reimbursement and special
commitment.
However, the development of UASP's financial management system, in accordance with the
Financial Management Action Plan presented below, is expected to facilitate the introduction of
PMR-based disbursements within about 18 months of credit effectiveness.
Financial Management Action Plan
PoDE Steering Committee
Regarding financial management issues, the PoDE Steering Committee (PSC) will be
responsible, in due course, for reviewing the PMR every quarter. The PMR will comprise:
(i) Financial Statements (see below). Members of the PSC will review and approve quarterly
and annual financial statements; they will also examine material variances between budget
and actual figures, seeking remedial action, as appropriate, within an agreed timeframe.
(ii) Project Progress, i.e., Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR
will need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying
narrative interpreting the Project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and
how costs to date relate to that planned at appraisal, and its likely effect on the Project at its
completion.
(iii)Procurement Management (goods and services - as appropriate).
Staffing/Capacity Building
The UASP Director will be appointed to direct and guide the financial management operations of
PoDE. Assisting the UASP Director will be a Chief Accountant and relevantly qualified and



Page 64
experienced accounting, administrative, procurement and support staff to be appointed. The
levels and number of such staff, including their terms of reference, will need to be finalized.
Varying levels of training may be required in: financial and management accounting; information
systems and computer applications; procedures relating to utilization of funds e.g. Special
Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement etc. "On the job coaching" will also be
provided.
Financial Procedures Manual - Internal Audit
The internal control procedures for UASP will be documented by the External Systems
Consultant in a Financial Procedures Manual that will be prepared prior to credit effectiveness.
Thereafter, the Manual will be a "living document" and will be updated regularly by the Chief
Accountant to meet evolving needs.
The activities of the Project will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit of the
Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF).
Information Technology
UASP's information technology requirements will be determined prior to credit effectiveness by
the External Systems Consultants.
Planning and Budgeting
Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with Government's budgetary process.
In consultation with the PSC, the Director of UASP and the Chief Accountant and will be
responsible for budget preparation, including the Project's quarterly and annual cash flow
forecast. An indicative format of presentation is contained in Annex 6 of The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, a September 1998 publication of the World
Bank).
The budget will ultimately be approved by MPF in consultation with MICTUR.
Government Accounting - Cash versus Accruals
As UASP is an integral part of MICTUR, UASP must meet MPF's requirement for cash
accounting. This requirement is not expected to change in the short/medium-term. Thus, for the
foreseeable future, IDA and related counterpart funds will be accounted for by UASP on a cash
basis.
In due course, for management reporting purposes, the PSC will decide whether to convert to an
accruals basis of accounting.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
The UASP Director, Chief Accountant, and members of staff will be conversant with
procurement procedures, as internal control issues and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of
UASP will be matters of particular concern to the financial management function.
The PMR, showing procurement status and contract commitments as appropriate, will be
prepared quarterly for consideration by the PSC.



Page 65
Procurement procedures will comply with World Bank and Government requirements and will be
documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Banking Activities - Flow Of Funds
For IDA and Government of Mozambique funding, UASP will maintain 3 bank accounts as
follows:
(i) a special account in US Dollars/Meticais at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA that will
show: (i) dollar and meticais cost of any direct payments to suppliers; (ii) dollar advances
(meticais equivalent cost) from the IDA loan account; (iii) opening and closing balances.
(ii) IDA loan account (Washington) in US dollars, meticais, SDR that will show: (i) cost of
transfers to the special account; (ii) cost of any direct payments to suppliers; (iii) opening
and closing balances.
(iii) current account in meticais at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which counterpart
funding by Government will be deposited. Initially, a 2 months float will be deposited and
it will be replenished thereafter in compliance with Government procedures.
All three bank accounts will be reconciled with bank statements on a monthly basis.
Reconciliations will be approved by the UASP Director and chief accountant on a timely basis;
identified differences will be expeditiously investigated.
Control procedures (e.g. cheque signatories, supporting documentation, payments, transfers etc.)
will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawals and Disbursement
At this embryonic stage in the establishment of UASP's financial management system, UASP is
not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements, as discussed in the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September '98). Thus, in the short-term,
existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook, will
be followed i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.
The appointment of the Chief Accountant as well as the establishment and strengthening of
UASP's financial management system, is expected to facilitate the introduction of PMR-based
disbursements within about 18 months of credit effectiveness.
LACI/PMR has many merits. It integrates project accounting, procurement, contract
management, disbursement and audit with physical progress through the Project Management
Report (PMR). In due course, the adoption of LACI/PMR by UASP will enable it to move away
from time-consuming voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to
the Project's Special Account, based on the PMR.
Monitoring Activities
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked for capital expenditure.
Status Reports in respect of the activities undertaken by the Management Contractor and UASP
will be prepared quarterly for consideration by the PSC.



Page 66
The control and reporting procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Financial Reporting
Monthly Cash Reporting
In compliance with Government reporting requirements, the Chief Accountant will be responsible
for preparing a monthly return to the National Director of Public Accounting at MPF for
incorporation into the National Accounts.
Quarterly and Annually
The Financial Statements, following determination by the PSC, are likely to include:
(i) Statement of sources and uses of funds by loan category and by activity;
(ii) Project balance sheet as at the reporting date;
(iii) Notes in respect of: significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by
management when preparing the accounts; and any supplementary information or
explanations that may be deemed appropriate by management in order to enhance the
presentation of a "tfrue andfair view ".
(iv) Special account statement and reconciliation showing deposits and replenishments received,
payments substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the
account and the balance at the end of the fiscal year;
(v) SOE  withdrawal schedule, listing  individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
(vi) Cash Forecast for the next 2 quarters.
Indicative formats for financial statements are outlined in two World Bank publications i.e.
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995) and The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September, 1998).
External Audit
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on acceptable terms
of reference. The external auditor will also be expected to prepare a separate management letter
giving observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of
accounting records, systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.



Page 67
ANNEX 10
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The approach
The economic analysis of this type of private sector development project presents an unusual
challenge. The challenge lies in the fact that the project aims not to support investments that
otherwise would not have happened, but rather to accelerate a process that in a liberalized
environment might otherwise have evolved spontaneously - but much more slowly. Despite these
difficulties, an attempt has been made to present a quantified measure of the benefits that are
expected from the project.
A cost-benefit analysis framework has been used to calculate the Net Present Value (NPV) and
Economic Rate of Return (ERR). As Table 1 summarizes, the economic analysis has produced an
NPV of US 23.7 million at a discount rate of 12 percent and an ERR of 24.7 percent. These rates
of return emerge straightforwardly from calculations of the difference between two paths of
output expansion - with and without the project.6
Table 1: Economic Analysis Summary
1. Technical Learning in Firms-       33 8              1 7 6             38.4
Firm Competitiveness, Training
& Advisory and Linkages
Program
2. Capacity Building- Investment      20.5                2.6             15.2
Promotion, MICTUR, Regional
Business Support & Sector
Specific Initiatives
3 Finance - Special and               15 98               3.4             20 8
Traditional Facilities
Total Project                         70.3              23.7              24.7
Assumptions and results
The economic analysis makes four sets of simplifying assumptions. A first set of simplifications
is to narrow the scope of what to measure. While the projected acceleration in growth also
accelerates the generation of externalities, both positive and negative, to keep the analysis
tractable these impacts are assumed to offset one another and hence excluded from the
quantitative analysis. Relatively, other than the "opportunity cost" adjustment described below,
no effort will be made to adjust for differences between market and economic prices of, say, labor
or capital.
6 Same method has been applied by the World Bank on similar programs with Matching Grant Schemes
See Report #16524-ZA. Zambia Enterprise Development Project, SAR, 1997, Report #15062-ZIM -
Zimbabwe. Enterprise Development Project. SAR. 1996 and Cote d'Ivoire: Private Sector Development -
Capacity Building Project, PAD, 1998, Report # 1 7940-IVC.



Page 68
The remaining three sets of assumptions comprise estimates of specific magnitudes needed for
calculations of the economic rates of return to the project (and are implicit in Chart 1 and Table
2). These are:
*  Assumptions as to the level of exports/competitive production that might be expected at a
new "high equilibrium" from Mozambican firms in a liberalized environment, as compared
with the pre-existing zero/low export equilibrium.
*  Assumptions as to the extent to which the PoDE interventions accelerate the initiation of
adjustment from the pre-existing, low level to the new, higher equilibrium (i.e., by how much
time the PoDE brings forward the initiation of adjustment).
*  Assumptions as to the opportunity cost of the resources drawn into export production (ie the
extent to which the resources were either diverted from alternative, lower value uses or, at the
limit, previously unutilized, implying that all production is incremental).
This annex calculates the economic rate of return for the project based on specific assumptions as
to these values, then uses sensitivity analysis to explore the robustness of the results with different
assumptions.
For the Technical Learning in Firm Component, empirical evidence in similar schemes in East
Asian countries, points to an output increase equal to about 15 times of the matching grant
amount; to be conservative, the calculations here presume an output increase of only 10 times the
grant amount. The total grant amount equals US$6 million, so the assumption implies an
export/competitive output expansion of US$60 million. Note that it is not being assumed that the
matching grants caused directly a US$60 million increase in the export-related output of
Mozambique's private sector. The fundamental cause is economic reform. Rather (as noted
above), the assumption is that the PoDE accelerated the pace of this adjustment - by an assumed
three years. Following a conservative logic (especially in the light of widespread low utilization
of fixed investment, and widespread unemployment) it is further assumed that 67 percent of the
resources used for this increased production are diverted from other economic activities (i.e. only
one-third of the increase is presumed to be genuinely incremental).
For the Finance component, it is assumed that investment and pernanent working capital
financing increases in output equal to the value of the amount lent. Average lending turnover is
assumed at twice per project life of four years, and a five percent default rate per year is also
postulated. The acceleration and opportunity cost assumptions are the same as for the Technical
Learning in Firm Component.



Page 69
Table 2: Cash Flow and Output Determinants of Economic Results
H2FC-
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8
I Technical     ~~68      16 1       1 7      62      118    15 5    11 0      55
Learning in Firms
- Firm
Competitiveness,
Training &
Advisory and
Linkages
2 Capacity Building9   84179                -            -  3-4  -r76 -      s       6      4       04
- Investment
Promotion,
MICTUR and
Regional Business
Support           _______    ______.
3 Finance- Special  1O8         13 6       227      5 0     64      5 6     33       0 I
and Traditional
Facilities
Total Project        26.0       47.6       4.4    11.2    21.6    28.7    26.0    15.1      4.5   0.4
Measurement of economic benefits of Capacity Building Component support in the regulatory
environment and investment promotion is difficult because they furnish provision of services to
firms indirectly. For the sake of consistency, it was assumed that the support provided would
increase efficiency of the supported recipients and would yield an increase in economic outputs at
a multiple of five times the amount of support.
Table 2 summarizes the net increases in output implied by the assumptions described above. As
Chart I illustrates, the economic results in Table 1 comprise the present value calculations of
these net output increases -- the difference between the first scenario of increases in output
resulting from the project and the same scenario, three years behind it. The results suggest that the
overall project can be strongly justified in NPV and ERR terms. The Technical Learning in
Firnms component showed a high rate of return of 38.4 percente0. The pay-back period for the
investment is estimated at three years.
7 Includes $2.4 million Unallocated which has been divided by three and added to each component.
a Reduced by 2/3.
9 Includes 0.5 million for Project Management costs
10 Similar schemes in Zimbabwe showed an ERR of 46 percent and that of Zambia's showed 42 percent. It
therefore means that the scheme is highly profitable.



Page 70
Chart 1: Summary of Project Economic Effects
120,000.000 
100,000,000 C-   -                     . -        .  X              - 
80,000.000t  --------- -                              ----------- -- -- -
0              /              \      /                            l  !   Project
E
0
CO  eo oo o 000- ,000   -   ~  ---- -  -   --~ ~   /-  ------  ------    -----    --------   ----i-i
*=  /                  /\                              t  t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Without 
20,000,000                                                 - -   --  -
i *-Net Effect
after
--Adjustment 
1      2      3      4       5      6       7      8      0      10
Years
Sensitivity Analysis
The sensitivity analysis for the overall project switched values on the Technical Learning in
Firms and Finance components and kept the Capacity Building disbursements as in base case
scenario.
The first evaluation was done by elongating the disbursement over a period of 9 years, the effect
on the project was that the NPV was reduced from US$ 23.7 million to US$ 16.0 million and the
ERR from 24.7 percent to 18.9 percent. This suggested that a slower implementation period will
not have a material effect on the economic impact of the project.
The second evaluation was done by modifying the reduction in the level of output attributed to
diversion from other resources. Reducing the level of reduction in the level of output from 67
percent (the base case) to 50 percent, increases the NPV significantly to US$ 59.3 million with an
ERR of 39.8 percent. Increasing the reduction to 75 percent still leaves the NPV positive, at US$
5.8 million. Thus, although the outcomes are sensitive to the effects of modifying this variable, all
of the outcomes presented positive NPV within the parameters (50-78 percent reduction)
established in the theoretical foundation for this approach.



Page 71
Table 3: Sensitivity Analysis Summary
$c(kwia  S( it_vity     Cases          :aRiable       N,V       ERR
Per$orr*~~~~d            Amo~~qt     ($millipp) (%
Overall Project
Delayed Project     Elongated           (a) Base       (a) Regular        23.7        24.7
Implementation      Disbursement period
(b) Alternate   (b) Slow         16.0         18.9
Change in Diversion   Percent reduction in  (a) Base   (a) 67%            23.7        24.7
Assumption          increase in Output                 Reduction
attributed to
diversion from other               (b) 75%
sources            (b) Alternate    Reduction         5.8         15.4
(c) Altemate   (c) 50%           59.3        39.8
Reduction
Technical Learning   Increase in expected  (a) Base    (a) 10 Times       17.6        38.4
in Firm             change in output for
each firmn         (b) Alternate   (b) 15 Times      34.6        57.0
Finance             Assumed turnover   (a) Base        (a) 2 Times         3.4        20.8
rate per project's life
(b) Alternate   (b) 3 Times      10.7        37.5
(c) Alternate   (c) 1.7 Times -   0.0         12.0
break-even case
Capacity Building   Output increases as   (a) Base     a) 5 Times          2.6        15.2
a multiple of support
amounts            (b) Alternate   (b) 10 Times      22.6        32.7
(c) Alternate   (c) 4.3 Times -   0.0         12.0
break-even case
An evaluation was done on the Technical Learning in Firms component base case scenario by
switching the expected increase in output for each firm from 10 to 15 as that of the East Asian
countries and Kenya. The results showed an NPV of US$ 34.6 million and an ERR of 57.0
percent, thus twice the amounts in the base case. Meanwhile, on the other hand, the multiple
value can go as low as 6 before the NPV becomes negative.
An evaluation was done on the Finance component, testing how changes in the assumed rate of
turnover of the firms financed would affect the economic results (using the evaluation of three
year lag as above). The base case assumes that, in the firms, turnover could be twice per project's
life of four years, with output increasing at the level of financing. Thus, by reducing the assumed
level of turnover from two times per four years to one, the sub-component resulted into a negative
NPV. The break even point was 1.7 times turnover per project's life of four years. This suggests
that the downside risk in these terms is relatively significant. On the other hand, the degree to



Page 72
which output is affected depends on how much supported firms can increase production as a
result of easing the financing constraint; the assumption above is a conservative one.
The evaluation of the Capacity Building component first examined the relationship between the
level of support and the expected level of output. The base case assumed that for each US$1.00 of
support, output increased by a multiple of 5 times the support, albeit two years after
disbursement. Changing the ratio to 10 resulted in NPV of US$ 22.6 million with an ERR of 32.7
percent. The break-even point to reach 12 percent ERR threshold is for output to increase 4.2
times the level of support, two years after disbursement.



Page 73
ANNEX 11
PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
Project*coute        -i .ned  (At i,                                   .    Actual
-- - - . ~~~PC D stage)                           -   _   _  __   _   _
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    03/01/1998               05/18/1998
First Bank mission (pre-appraisal)            06/07/1998               06/26/1998
Appraisal mission departure                   02/28/1999               03/10/1999
Negotiations                                  03/30/1999               08/16/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 07/15/1999
Prepared by: MICTUR
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant TF025088
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Spelty
Arnold Sowa                              Private Sector
Brian Levy                               Private Sector
Simon Gray                               Private Sector
Marilyn S. Manalo                        Operations Officer
Sherri Archondo                          Operations Officer
Simon Bell                               Financial Sector
Tyler Biggs                              Private Sector
Omowale Crenshaw                         Small Business
Mark Dorfman                             Financial Sector
Lucy Fye                                 Economist
Anthony Hegarty                          Financial Management Specialist
Paul Murgatroyd                          Financial Sector
Judith Press                             Export processing zones
Tomas Sales                              Finance
Francesco Sarno                          Principal Procurement Sepecialist
Andrew Singer                            Cost-sharing grant schemes
Jose Sugar                               Sr. Disbursement Officer
Gerald Tyler                             Handicraft
Kishor Uprety                            Counsel
Irene Chacon                             Program Assistant
Judite Femandes                          Task Team Assistant



Page 74
ANNEX 12
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
RPED, "Review of Business Environment in Mozambique," mimeo, January 1999.
Center for Investment Promotion. Three year strategy plan, 1999-2002.
*Including electronic files.



CAS Annex B8
Generated: 12/22/99
Page 75
ANNEX 13
Status of Bank Group Operations in Mozambique
Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual                  Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/       Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                           Purpose
IBRD       IDA      Cancel.       Undisb.      Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj   Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 20
Active Projects
MZ-PE-1784      1990   GOVT                              INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRIS                      0.00       50.10        0.00         9.75        4.21         4.07      S           S
MZ-PE-1781      1992   GOVT.                             AGR.SER. REHAB.                           0.00       35.00       12.30         8.54       18.01         1.95      S           S
MZ-PE-1810      1993   GOM                               LEG & PUB SEC. CAPAC                      0.00       15.50        2.93          .94        3.91         1.23      S           S
MZ-PE-1797      1993   GOM                               CAPACITY BUILDING(HU                      0.00       48.60        0.00        17.31       19.02         0.00      S           S
MZ-PE-1796      1993   GOVERNMENT                        RURAL REHABILITATION                      0.00       20.00        0.00         4.23        4.09         0.00      S           s
MZ-PE-1811      1994   GOM                               FINANCE SECTOR CAPAC                      0.00        9.00        0.00         3.79        3.54         0.00      S           S
MZ-PE-1804      1994   GOVERNMENT                        2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                       0.00      188.00        0.00        77.74       54.53         0.00      S           S
MZ-PE-1780      1994   GOVT                              GAS ENGINEERING(ENGY                      0. 00      30.00        0.00         9.73        9. 33        0.00      S           S
MZ-PE-1792      1996   GOVT                              HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                       0.00       98.70        0.00        72.06       55.30         0.00      S           S
MZ-PE-39015     1998   GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE          NATIONAL WATER I                          0.00       36.00        0.00        32.80        2.81         0.00      S           S
MZ-PE-52240     1999   GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE          NATIONAL WATER II                         0.00       75.00        0.00        74.14        0.00         0.00      S           s
MZ-PE-1799      1999   REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE            AGRIC SECTOR PEP                          0.00       30.00        0.00        29.04        2.01         0.00      S           S
MZ-PE-1786      1999   GOVT. OF MOZAMBIQUE               GEN.EDUC.SEC.EXP.PRO                      0.00       71.00        0.00        68.38        1.38         0.00      S           S
Total                                                                                             0.00      706.90        15.23       408.45      178.14        7.25
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 273.40            1,098.81            1,372.21
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                7.96                7.96
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 691.67            1,066.36            1,758.03
Amount sold                      :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              408.45               23.53              431.98
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



CAS AnnexB8
Page 76
ANNEX 14
Mozambique
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992                   Polana Hotel             1.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.58    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                   AEF Bonar                .26    0.00    0.00    0.00       .26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   AEF Cahora Bassa         .21    0.00    0.00    0.00       .21    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   BIM                     0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   Caju Mocita             2.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   Agrimo                  2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   MOZAL                  55.00    0.00   65.00    0.00    7.50    0.00   32.50    0.00
1997                   SEF CPZ                  1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                   SEF CTOX                 .73    0.00    0.00    0.00      .73    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                   BIM-INV                 0.00      .30    0.00    0.00    0.00      .30    0.00    0.00
1998                   SEF Joao Jamal            .24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   SEF ROBEIRA              .23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   63.82    5.30   65.00    0.00   15.85    5.30   32.50    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997                   AEF AFRISTEM             .57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                   BIM                    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   MARAGRA SUGAR           10.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   SEF CTN                  .67    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                   SEF EXTRAMAC             .42    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Conuriitnent:        21.96    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 12/22/99



Page 77                                           ANNEX 14
Mozambique at a glance                                                                  9/22/99
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Mozambique      Africa  income       Development diamond*
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       16.9      628      3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    210       480       520
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       3.6      304      1,844
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population ()                                        2.4        2.6       1.7     GN                              G
Labor force(%)                                         2.1       2.6       1.9     GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                              pet                            primary
capt                        enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national poverty line)  69
Urban population (% of total population)               38        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       47        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIve births)              134        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             41         ..        ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 24        47        74
Illiteracy (% of populatlon age 15+)                   60        42        32
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofschool-age populalIon)      71        77       108                 Mozambique
Male                                                 79        84       113            -Low-income group
Female                                               60        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977    1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                             .,     2.4        3.4       3.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  ..    12.0       19.1      20.4
Exports of goods and services/GDP              ..      6.6      12.7      11.7                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..   -12.7        1.6       1.7
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..   -10.1        1.6       0.8
Current account balance/GDP                    ..   -19.6      -12.5    -15.9      .o/si
Interest payments paid/GDP /a                 ..      0.6        1.5       1.5     Domestc                     Investment
Total debt/GDP /a                              ..   171.8      216.4    214.3      Savings
Total debt servicelexports/i                  ..    18.1        20.9      27.4
Present value of debt/GDP /b                   ..       ..    128.3       91.0
Present value of debt/exports lb               ..       ..    770.4    699.2
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98    1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 -3.9      4.7     11.3      12.0       7.7             -Mozambique
GNP per capita                      -7.0      2.7      9.7       9.3       5.3                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -14.0     15.8     -1,9       6.5      23.4                                     - - - _ _ _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(%6 of GDP)
Aqriculture                                    ..    44.1       34.8      34.3    40
Industry                                       ..    21.4       19.1      20.8    30
Manufacturing                                ..       ..      11.3      10.5    20
Services                                       ..    34.4       46.1      44.8    10
0
Private consumption                            ,.   102.9       90.9      89.0    -10     93   94   95          97   99
General government consumption                 ..      9.9       7.4       9.3                    GDI      -eGDP
Imports of goods and services                  ..    31.4       30.2      30.5
1977-87  1988-98     1997     1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    ..      3.1       7.6       7.0    s0
Industry                                       ..      5.3      23.9      22.9
Manufacturing                                ..       ..      29.8       7.5    25
Services                                       ..      5.7       7.1       9.7 .
Private consumption                          -5.0     2.4        8.3      11.8     o      907
General government consumption               -4.8    -5.7        9.9      32.2       .
Gross domestic investment                    0.5       7.4      17.1      29.4   -25
Imports of goods and services                -6.7     0.1        0.7      24.2                  Exports        l 6  Imports
Gross national product                       -4.8      4.8      12.2      11.8
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) comnoared with its income-arouo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 78
Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            5T
Consumer prices                                ..   164.1         6.4       0.6    so
Implicit GOP deflator                          ..   181.5        11.1       3.8
Govemment finance                                                                   25
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..    11.4       16.0      15.7            93   54   95   55   97   55
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.9         5.3       4.3                   GDP deflator      0P1
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -11.8        -7.5      -6.5
TRADE
1977     1987      1997      1998
(USm$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..       97       230        248     1,000
Cashews                                      48       31         29        41
Prawns                                       11       38         85        73      750
Manufactures                                 11         0        20        14
Total imports (cifi.                                   642        760      868        0
Food P   (                                                       30        32      2o0
Fuel and energy..                                       .        78        84
Capitaloods                                                     154       211 go
Export price index (1995=100)                          104        99        95            92  93  94  s5  96  97  98
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      74        91         88   |           Exports      Ulkports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)                       ..      140        108       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998 F
(US$ amilions)                                                                       Current account balance to GDP ratio (1/)
Exports of goods and services                          176       Sm         534      0
Imports of goods and services                   ..     699       938      1,115
Resource balance                                ..    -523       -429     -581      59
Net income                                            -7          13       -1       1
Net current transfers23                                            8        19
Current account balance                         .      1-460     -431      -619
Financing items (net)                          ..      519       548       681      3
Changes in net reserves                        ..    -58         -115       -62
Memo:
Reserves includinq gold (US$ millions)          ..     139       532       571
Conversion rate (DEC, localUSS)              33.0    290.7  11,545.6  11,850.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987      1997      1998 1
(US$ millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed /a        ..   4,043       7,439     8,344
IBRD                                          .        0         0          0
IDA                                           ..      87      1,162     1,335                               B: 1,335
Total debt service paid/I                      ..       42        119       159          F:1,975
IBRD                                                   0         0          0                                    c:204
IDA                                                              10        12
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..    304         313       313
Official creditors /c                        ..    261         285       295
Private creditors                            ..       46        69        43
Foreign direct investment                    ..        6        64       213
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..         ..        ..                     E: 4,265
World Bank proqram
Commitments Id                               ..    111          100        36     A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
B- IDA    D0- Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                                 *       48       148        131     c - IMF                       G - Short-term
Principal repayments                         ..        4         2          3
Net flows                                     ..      45        147       128                 __                  _
Interest payments                            ..        0         8          9
Net transfers                                ..       44        139       119
World Bank                                                                                                            9/22/99
a. After rescheduling in Naples terms. b. Excluding private debt. c. Excluding IMF and including debt relief on current payments.
d. Includes the US$ 150 million grant under the Economic Management Reform Operation provided as HIPC Initiative interim assistance.



,f,                                                                                                                                                                             401 ~~~~~-  --'
0                      TAkI7AK1I)c                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PALMA    '
C,]  \  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    o        r~~~~~~~' ~~MUEDA005
MoEsMOrCU>] -A
12,
SANGA~ ~ ~ ~ Crenl nA-prtoa
'GO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Ts  o   spos.  c       o   ecnUn  fTeWrdBo
Thooscdo~  clor   MONo,o   s   ooho   froio   los
I  S A                                                                         6c csI  c h  or  fTh   ol Bc   rcp  o
0                                                                                                     1sd~o,doto  ike le~ol stoics of ony iorr4o,y~or eny co  reeroARR  oA
540                                                     -.~- occepionco o sock bouodor e
so  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    0~~~~~~~~~~~-' ~      ~        ~        ~       AA                      CIR



