                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000173




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
          (IDA-33170, IDA-3317A, EECT-28406, NORW-24286 UK-27799)




                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF 19.2 SDR
                          (US$ 26 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                                     FOR THE

                      ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                  January 29, 2007




Private and Financial Sector Unit
Country Department 2
Africa Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        ( Exchange Rate Effective 11/29/2006 )
                             Currency Unit = MZN
                                 MZN 1.00 = US$ 0.0369959
                                  US$ 1.00 = MZN 27.0300


                                       Fiscal Year
                               January 1 - December 31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCI   Bank of Commerce and Investment (Banco Comercial e de Investimentos)
BDS   Business Development Service
BOM   Bank of Mozambique
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CBC   Capacity Building Component
CMBP  Coastal and Marina Biodiversity Project
COD   Credit Operations Department
CPI   Investment Promotion Center (Centro de Promo,co para o Investimento)
CPS   Country Partnership Strategy
CTA   Commission of Economic Associations
DFID  UK Department for International Development
EPZ   Export Processing Zone
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
EU    European Union
FC    Financial Component
FCO   Firm Competitiveness Office
FIAS  Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FZ    Free Zone
      Small Investment Promotion Company (Sociedad de Promoçao de Pequenos
GAPI
      Investimenos)
HQ    Headquarter
ICR   Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA   International Development Agency
IERP  Industrial Enterprise Restructuring Project (IDA Credit 2081)
IFC   International Finance Cooperation
IFZ   Industrial Free Zone
LOA   World Bank Loan Administration Department
LPO   Linkage Program Office
MIC   Ministry of Industry and Commerce

         Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism (Ministerio da Indudstrial, Comercio et
MICTUR
         Turismo)
MIGA     Multilateral Investment Garauntee Agency
MITUR    Ministry of Tourism
MOZAL Mozambique Aluminum
NORAD Norwegan Aid
PDO      Project Development Objective
PFI      Participating Financial Institution
PIB-ZF   Beluluane Industrial Park Projects
PMR      Project Management Report
PSD      Private Sector Development
PoDE     Enterprise Development Project (Projecto para o Desenvolvimento Empresarial)
PoDE
         Project Technical Learning Component
CAT
RBSI     Regional Business Support Initiative
RPED     Africa Regional Program for Enterprise Development
SASOL    South African Oil Company
SMEDP    Small & Medium Enterprise Development Project (IDA Credit 2082)
SMEs     Small and Medium Enterprises
SSI      Sector-Specific Initiatives
TAO      Training and Advisory Office
TLC      Technical Learning Component
UASP     Project Implementation Unit (Unidade de Apoio ao Sector Privado)
USAID    United State Aid Agency for International Development




         Vice President: Hartwig Schafer

       Country Director: Michael Baxter

        Sector Manager: Demba Ba

    Project Team Leader: Gilberto de Barros

                                                  Mozambique
                                         Enterprise Development




                                                  CONTENTS




                                                                                                                   Page No.
1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 19
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 22
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 23
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 25
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 29
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 32
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 43
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 45
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 48
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 49
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 50
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 51
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 60
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 62
MAP.............................................................................................................................. 63

1. Basic Information
Country:                Mozambique            Project Name:           Enterprise Dev (FY00)
                                                                      EECT-28406,IDA-

Project ID:             P049874               L/C/TF Number(s):       33170,IDA-
                                                                      3317A,NORW-
                                                                      24286,UK-27799
ICR Date:               01/29/2007            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                      MOZAMBIQUE
Original Total
Commitment:             XDR 19.2M             Disbursed Amount:       XDR 16.9M

Environmental Category:C
Implementing Agencies

Unidade de Apoio ao Sector Privado
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process        Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review: 05/21/1998           Effectiveness:    08/31/2000         08/31/2000
Appraisal:         03/01/1999        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          01/27/2000        Mid-term Review:                     04/10/2003
                                     Closing:          06/30/2005         06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  Yes           Quality at Entry (QEA):          None

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):    None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                      Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               28               41
Micro- and SME finance                                          43               19
General industry and trade sector                               29               40
                                                  Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Small and medium enterprise support                Secondary         Primary
Other financial and private sector development     Primary           Secondary
Export development and competitiveness             Primary           Primary


5. Bank Staff
                        Positions                      At ICR         At Approval

Vice President:                                   Hartwig Schafer   Callisto E.
                                                                    Madavo
Country Director:                                 Michael Baxter    Darius Mans
Sector Manager:                                   Demba Ba          Demba Ba

Project Team Leader:                              Gilberto de BarrosMarilyn Swann
                                                                    Manalo
ICR Team Leader:                                  Mazen Bouri
ICR Primary Author:                               Mazen Bouri




                                              2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


At the time of the project design in late 1990s, Mozambique had successfully completed
an ambitious program of "first generation" economic reforms. As a result of these
reforms, the overall macro-economic indicators were favorable with low inflation, a
stable exchange rate, and tight fiscal and monetary policies. Additionally, the
government had undertaken significant structural reforms with the elimination of non-
tariff trade barriers and the privatization and liquidation of over 800 public enterprises.
GDP annual growth rate was more than 10 percent in 1997 and 1998. This performance
was dramatic in view of the country's history of colonialism, followed by independence
in 1975 under a Marxist regime, and then a long and devastating civil war that ended in
the early 1990s with a national unity coalition.

Against this backdrop the Mozambican government decided to pursue "second
generation" reforms which aimed to sustain economic growth and broaden the base of
private sector participation. Studies conducted by the IFC and FIAS in 1996-97 followed
by a survey of 150 firms conducted in 1998 by the Africa Regional Program of Enterprise
Development (RPED) identified key areas that needed to be addressed to improve the
business environment. Amongst those were: modification of labor and land laws;
business registration, licensing and reporting requirements; import procedures; and
investment promotion. Additionally, access to finance was seen as a binding constraint,
especially on the small and medium enterprise sector. The government indicated to the
Bank its strong commitment on moving rapidly to address the obstacles to private sector
expansion.

From the Bank's side, the CAS objective called for "promoting broad-based private
sector-led growth" by facilitating the participation of an increasing number of
Mozambican firms in the growth process. The proposed PoDE (Projecto para o
Desenvolvimento Empresarial) Project was conceived as one element of a broader donor
community supported program for private sector development. The Project was to work
on three distinct but complementary tracks. One was to provide support to private firms
through promoting their access to training, consultancy, and linkages. The second was to
promote access to finance. The third was to build the capacity of selected government
and non-government agencies to enable them to provide better professional services to
the private sector and to remove business environment constraints.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project's objective was to help broaden the base of private participation in
Mozambican economic growth. This would be achieved by: (i) boosting the
competitiveness of Mozambican private firms by strengthening their access to, and use of



                                               3

support services; (ii) providing a more efficient market for training and capacity building
services and establishing forward and backward linkages to existing and new local and
foreign buyers and investors; (iii) enhancing access to term finance by both first-time and
other borrowers; and (iv) helping to strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce, Trade and Tourism, the Investment Promotion Center, and
business organizations with potential to improve the business environment.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The PDO and associated outcome indicators were not revised.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The PAD identified the primary target group as: (i) approximately 200 small and medium
sized businesses that are exporting or show the potential to export (with at least 20
percent of these firms to have been established in 1995 or later and at least 30 percent
operating outside Maputo); (ii) at least 30 local firms that could become suppliers to
larger foreign investors operating within the country; and (iii) local firms supplying the
domestic market. The secondary target populations identified by the PAD are the
employees of the primary target firms, firms and employees that benefit from employees'
income, and firms that provide inputs and services to exporting firms. In addition to the
domestic private sector, PoDE aimed to build the capacity of a number of government
and non-government partners in order to enhance their delivery of services and to
improve the business environment.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism (MICTUR), in its capacity as
Government representative, formally delegated the responsibilities of the Project to
PoDE's Advisory Committee, which was accountable to MICTUR and jointly co-chaired
by the Ministry and the Confederation of Business Associations (CTA) acting in
representation of the private sector. The responsibility for the day-to-day management of
PoDE lay with the Unidade de Apoio ao Sector Privado (UASP), whose task was to
ensure overall financial and administrative support to the designated project components'
implementing agencies. Specifically, the UASP's roles were to: provide support to all
PoDE's components in terms of procurement; ensure adequate funding of and prompt
disbursement for project activities; and receive all quarterly progress, audit, mid-term
and implementation completion reports from implementing agencies for review and
submission to Advisory Committee, the Government, and IDA.

A. Technical Learning in Firms Component (TLC)( US$ 6 million IDA Allocated




                                             4

with US$ 7.9 million in additional donor financing)

    The component consisted of three sub-components:

    1. Firm Competitiveness Office (FCO). The objective of this sub-component was to
        boost the competitiveness of firms by promoting their access to consultancy
        services on a 50 percent matching grant basis.
    2. Training and Advisory Office (TAO). The objectives of this sub-component were
        to support the development of an active business and technical training market.
        Matching grants of 50 percent would be made available to qualified trainers to
        provide training services to local firms.
    3. Linkage Program Office (LPO). The objective of this office was to facilitate
        supply linkages between Mozambican supplier firms and joint-venture or foreign-
        owned firms in Mozambique.

The management of these three sub-components would be delegated to a private
management contractor under the overall oversight of the Project Advisory Committee.
The joint management of the three sub-components would facilitate information sharing,
guiding firms towards appropriate services, fostering evolution of firms from one
program to another, and realizing economies in administration

B. Finance Component ( US$ 10 million IDA Allocated)

This component's objective was to promote access to term financing by local firms in
order to meet their investment and financing requirements. A line of credit of up to US$
10 million would be made available to eligible financial institutions, referred to as
participating financial institutions (PFIs). Borrowers would contribute US$ 2.7 million as
additional investment in their business. Two financial products will be available for
firms under this component: (i) a special facility designed to provide very small, first-
time bank borrowers with loans amounting to a maximum of $15,000; and (ii) a
traditional facility to finance loans up to $300,000 for small and medium-scale
borrowers. The Bank of Mozambique (BoM) would be responsible for verifying to what
extent candidate PFIs meet the eligibility requirements. The UASP would administer the
credit under the overall supervision of the Bank of Mozambique. Participating financial
institutions would assume the credit risk and collection from borrowers. It was envisaged
that this credit line would become a revolving fund through the repayments of the PFIs.

C. Institutional Capacity Building Component (US$ 7 million IDA Allocated with
US$ 10.4 million forecasted in additional donor and government financing)

This component was designed to address two key objectives: (i) enhancing the
capabilities of private and public institutions to deliver business support services; and (ii)
supporting Government agencies in their transformation process from maintaining
control functions to providing business facilitation and promotion services. Capacity


                                              5

building assistance was to be extended to:

    1. Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism (MICTUR): supporting the
        Ministry's objectives of addressing continuing weaknesses in the business
        environment and enhance its role as a channel for dialogue with the private
        sector.
    2. Investment Promotion Center (CPI): supporting CPI's investment promotion and
        facilitation efforts and the Development of Export "Free Zones" (EPZ) in
        Mozambique
    3. Regional Business Support Initiative (RBSI): strengthening member-based
        business organizations
    4. Sector-Specific Initiative (SSI): developing networks of buyers, producers,
        traders in up to three economic sectors.

The PAD had forecasted parallel financing from other donors. Additionally, the
government was to contribute towards the costs of CPI. Private sector firms were to
supplement the grant funds through their 50 percent contributions. US$ 0.6 million of
IDA funds were allocated to project implementation and US$ 2.4 million were
unallocated.

6.6 Revised Components

The PDO and associated outcome indicators were not revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The following changes modified aspects of components and sub-components as follows:

1. Technical Learning Component: As a result of the higher logistical costs of
providing training and consultancy services for firms located outside Maputo, the
concentration of training and consultancy providers in the capital, and the importance
attached to reaching firms in the rural areas and other provinces, the project agreed with
funding 100 percent of the travel costs for the training and consultancy sub-
components. Participating firms from the provinces would still pay the 50 percent costs
of all non-travel related expenses.

2. The Finance Component was revised a number of times. First, the value of the sub-
loans under the Special Facility was increased to US$ 40,000 from US$ 15,000 to
respond to the demand from SMEs. A second modification allowed loans to be granted
in both US dollars as well as local currency to respond to the needs of exporting
borrowers. Additionally, the project broadened the eligibility of participating financial
intermediaries to open the possibility for development financial institutions to take part.



                                              6

Finally, the funds allocated to the credit line were reduced by almost 50 percent.

3. The Capacity Building Component: Following the creation of an independent
Ministry of Tourism (MITUR), the credit agreement was modified to include the
Ministry of Tourism as a partner to receive institutional capacity building support. US$
1.5 million was allocated for infrastructure construction in the Export Processing Free
Zone area of Beluluane Park. An additional US$ 1.5 million was allocated for CPI to
finance the construction of permanent headquarters.

4.Three trust funds agreements were signed with donors, for the technical learning
component and training under the capacity building component, as follows:

     Donor         Trust Fund      Trust Fund        Effective      Duration of
                   Value (US$)       Number            Date         Agreement
     DFID               6.13       UK-27799         April 2001      62 months
    NORAD               5.8          NORW-           July 2001      60 months
                                      24286
      EU                5.69      EECT-28406        May 2004        15 months


7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


The project objectives were clear and in line with the country priorities and objectives of
the CAS. The components were clearly related to the project objectives. While the
project had an advisory committee, no senior government official had direct
responsibility in any of the project activities. The project design was conducted in a
participatory fashion with wide consultation among representatives of the private sector,
government, and donor community.

The project recognized that the previous credit line for SMEs in the earlier Small and
Medium Enterprise Development Project (SMEDP) was not successful. However, in
putting forward a new credit line, the PAD concluded that the banking environment had
changed due to the privatization of state-owned banks and reforms at the central bank
and pointed to the fact that interest rates, while still high, were exhibiting a downward
trend. By designing two distinct financial products, one aimed specifically at smaller
borrowers with an innovative quasi-equity feature, the project aimed to further stimulate
the provision of financial services. The previous Industrial Enterprise Restructuring
Project (IERP) had worked closely with CPI to establish its core structure and basic
functions. A Strategic Plan for CPI had been approved by the Council of Ministers in
1997 to fully transform CPI from a regulator to a facilitator and promoter of
investments. PoDE was to build on the experiences of IERP in assisting CPI in this




                                                7

transformation and in developing free zones in the country.

The government authorities having undertaken an ambitious structural reform program
were keen to continue with economic reforms, and this was fully in line with the Bank's
CAS objectives and analytical work. The project included numerous partners which
added complexity. While a case can be made for working with a variety of partners and
donors on many issues, this complicated the project's implementation in practice. The
implementation arrangements designated the UASP as the coordinating unit for the
project, responsible for administration and follow-up on all the activities. There was
insufficient capacity in this newly formed unit to oversee and manage such a diverse set
of activities.

There was an emphasis on the risks under the finance component, from the perspective of
banks not maintaining sound banking practices and using other sources of credit to lend
to SMEs. The mitigation measures to address those risks were to ensure strict adherence
to eligibility and the favorable design of the credit line. In reality, the main challenge
under the finance component was the reluctance of the banks to lend to SMEs.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


The project was not formally restructured nor were any components dropped. The
following implementation issues had an impact on the achievement of objectives:

As most of the trainers and consultants were based in Maputo, it proved expensive for
local entrepreneurs to cover 50 percent of both travel and fee expenses. PoDE it
approved 100 percent grant coverage for travel expenses with 50 percent coverage of
other expenses for the firm competitiveness and consultancy subcomponents for work
outside Maputo. This preserved the principle of co-payment and demand-based work
while recognizing the unique constraints outside Maputo.

There was lack of an agreed interpretation of the term "majority private Mozambican
firms" that was used in project documents to define the enterprises eligible for support
under PoDE. The Mozambican authorities defined eligibility as those firms who are
majority-owned by Mozambicans while the Bank preferred a broader definition of firms
registered in Mozambique. This issue was finally resolved early in 2005, but only after
it had limited the pool of potential applicants under both the technical and finance
components.

The finance component faced a number of issues that delayed its start and ultimately led
to a reduction in the allocation of the credit line by half. Many of those issues were
outside the project's direct control. The excess liquidity in the banking system, the
availability of less risky government securities, and the legal and procedural difficulties


                                               8

in collecting on collateral all conspired to make banks hesitant to use the PoDE credit
line. For SMEs, the high interest rates (around 25 percent) acted as a disincentive to
borrow and a preference to rely on internal sources of financing. PoDE responded
through modifying the loan features, and, most significantly, allowing a development
financial institution, GAPI, to access the credit line.

Weak management by the PIU (UASP), especially of financial management, resulted in
large number of errors in withdrawal applications. These problems intensified in the
final eighteen months of the project as activities increased with the need to pay many
stakeholders under four donor accounts (the IDA credit and three Trust Funds). The
accumulation of inaccuracies and errors in the withdrawal applications (as discussed
further in section 7.4) resulted in a slowing down of transfers and delays in payments
which impacted implementation during that project period and affected the project's
transition arrangements.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The development credit agreement sets out two measurable performance indicators for
achieving the overall development objectives and outcomes and seven indicators for the
outputs that were linked to the three main components (See Annex 1). The indicators at
the output level ranged from those that were measurable and specific (such as number of
linkages and roundtable discussions) to those that were more general in nature without
quantitative measurements (increase in firm production, sales, exports, and new jobs).
The links between the indicators and the component goals were clearly demonstrated in
the case of the technical learning component. The indicator for the finance component on
repayment rate was insufficient to measure the component goal of broadening access to
finance. Institutional development indicators could have been included for the capacity
building component. The PAD delegated the responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation to the Project Advisory Committee with each partner agency responsible for
collecting data for its sub-component, which then would be consolidated and analyzed by
the UASP. The project did not specify the systems that needed to be in place for data
collection, analysis, and validation.

The technical learning component kept good statistics at the activity level for each three
sub-components (ex: number of firms assisted, type of assistance, level of grants; number
of trainees, types of training). Systematic data on the impact of the consultancy or
training on the firms were not collected. There is anecdotal evidence that will be
discussed in later sections on these results. The lack of systemic monitoring of the status
of the firms assisted after receiving the grant does hamper the ability to make definitive
judgments. This was not the case in the linkage sub-component where the value of sales
contracts generated ­ an indicator of firm expansion- was systematically tracked. Data
on loan usage and number of employees for credit line borrowers was collected.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


                                                 9

Financial Management and Disbursements: UASP, as the project's PIU, was in charge
of the overall management and reporting of the financial resources of the project. Errors
in withdrawal request began to emerge from the first year of the project and intensified in
the final eighteen months. These errors included: using donor funds for funding
components not under their approved activities, miscalculation of matching grant
amounts, multiple withdrawal requests for the same expense item, overcharging of
categories, erroneous payment information, insufficient or incorrect supporting
documentation. LOA requested that amounts deducted from previous disbursement
applications be refunded to the Special Account, resubmitted if they were indeed eligible
expenditures, or replaced by other expenditures that were eligible. The PIU was also not
reporting in withdrawal applications significant payments that had been made from the
Special Account. After months of communicating with the PIU about these issues, and
providing assistance, the Bank started in August 2005 to reduce payments to the Special
Account to account for part of the outstanding Special Account advance. This resulted in
a gradual drying up of transfers in the final eight months of the project. Furthermore, as
a result of the issues that had emerged in the withdrawal applications, the Project's
external auditor was changed in 2006 and the new auditor issued a qualified report for
2005. The previous auditor had issued unqualified annual audit reports for the first four
years of the project. The Bank also requested a special retroactive audit for 100% of
project expenses from 2000. The special audit results are pending.

Procurement: Some of the same issues that affected disbursement (weak capacity,
multiplicity of stakeholders) also impacted procurement. As project activities increased,
there were increasing instances of incomplete documentation, last minute requests, and
slow response time. The Bank provided intensive training to the relevant UASP staff on
procurement; while this helped, it did not remove all the procurement delays.

Environmental Assessment: The Bank Environmental Unit concluded that an updated
and expanded environmental impact assessment was warranted for the infrastructure
development of the Beluluane Free Zone (later established as an Industrial Park).        That
assessment was completed and its recommendations were taken into consideration for the
PoDE-funded infrastructure work that was completed on the 24 hectare area. However,
the land designated for the industrial park covers 800 hectares and the Bank
recommended a strategic environmental study for the remainder area. That study was
not completed prior to project end and the remainder area remains undeveloped.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


The technical learning component was managed by a private management contractor.
Initially, there was a number of expatriate staff which was reduced to one under a



                                               10

deliberate policy of capacity building for the Mozambican staff. The project did not
foresee the fusing of this unit into another local entity. Therefore, the program unit
disbanded at the end of PoDE. The local staff have moved to private sector positions or
positions with other international projects (one joined the local IFC facility).

The credit funds disbursed under the finance component to individual firms are being
collected by the financial institutions for repayment to the Bank of Mozambique. While
the project envisioned that the BoM could manage those funds as revolving funds, this
had not been formalized by the project closing. The support provided under the capacity
building component for the MIC and MITUR yielded significant policy reforms that are
expected to continue to be in place. Some Government officials who benefited from
PoDE sponsored training have moved to other areas in the public sector; the majority
remains at their original Ministries. The Government has pledged to cover any budget
shortfalls for CPI which had received substantial funding through PoDE. The Beluluane
Industrial Park Management remains in the hand of a private agency with overall
oversight by CPI. UASP, an entity established specifically for the PoDE project, will be
disbanded following the closure of all project accounts and resolution of all outstanding
matters.

The Government has requested a follow-up operation to PoDE. The World Bank is
currently preparing its Country Partnership Strategy for Mozambique and support to the
private sector is seen as a key plank of the strategy.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The project's objectives and main components are highly relevant both in the
Mozambican context and in light of the existing and planned World Bank assistance
strategies and priorities. Mozambique has staged a dramatic recovery from the damage
of the civil war with an average growth in the economy of 8 percent annually over the
past ten years. Despite these results, the investment climate remains restrictive to smaller
businesses with Mozambique ranking 140 on the Doing Business 2007 indicators. The
mega-projects have had a small but growing impact on local employment and there
remains great potential for further linkages. Access to finance for smaller and medium
sized firms remains limited, inhibiting firm investment and expansion. In its second
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the government of Mozambique has placed the private
sector as the main engine for additional investment, growth, and employment.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of 2004 - 2007 places improving the investment
climate as of one the three pillars of assistance. Among the items that the CAS was to
address were progress made in business registration, labor law reform, simplifying
customs procedures, and improving infrastructure. The CAS calls for the use of policy
dialogue, financing programs, and partnerships to achieve its goals under this pillar.


                                                11

Furthermore, the new Country Partnership Strategy being prepared is expected to
incorporate initiatives for private sector development.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)


This section will discuss the achievement of each of the four associated outcomes with a
concluding discussion and rating on the achievement of the overall PDO.

(i)Boosting Competitiveness of Mozambican Private Sector

As discussed in Annex 4, the technical learning component was successful in reaching a
large number of SMEs and in providing a range of services on a commercial basis to
boost their competitiveness. The following table summarizes the results of the technical
learning program:

Technical Learning Program Targets and Results

 Sub-component                                            No. of Projects    Values (in US$)
 Firm Competitiveness Office          Target             200 consultancies   2 million in
 (FCO)                                                                       grants
                                      Actual             714 consultancies   1.86 million in
                                                                             grants disbursed
 Training and Advisory Office         Target             200 training        2 million in
 (TAO)                                                   events              grants
                                      Actual             3160 training       3.69 million in
                                                         events              grants disbursed
 Linkage Program (LPO)                Target             30 linkages         5 million in sales
                                                                             generated
                                      Actual             57 linkages         65 million in
                                                                             sales generated

The firm competitiveness sub-component supported 714 consultancies for 328 firms in a
range of industries, with the biggest concentrations in tourism, engineering, and agro-
industry. Furthermore, 40 percent of the consultancies took places outside Maputo. Of
the 3163 workers who received on the-job training through this sub-component, 51
percent were from outside Maputo. In the final evaluation survey of 42 firms which had
received assistance under the FCO, 67 percent indicated that they realized moderate or
high benefits from this assistance, through improved product quality, expansion into new
product lines, enhanced worker skills and better management and financial systems. A
quarter of the firms received consultancies aimed specifically at preparing them to
become suppliers for major investors in the country.



                                                12

The training and advisory office supported 1360 training projects with US$ 3.69 million
of grants, surpassing the initial target of 200 project and grants of US$ 2 million. 43
percent of the training was in the areas of information technology, hospitability, and
financial management, areas of high priority for the domestic private sector. The overall
impact of the training and the targeting of the program was difficult to measure due to the
lack of program-wide monitoring data on the status of trainees following the courses. The
qualitative evidence collected through the ICR mission meetings with six training
providers representing 26 percent of the grants disbursed indicated that there was a range
of training topics for a variety of firms. One example is the Microsoft certification
training for smaller software consultancies located outside Maputo; 280 individuals were
trained to become Microsoft certified engineers, the first in their provinces, and some of
those went on to start their own businesses. Another is the electrical and engineering
training for 150 workers from companies providing supplies to the MOZAL aluminum
smelter; this provided needed skills that were used by those companies to expand their
work with MOZAL. A third training company delivered some 70 courses for more than
1500 trainees in the tourism industry; that training was focused on improving the
customer service and skills of tourism industry employees, an essential condition for
expanding the tourism sector.

The target for the linkage program was to broker 30 linkages for US$ 5 million worth of
contracts. This target was significantly exceeded with more US$ 65 million in sales
contracts, representing 180 linkages for 57 local suppliers. These contracts were mainly
in the value-added construction, engineering, and transport sectors. The program was
quick to take advantage of the presence of the mega-projects and to work with them and
with local suppliers to meet their purchasing needs. Initially, the work was focused on
MOZAL and the SASOL pipelines. As the construction phase of these project was
completed, the focus shifted to other major purchasers in tourism industry, the beverage
industry, the sugar industry, the distribution sector, and large government ministries.

Through its extensive provision of business, training, and linkage services for at least 400
firms, PoDE succeeded in boosting the competitiveness and expanding the sales of the
Mozambican private sector.

(ii) Establishing a Market for Business Services

There were virtually no local capable consultancies willing to serve PoDE's target group
when the project was launched. What few local business advisors were present tended to
provide assistance to multinational firms and donor clients. PoDE worked with a core
group of about 40 local consultancies which partnered with regional and sometimes
international experts to deliver the consultancies. The fact that firms had to pay 50
percent of the consultancy costs and training makes this work credible from a market




                                              13

domestic market.

The project also worked with a core group of 20 training providers which accounted for
more than 80 percent of training grants disbursed. By working with these training
providers over a period of time, PoDE supported the development of a new market for
business and technical training. The more established businesses have been made aware
of the value of training and would likely continue to finance it; smaller companies,
especially those in the rural areas which depended on the travel subsidy as well as the
matching grant, are unlikely to be able to afford the full market costs of their training
needs. This compares to the start of the project when there was essentially no training
market for the private sector; large firms provided for their own training needs, mainly
from abroad. PoDE's Linkage Program, in partnership with other support agencies,
established the Supplier Development Program to help smaller supplier meet the
standards of international companies. That program is expected to continue as are the
commercial relationships that have been brokered by PoDE.

(iii) Promoting Access to Finance

PoDE was to enhance access to term finance by SMEs primarily through the finance
component's credit line. As a result of the factors that have affected implementation
under this component, disbursements under the credit line were slow in the first three
years of the project. It was only in year four, after adjusting the design of the first
product type to increase the loan size and bringing in a non-bank financial institution,
that the credit line started disbursing at a faster rate. Ultimately, the credit line was
reduced to US$ 5.1 million and at the end of the project, 85 percent of that amount was
disbursed with 52 loans going to enterprises in a range of sectors with almost half in the
food and beverage and agro-industries. Through site visits with PoDE borrowers
representing 10 percent of loans disbursed and the main sectors of disbursement, the ICR
mission was able to ascertain that loans were invested in equipment or working capital
for business expansion. The repayment rate of 85 percent set out in the project
documents has been surpassed at 95 percent; however, more than 70 percent of loans
were disbursed in the last two years of the project and it will take time to gauge the long-
term repayment rate or the impact on businesses in terms of jobs created and incomes
enhanced. The average loan size was US$81,800 and the total number of workers
employed by the borrowers is estimated at 1800 workers. In terms of targeting, only 17%
of the credit line disbursed representing 20 borrowers went for loans US$40,000 or less,
intended for the first time very small borrowers.

The credit line was open to all eligible banks and 9 banks signed agreements for the
PoDE credit line. In the end, more than 85 percent of loan disbursements were
undertaken by two financial institutions (BCI and GAPI) with GAPI - a development
bank partially owned by the government- accounting for more than half of total loan
amounts disbursed. While the results obtained for the businesses that did borrow appear


                                               14

concrete and the revised numerical targets were substantially met, the longer-term goal of
promoting ongoing access to term finance by SMEs ­ especially first-time borrowers -
was not attained. The reasons are varied and include contextual factors (high interest
rates, weak repayment culture, excess market liquidity, availability of subsidized credit)
as well as project management factors (lack of sufficient marketing of credit line, passive
approach to selection of banking partners, insufficient link with the technical learning
component). The 2005 Country Economic Memorandum for Mozambique confirms that
access to finance for firms remains an issue, with only 29 percent of firms using bank
loans and 12 percent of manufacturing firms having overdraft facilities. Only 13 percent
of new investment is bank financed, less than the Africa average of 21 percent.

(iv) Building Capacity and Improving the Business Environment

PoDE was to improve the business environment through the capacity building
component work with key public and private agencies. The following table highlights
the main areas of support and results for this outcome:

Snapshot of Results under the Capacity Building Component

  Name of Beneficiary          Main areas of Support                    Main Results
        Agency
 Ministry of Trade       -Training for MIC staff at all levels - Capacity of MIC
 and Commerce            (45 staff in total) in both MIC       Strengthened
                         headquarters and the regions.         - New Commercial Code
 (MIC)                   -Equipment provided for MIC           Passed in June 2006
                         centers in the capital and the        - Simplification of business
                         regions.                              registration guidelines
                         - Policy input through sectoral       adopted in September 2006
                         studies (garment, woods, and
                         agriculture value chains)
                         - Advice on reform of key laws
 Ministry of Tourism     - Input to development of tourism     - New Tourism Law
 (MITUR)                 law, ministry strategy                - Adopted tourism industry
                         -Seminars for dissemination and       strategy
                         debate on legislation                 - Regulations on
                         - Organisation of tourism statistics  classification of tourism
                         -Assistance in development of         establishments
                         tourism regulations                   - National tourism statistics
                                                               are being collected
 Investment              -Investment promotion missions to     - Simplified Investment Law
 Promotion Agency        Asia and Europe                       Regulations
                         - Training staff at various levels    - First industrial park in
 (CPI)                   - Development of regulations under    Mozambique operational,
                         the Investment Law                    attracting US$ 15 million in
                         - Advice on investor tracking         investment and creating 1000
                         software                              new jobs
                         - Acquisition of IT equipment,        - Strategic Plan for CPI



                                               15

                           vehicles, and furniture                adopted
                           - Operational expenses
                           -Infrastructure support for
                           Beluluane Industrial Park
 Confederation of          - Support to the private-public        - Stronger and more timely
 Business Associations     business conferences                   advocacy by private sector
                           - Support to 14 individual member      - Greater awareness and
 (CTA)                     associations                           information on business
                           - Consultancies on advocacy and        constraints         -
                           identification of business constraints Strengthened business
                                                                  associations

Through its extensive support of key public and private agencies, PoDE played a
catalytic role in major reforms that were approved by the Mozambican authorities
(commercial code, tourism law, investment regulation, business registration). It also
advanced the agenda in key areas such as labor law and taxation. One important
achievement was the establishment of the first industrial park in Mozambique. That
park has now attracted 22 enterprises in value-added manufacturing industries,
representing US$ 15 million worth of investments and creating up to 1000 direct
jobs. With the fact that the commercial code reform and simplification of business
registration occurred towards the end of the project, it is too early to judge their long-
term impact on the business environment. An initial estimate by the Doing Business
Unit concludes that these reforms will decrease the time to establish a business from 113
to 52 days. Should these reforms be fully implemented, the business environment would
significantly improve, broadening private sector participation in the country's economic
growth.

Overall PDO : Broadening Private Sector Participation

Through establishing the foundation for a sustained marketplace for consultancy,
training, and linkages, advancing key reforms, creating the first functioning industrial
park, and directly reaching hundreds of firms and thousands of workers in a wide range
of industries both in the capital and in the regions, PoDE contributed to broadening
private sector participation in the country's economic growth. This is not withstanding
continued challenges in access to finance, in investment climate bottlenecks, and in
further extending the outreach to rural areas. The overall rating for the achievement of
the PDO is Moderately Satisfactory.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The project's actual total cost amounted to US$ 39.75 million compared to US $47.6
million appraisal estimate - or 83.5 percent of estimated cost. Due to exchange rate
changes, the IDA credit of SDR 19.2 million (equivalent to US $ 26 million at the time
of the appraisal) is now equal to US$ 28.7 million. IDA disbursed US $ 25.01 million


                                               16

which is 96 percent of the original US dollar value. Due to the increased activity and the
international management contractor costs, the technical learning component cost was at
135 percent of appraisal estimate. The finance component cost was 43 percent of
appraisal as a result of the reduced allocation. The capacity building costs was 74
percent of appraisal estimate as a result of less than expected donor funds and counterpart
funding for this component. Using the appraisal methodology, the NPV for the technical
learning is US$ 17.9 million while the ERR is 43 percent This ex-poste estimate
compares with the PAD NPV of US$ 17.6 million and ERR of 38 percent. The reason
for the increase in estimated returns is due to the higher than forecasted matching grants
disbursed and the linkage component results which generated thirteen times more sales
contracts than targeted (US$ 65 million vs. US$ 5 million). For reasons discussed in
Annex 5, no NPV or ERR was calculated for the finance or capacity building
components.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


The overall outcome rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

PoDE with its three individual components remains relevant in the Mozambican
context. With reference to Annex 1 (Results Framework Analysis), the project achieved
almost all the quantitative targets set out in the original target values, except in the case
of the financial component where the original targets were adjusted to reflect the lower
disbursements. With respect to the overall project development objectives, PoDE
assisted in advising hundreds of SMEs and upgrading the skills of thousands of workers
working through local business and training providers whose capacity was built and
through the promotion of linkages with large investors. PoDE also advanced key
business environment reforms (commercial code, business registration, investment and
tourism laws, and draft labor reform). Many of these reforms came in late in the project
life to fully evaluate their impact. PoDE succeeded in strengthening the capacity of key
Government Ministries and the main business association and established the first
industrial park in the country. The goal of promoting access to finance was hindered due
to a variety of contextual factors as well as project design and implementation
constraints. The operation was efficient with an ERR of 43 percent for technical
learning component, estimated using the appraisal methodology.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


Three thousand and seven hundred women trainees benefited under the TAO program
while 125 women received on the job training through the FCO program, representing 14
percent and 10 percent of all trainees respectively. 10 out of the 52 borrowers from
credit line are women owned and operated businesses, representing 20 percent of total
borrowers. Finally, a number of departments at MIC were headed by women managers


                                              17

who had benefited from capacity building training intervention.

Some of the donor trust funds under PoDE were used to highlight the issues of
HIV/AIDS in the workplace through a program of information, education, and
communication, training workshops and seminars, and the development of firm-level
policies to deal with this issue. Forty firms were selected for these activities. It is
estimated that 2300 workers participated in HIV/AIDS awareness raising and orientation
sessions.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

As discussed in Annex 4, PoDE strengthened the capacity of key public and private
agencies (MIC, MITUR, CPI, CTA) at the national and local levels. While some
turnover of staff at these agencies is natural, the capacity that PoDE built is expected to
endure beyond the project closing. Additionally, through the work under the technical
learning component, PoDE built the capacity of a core group of local consultancies and
training institutions as well as staff who are now better equipped to serve the needs of the
private sector, especially SMEs.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)




8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)




9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate


The local consultancies and training providers whose capacity was strengthened through
PoDE's support would likely continue to serve the SME sector; however, the end of the
project increases the likelihood that these providers may decrease the provision of
services to smaller firms and firms outside Maputo. Future support would be necessary if
the goal of broadening access to business services by firms is to be sustained. Major
purchasers in Mozambique will likely continue to contract with local suppliers which
were assisted through the linkage component. The Supplier Development Program,
sponsored by the major companies and established by PoDE, is expected to continue.

Given that revolving fund agreements were not established with BoM, it is unlikely that
the PoDE credit line will be transformed into an ongoing facility for SMEs.
Furthermore, with a continued environment of high interest rates and the presence of safe



                                                18

government backed investments, it is unlikely that the main financial institutions will
increase lending to SMEs in the foreseeable future. Promoting access to finance
requires significant regulatory and institutional reforms in both the financial and judicial
sectors.

The policy reforms that PoDE helped realize will probably remain in place. The
government is likely to remain committed to the process of improving the investment
climate and carry out additional reforms in sensitive areas such as labor law and
taxation. The uncertainty revolves around the efficient, timely, and complete
implementation of simplified and updated regulations. The capacity built by PoDE will
aid in this process, but further support will likely be needed to ensure that the private
sector is able to fully capitalize on these reforms.

In terms of sustainability, CPI's revenue collection from fees is minimal and it remains
dependent on government funding. The industrial park that was created still has
potential for further development as long as it continues to be managed by experienced
professionals.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

PoDE's design was well aligned with the country's priorities and bank assistance strategy
and it was an outcome of a participatory consultation process with government and the
private sector. The project succeeded in gaining support from donor partners. The credit
line implementation arrangements were complicated. The capacity building component
included too many partners and there was some ambiguity in the sector specific
initiative. Not enough emphasis was placed on establishing and maintaining a robust
monitoring and evaluation system for the project.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Focus on Development Impact

The Bank was quick to modify the matching grant program to allow full travel subsidy
outside Maputo; this allowed for much greater outreach than would have been the case
and contributed to expanding the project's impact. The Bank drove the process of
building the capacity and transferring additional responsibility to the local staff working
in the Technical Learning Program, thus ensuring that the gained expertise would remain
in country. The Bank approved GAPI to access the credit line, which resulted in much



                                                19

greater disbursements of loans. At the request of the authorities, the Bank reallocated
resources to provide funding for the needed infrastructure at the Belulune Industrial Park,
helping to complete the country's first industrial park. There were two TTLs throughout
the project life and both were based in Maputo. This allowed for greater in-country
knowledge, and constant liaison with authorities, which was crucial in advancing the
policy reform agenda.

Supervision of Fiduciary and Safeguard Aspects

On the other hand, when LOA identified and flagged from 2004 the increasing errors in
withdrawal requests, the Bank could have explored the causes of these errors and
taken remedial action sooner before the problems accumulated. It is true that the
unqualified audits given for the first four years of the Project by an internationally
accredited audit firm did provide some assurance of sound financial practice. At the
request of the Bank, the external auditor was changed in 2006 and a new auditor
appointed who provided a qualified opinion for the 2005, confirming the financial
deficiencies in the PIU. However, the Financial Management Unit could have been more
proactive in following up on the issues identified by LOA early on and pursued the
matter more aggressively through, for example, conducting on-site inspections, providing
written assessment of the PIU's financial management weaknesses, and escalating to
management.

Candor and Quality of Performance Reporting

Semi-annual formal supervision missions took place for the project throughout its six
years. Aide Mèmoires laid out the progress achieved and issues faced and how they
related to the attainment of the PoDE's objectives. The ISR sub-ratings for project
management and financial management had been downgraded to unsatisfactory in the
final ISR; however, the overall Implementation Progress rating was maintained at
satisfactory. A downgrading of the IP rating as withdrawal request errors accumulated
eighteen months before project closing could have alerted management of the severity of
the financial management difficulties faced.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the project was designed to meet the objectives to be achieved, though the
implementation arrangements could have been streamlined and there was not enough
emphasis was on M&E systems. Adequate and proactive supervision assisted in problem
resolution and contributed to PoDE's attainment of objectives; earlier action on the
financial management weaknesses in the PIU could have averted the payment and
transfer delays in the final phase of the project.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance



                                              20

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Borrower was engaged in the design of the project. The PSD unit in the Ministry of
Industry and Commerce was committed to the policy of reform throughout the project
and took a lead role in advocating for a more enabling environment for the private sector.
The Mozambican authorities undertook major reforms that should promote greater
private sector participation in the country's economic growth.

The position by Mozambican authorities to restrict firm eligibility until the final year of
the project to majority-Mozambican owned enterprises limited the potential pool of
beneficiaries under the technical learning and financial components, and hence affected
the project's overall impact.

Government counterpart funding for CPI was inadequate and erratic. The Government
could also have been more proactive in addressing and resolving the financial and
administrative weaknesses in the PIU.




(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Implementing
Agency            Performance

                  In the early stages of the project, UASP's performance was adequate.
                  Reports were provided on a timely basis and Advisory Committee
                  meetings were held periodically to review and address outstanding
                  issues. As the project progressed and its activities increased, UASP's
                  inherent capacity weaknesses began to impact the project's
                  performance. UASP did not produce the Financial Monitoring Report
                  required by the Bank. UASP's failure to increase the capacity of its
                  financial management team (it had only one qualified accountant) was a
Unidade de        contributing factor to the increasing errors in withdrawal applications
Apoio ao Sector that ultimately led to the significant delays in payments in the final eight
Privado           months of the project. These errors continued despite the constant
                  feedback and advice provided by the Bank. Also in the latter stages of
                  the project, UASP did not respond in a timely fashion to requests for
                  procurement approvals from the various project partners. The overall
                  costs of the PIU staff (around 2% of total project cost) were not
                  disproportionate compared to other projects; however, the senior PIU
                  staff were well-paid and should have exercised much greater quality
                  control over the unit's administrative, procurement, and financial
                  functions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance



                                              21

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The fact that the government passed through major reforms was significant in achieving
the project's objectives. However, the weak performance of the UASP, especially in the
financial management area, coupled with delays in ensuring adequate counterpart funding
and resolving issues, had a negative impact in ensuring the sustainability of the results
achieved.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

General Lessons:

    · Putting in place adequate monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system should be an
        integral part of the project's design; such an M&E system should be linked to the
        performance indicators identified. The Bank should provide support to
        implementing agencies in establishing and maintaining such a system in case of
        insufficient M&E capacity. The M&E system should provide benchmarks for
        both quantitative and qualitative outcomes (such as capacity building).
    · In projects with a diverse set of local partners and donors, the project team should
        ensure that the selected implementing agency has adequate competency and
        commitment to handle all administrative, financial, and reporting functions.
        Otherwise, consideration should be given to working with existing government
        counterpart agencies instead of creating stand alone PIUs. Good donor
        coordination is essential for enhanced effectiveness in such projects. This can be
        improved through more effective communication and consultation.
    · The Bank's financial supervision of projects can be strengthened by escalating
        early on accounting or financial errors that appear to be of a systemic nature and
        ensuring that Financial Management addresses any identified weaknesses. In
        countries with a weak or underdeveloped auditing and accounting industry, the
        external auditor opinion may not provide sufficient assurance. In such instances,
        the Bank should consider conducting its own spot checks and on-site inspection
        of financial transactions.
    · Transition and post-completion arrangements should be planned well in advance
        of project closing. Adequate resources and supervision should be provided to
        transition arrangements.

Project/Sector Specific Lessons:

    · Achieving major economic (and other) reforms requires timely and practical
        analysis, close and continuous liaison with government, persistence, and time.
        Projects which aim to change policies should consider that time horizon at the
        design stage.
    · A successful matching grant program for business services requires a
        combination of international expertise, local knowledge, autonomy in



                                               22

        administration, and adaptability to respond to market demand. Market
        development indicators such as number of repeat users of services, customer
        satisfaction with service provision, market penetration of overall SME
        population, and percentage of provider revenue from SME clients should be
        included in the project's M&E system.
    · Government agencies' role in overseeing credit lines for SMEs should be limited
        to ensuring adherence to development mandate and overall portfolio quality.
        Government agencies should not be involved in administering or managing credit
        lines or other private sector-oriented financial instruments. Credit lines and other
        financial instruments should be managed and overseen by financial
        institutions which are well versed in SME lending approaches and methodologies.
        For improved chances of success of such instruments, projects should build the
        capacity of both the enterprises as well as the financial intermediary institutions.


12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The PIU provided written input into the ICR, a summary of which is attached in Annex
10. The PIU also provided written comments on the ICR which is attached in Annex 10.
Both the input provided and comments on the ICR by the PIU are in agreement that
PoDE project succeeded in achieving its objectives, despite the factors that affected the
credit line. The PIU disagreed with the ICR rating of unsatisfactory for its performance.
The PIU also suggested that the rating for capacity building should be upgraded from
moderately satisfactory to reflect the impact on policy reform and the amount of capacity
building that were provided through PoDE. While the ICR acknowedges that the PIU did
undertake a wide range of tasks, some of which were handled in a reasonable manner, the
weak capacity in financial management and procurement had a detrimental impact on the
project as a whole. The ICR agrees that there were significant achievements in the
capacity building component but factors related to the uncertain sustainability of the
Investment Promotion Agency and the recent nature of most reforms resulted in the
moderately satisfactory rating.


(b) Cofinanciers

The ICR mission debriefed with NORAD and the EU, two of the three co-donors. The
draft ICR was also shared with the donors and comments were received from NORAD
and the EU. Summaries of the feedback provided by NORAD and EU representatives
during the ICR mission and on the draft ICR are in Annex 11. Both donors agreed with
the ICR conclusions and made suggestions for future operations. There was a joint
recommendation that the Bank adopt a more participatory and consultative approach in
future operations which are jointly co-funded with other donors. The Bank
acknowledges that there is room for improvement in the area of donor coordination.




                                             23

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                          24

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project's objective was to help broaden the base of private participation in
Mozambican economic growth. This would be achieved by: (i) boosting the
competitiveness of Mozambican private firms by strengthening their access to, and use of
support services; (ii) providing a more efficient market for training and capacity building
services and establishing forward and backward linkages to existing and new local and
foreign buyers and investors; (iii) enhancing access to term finance by both first-time and
other borrowers; and (iv) helping to strengthen the capabilities of the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce, Trade and Tourism, the Investment Promotion Center, and business
organizations with potential to improve the business environment.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO and associated outcome indicators were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                  Original Target          Formally             Actual Value

  Indicator Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised Target           Achieved at

                               approval documents)           Values        Completion or Target
                                                                                    Years
Indicator 1 : Increase the sales of Mozambican firms through linkages.
                                                       Targets were        The total amount of
                                                       annually revised    linkage contracts

Value                                                  through the         obtained by local SMEs

(quantitative                 US$ 5 million of         Steering            reached US$65 million

or           Not available    contracts through at     Committee to        as of May 2006,

Qualitative)                  least 30 linkages        reflect an increase representing
                                                       in the targeted     approximately 180
                                                       value of contracts linkages for 57 local
                                                       to be generated.    firms.
Date
achieved     01/28/2001       01/28/2001               05/30/2005          05/30/2006

Comments     Value of contract generated surpassed original target of US$ 5 million and 30
(incl. %     linkages that was set by the PSC to reach US $ 65 million of contract value for 57
achievement) local suppliers.

Indicator 2 : Increase in expenditure for technical training within Mozambican firms as
              indicated by willingness to pay for training.
                              Improve access to, and
Value                         use of external                              Total training courses
(quantitative                 services, to the firms                       delivered 1,369 and
or           Not Available    by providing 200                             reached over 31,000
Qualitative)                  training activities for                      trainees.
                              6,000 staff with a grant



                                                25

                               value of US$ 2 million.
Date
achieved      01/20/2001       01/20/2001                                 06/30/2006

Comments      The original targets were exceeded with 1369 training events delivered to more
(incl. %      than 31,000 trainees.The value of expenditure for technical training by SMEs stood
achievement) at US $ 3.69 million, with firms paying 50 percent of training costs.

Indicator 3 : Increase in expenditure for consulting services within Mozambican firms as
              indicated by willingness to pay for consultancies
                               Improve access to, and
                               use of external services                   The total number of on
Value                          to the firms by                            the job consultancies
(quantitative                  providing 200 on-the-                      has reached 714
or            Not Available job consultancies for                         consultancies with a
Qualitative)                   improved
                               competitiveness with a                     grant value of US $

                               grant value of US$ 2                       1.86 million disbursed.

                               million.
Date
achieved      01/20/2001       01/20/2001                                 06/30/2006

Comments      The original targets of number of consultanies were exceeded by more than 300%
(incl. %      and the value of grant expenditure stood at US $ 1.86 million which is 92% of the
achievement) target (the cost / consultancy was less than budgeted)

Indicator 4 : Collection rate of at least 85% reflecting changed repayment culture and
              subsequent increase in profitability in participating banks.
                                                       A total of US$5
                                                       million has been
Value                          US$ 10 million credit made available for This component has
(quantitative                  line disbursed to local lending to firms   disbursed 52 loans for a
or            Not Available    firms by participating through             total disbursement of
Qualitative)                   financial institutions. participating      $4.3 million
                                                       financial
                                                       institutions
Date
achieved      01/20/2001       01/20/2001              06/30/2005         06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %      43% of the original target value was achieved. As for the PDO Indicator, the

achievement)  repayment rate of participating banks stood at 95%.

Indicator 5 : Help the Confederation of Business Association in developing an effective
              dialogue with the Government of business climate matters.
                                                                          4 Private sector

              Weak                                                        conferences had taken

Value         consultations    3 roundtable                               place. While they were

(quantitative between the      discussions held                           useful in establishing

or            private sector   between Government                         the methodology it is

Qualitative) and the           and private sector.                        important that they are

              government                                                  geared towards
                                                                          generating results to
                                                                          improve the investment



                                                 26

                                                                    climate.
Date
achieved      01/20/2001      01/30/2001                            06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 : One Export Free Zone Established in Maputo and consensus on future strategy
              with respect to EFZ and FZ
                                                                    24 hectares of the
                                                                    Beluluane Zone area

Value                         One EPZ completed                     have been completed as

(quantitative No Established with adequate                          an Industrial Park

or            FZs             environmental                         which is fully

Qualitative)                  safeguards                            operational.
                                                                    Environmental Impact
                                                                    Assessment has been
                                                                    completed.
Date
achieved      01/20/2000      01/20/2001                            06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Adequate environmental safeguards in EPZs
                                                                    The Beluluane Zone
                                                                    was established as an

Value                                                               Industrial Park.

(quantitative No Established  Adequate                              Adequate

or            EPZ             Environmental                         environmental

Qualitative)                  Safeguards in EPZ                     safeguards have been
                                                                    put in place following
                                                                    an environmental
                                                                    impact assessment.
Date
achieved      01/20/2001      01/20/2001                            06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 : n/a
Value
(quantitative
or            n/a             n/a                                   n/a

Qualitative)
Date
achieved      01/20/2001      01/20/2001                            06/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                             27

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                          Original Target      Formally    Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised
                                              approval          Target        at Completion or

                                            documents)          Values          Target Years

Indicator 1 : At least 20% of participating firms were established in 1995 or later and at least
              30% of participating firms operate outside Maputo

              No assistance is         At least 20% of
                                       participating firms                45% of the Project total

Value         provided to the          were established in                technical assistance to

(quantitative Provinces outside of     1995 or later and at               firms has been provided

or            Maputo. Vast majority    least 30% of                       to firms outside of the

Qualitative)  of firms were founded                                       Maputo Province. 65%
              after the privatization  participating firms                of industry is located in
              period of 1995.          operate outside
                                       Maputo                             Maputo Province.

Date
achieved      01/20/2001               01/20/2001                         06/30/2006

Comments      The number of participating firms date of establishment was not tracked as the
(incl. %      public sector controlled private industry until the end of the central planning era in
achievement) 1994.

Indicator 2 : Annual GDP growth rate in excess of 5 percent per annum over the life of the
              project (CAS Objective)
Value
(quantitative Growth rate at 2000      5 % annual GDP                     8 % annual GDP growth

or            was around 9%.           growth.                            rate over the life of the

Qualitative)                                                              project.

Date
achieved      01/20/2001               01/20/2001                         06/30/2006

Comments      This was the CAS Objective to which PODE was to contribute. The GDP growth
(incl. %      over the life of the project exceeded the CAS objective and was around 8% from
achievement) 2001 through 2006.




                                                 28

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     29

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


         Components          Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of
                                   (USD M)               (USD M)           Appraisal
TECHNICAL LEARNING IN
FIRMS                                       13.90                18.74           134.82

FINANCE                                     12.70                 5.45            42.91
CAPACITY BUILDING                           17.40                12.83            73.74
PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION                               1.20                 2.73           227.50

          Total Baseline Cost               45.20                39.75
Physical Contingencies                       0.00
Price Contingencies                          2.40
          Total Project Costs               47.60
Front-end fee PPf                            0.00                 0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                           0.00                 0.00             0.00
   Total Financing Required                 47.60                39.75



(b) Financing


                                                 Appraisal   Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds           Type of                                  Percentage of
                                Cofinancing      Estimate   Estimate (USD
                                                 (USD M)         M)          Appraisal

  Borrower                         Counterpart
                                       Funding         0.00           0.00

  UK: British Department for
International Development               Parallel       0.00           2.60
(DFID)                               Financing

  EC: European Commission               Parallel
                                     Financing         0.00           1.19

  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT                                           26.00          25.01        96.19
ASSOCIATION
  NORWAY: NORWEGIAN
AGENCY FOR DEV. COOP.                   Parallel       0.00           4.90
(NORAD)                              Financing

  LOCAL SOURCES OF                Private Sector
BORROWING COUNTRY                 Contribution         0.00           6.05


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                           30

31

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Component A : Technical Learning in Firms (TLC) (US$ 13.9 million PAD, US$
18.74 million actual)

The component was to contribute to the broadening of private participation in
Mozambican growth by boosting the competitiveness of private firms through their use
of support services and through providing a more efficient market for training and
capacity building services (including linkages services) for the private sector. This
component consisted of three sub-components; 1- Firms Competitiveness Office; 2- the
Training and Advisory Office; 3- The Linkage Program Office. The results for each of
these three sub-components are as follows:

1- Firm Competitiveness Office (FCO)

From an original target of providing 200 consultancies with a grant budget of US$ 2
million, the FCO was able to provide 714 consultancies with more US$ 1.86 million
in actual grants disbursed. The grant value is less than budgeted as the cost / grant was
much less than that estimated in the PAD. The 714 consultancies were provided to 328
firms in a wide range of industries, with about 53 percent in tourism, engineering, and
agro-industry. (See table 1 at the end of this section for details). The types of
consultancies provided to firms were diverse, but some 50 percent was for sales and
marketing followed by 20 percent for production techniques and information
technologies A quarter of the grants went to engineering and construction firms, which
were trying to upgrade their capabilities to supply services to the mega-projects and
benefit from the linkage program. 40 percent of consultancies took place in the regions
outside Maputo province. Of the 3163 workers who received on the-job training through
the FCO, 51 percent were from outside Maputo, exceeding the 30 percent target set out.



A number of observations can be deduced from these figures. One is that, in an
environment of post-conflict, rapid privatization, nascent indigenous private sector,
minimal number of local consultancies dedicated to smaller firms, concentration of
industry in the capital city, and constraints on access to finance, it is remarkable that
PoDE was able to arrange for such a large number of consultancies, which have been
made credible by the fact that all firms are required to contribute 50 percent of the
costs. As indicated earlier, the ability to reach this level of activity was due to the
combination of international expertise, local knowledge, adaptability, and gained
experience. One key to the ability to reach this level of activity was the decision to
bring in regional consultants who partnered with local consultants to develop their
capacity to work with local firms. Another incentive for firms to use consultancy
services was the potential to make them eligible to receive support under the linkage
component. A final ingredient for success was the practical and demand-driven approach


                                              32

of requiring firms to develop a competitiveness plan on how the service will improve
their business.

As indicated earlier, the project did not maintain monitoring and evaluation data at the
enterprise level. However, there is some evidence that the FCO consultancies improved
the productivity of the firms it assisted. Many Mozambican firms had inherited the
equipment of privatized state-owned enterprises which was obsolete and had an unskilled
workforce. The consultancy allowed many of these firms to upgrade their equipment,
open new lines of production, hire more workers, and enhance the skill of the existing
workforce. According to the component management contractor, roughly 60 of the
firms supported upgraded their equipment following FCO assistance. A common practice
for support under the FCO was to have technical consultants in the plant for an extended
period of time to improve entire production process. Furthermore, in the survey
conducted by the final evaluation team of 42 firms which had received assistance under
FCO, 67 percent indicated that they realized moderate or high benefits from this
assistance through improved product quality, more efficient production processes, and
better management and financial systems.

The FCO helped stimulate the demand for business services in Mozambique; 86 percent
of firms surveyed in the final evaluation stated that they would not have carried out the
productivity improvements; would have delayed them or would have done them in a less
comprehensive fashion in the absence of the assistance. As for the supply of services,
there were virtually no local capable consultancies willing to serve PoDE's target group
when the project was launched. What few local business advisors were present tended to
provide assistance to multinational firms and donor clients. FCO worked with a core
group of about 40 local consultancies which partnered with regional and sometimes
international experts to deliver the needed services. While some drop-off in services to
SMEs will occur due to PoDE's closing, these business service providers are now aware
and equipped to serve the local domestic market. The biggest drop in provision of
services is expected to be in the areas outside Maputo where the project continued to rely
on Maputo-based firms to deliver the required services.

2- Training and Advisory Office (TAO)

The training and advisory office was to contribute to the overall project objectives by
facilitating business and technical training. The initial target of 200 training projects and
a grant budget of US$2 million were surpassed; in the end the program carried out 1369
training projects and US$3.69 million of actual grants disbursed. 44 percent of assistance
was in the areas of information technology; tourism and financial management (The
distribution of topics of the training program is presented in table 2 at the end of this
section). About 44 percent of the training courses were conducted outside Maputo and 50
percent of the trainees were trained outside Maputo province. The total number of
trainees was 31,262. PoDE supported 92 training provider to deliver this training with a


                                             33

core group of 20 training centers accounting for more than 80 percent of the training
grants.

The breath of geographic coverage and the ability to deliver a wide range of courses on a
demand driven basis is an important output for PoDE. By working with a core group of
20 training providers PoDE supported the development of a new market for business and
technical training. The more established businesses have been made aware of the value of
training and would likely continue to finance it; smaller companies, especially those in
the rural areas which depended on the travel subsidy as well as the matching grant, are
unlikely to be able to afford the full market costs of their training needs. This compares
to the start of the project when there was essentially no training market for the private
sector; large firms provided for their own training needs, mainly from abroad, and
smaller firms did not believe in the value of training due perceived risk of employee
turnover.

The qualitative evidence collected through the ICR mission discussions with six training
providers representing 20 percent of the training grants indicated that beneficiary firms
are applying the training, improving their productivity, and expanding into new lines of
business. One such example is the Microsoft certification training for smaller software
consultancies located outside Maputo; 280 individuals were trained to become Microsoft
certified engineers, the first in their provinces, and some of those went on to start their
own businesses. Another is the electrical and engineering training for 150 workers from
companies providing supplies to the MOZAL aluminum smelter; this provided needed
skills that were used by those companies to expand their work with MOZAL. A third
training company delivered some 70 courses for more than 1500 trainees in the tourism
industry; that training was focused on improving the customer service and marketing
skills of tourism industry workers, an essential condition for expanding the tourism
sector.

However, there is some indication that not all training delivered was of good quality.
Furthermore, the course topics may have been too disbursed with too many topics and
sectors covered. This may be understandable at the outset of the project where there was
a real need to jump start the idea of training for business. A future program can now
build on this through more focused and targeted training.

3- Linkage Program Component (LPO)

The linkage program objective was to promote local suppliers contracts with large
purchasers. The target was to broker 30 linkages for US$ 5 million worth of contracts.
This target was far exceeded as more than US$ 65 million in contracts for 57 local
suppliers were generated with the assistance of the LPO. These contracts were mainly in
the priority sectors of construction, engineering, and transport. The program was quick to
take advantage of the presence of the mega-projects and to work with them and with



                                               34

local suppliers to meet their purchasing needs. Initially, the work was focused on
MOZAL and the SASOL pipelines. As the construction work of these project wound
down, the focus was shifted to engineering and maintenance work. The program was
able to keep securing new contracts following the phase of work with the mega-project
by pursuing new purchasing opportunities in the tourism industry, the beverage industry,
the sugar industry, the distribution sector, and with large government ministries
(Ministries of Education and Health).

The Linkage office succeeded in meeting the expectation set out in through:

- Increasing awareness of the value of linkage
- Directly brokering contracts for smaller firms
- Establishing credibility with the large investors in the country
- Establishing a foundation for creating future linkages through the supplier

Overall Component Management

The component management did an excellent job in promoting the program, exceeding
the planned activities, creating synergies across sub-components, and laying the
foundation for ongoing consultancies, training, and linkages for the domestic private
sector. However, there was a lack of program-wide monitoring of the impact of these
interventions, limiting the ability to ensure that these activities were making a positive
contribution at the enterprise level in the firm competitiveness and training sub-
components.

Rating

This component is rated satisfactory. It has exceeded the targets set out in the project
documents and there was real integration and synergy between its various sub-
components as well as adaptability and flexibility in its administration. However, the
lack of systemic monitoring and evaluation data hampered the ability to better target
activities and adjust to changing market conditions. Future operations should consider
how to build on the success of the TLC to further deepen its outreach, focus its activities,
and provide for ongoing monitoring of impact.

Component B: The Finance Component (US$ 12.7 million PAD, US$ 5.45 million
actual)

The immediate goal of the finance component was to provide US$ 10 million in
financing for small and medium sized firms. The medium term goal was to promote
ongoing term lending for SMEs, by converting the credit line into a revolving fund and
by financial institutions using their own funds to lend to this market segment. As a
result of the factors that have affected implementation under this component (discussed



                                               35

under 7.2), disbursements under the credit line were slow in the first three years of the
project operation. It was only in year four, after adjusting the design of the first product
type to increase the loan size and bringing in GAPI, that the credit line started disbursing
at a steadier rate. Ultimately, the credit line was reduced to US$ 5.1 million and at the
end of the project, US$ 4.3 million that amount was disbursed with 52 loans going to
enterprises in a range of sectors. As can be seen in the following chart, the majority of
loans went to food and beverages sector (28 percent), following by agro-industry (18
percent) and services sector (11 percent).




Even though 9 banks signed agreements with the BOM for the PoDE credit line, more
than 85 percent of loan disbursements were undertaken by two banks (BCI and GAPI)
with GAPI - a development bank partially owned by the government- accounting for
more than 50 percent of total loan amounts disbursed. The repayment rate of 85 percent
set out in the project documents has been met with a repayment rate of 95 percent;
however, many loans were disbursed in the last year or two and it will take time to gauge
the long-term repayment rate.

The ICR mission visited six borrowers representing 10 percent of credit line
disbursements and the main sectors supported. In four out of the six cases, new jobs
were created as a direct result of expansion made possible by the PoDE credit line:

- A female entrepreneur who operated a catering service from home was able to obtain a
formal business location, expanding her business and taking on five new women
employees
- A woman operated bakery business was able to expand her workforce from 18 to 24


                                              36

following a PoDE loan which permitted her to buy new machinery
- A businessman who used to trade in sweets was able to open a new sweet and candy
factory employing 22 workers on a double shift
- A chicken farmer added 5 more workers as a result of a PoDE working capital loan

In the remaining two cases (Steel Furniture Manufacturer and Citrus Farmer) the loan
enabled the enterprises to modernize their equipment, expand their production, and
upgrade the skill of the labor force. A total 1800 workers were employed by the 52
firms who borrowed from the PoDE credit line, 27% of which were women employees.

Rating

This component is rated moderately unsatisfactory. While the results obtained for the
businesses that did borrow appear concrete and the revised numerical targets were largely
met, the overall original component objective of promoting access to term finance by
SMEs was not achieved. The reasons are varied and include contextual factors (high
interest rates, weak repayment culture, excess market liquidity, availability of subsidized
credit) as well as project management factors (lack of sufficient marketing of credit line,
passive approach to selection of banking partners, insufficient link with the technical
learning component). It is important to note that promoting access to finance remains
imperative for sustained private sector development in Mozambique. Future projects
should consider how this could best be achieved based on the country context and the
lessons from past operations.

Component C: Institutional Capacity Building (US$ 17.4 million PAD, US$ 12.83
million actual)

This component was designed to promote a more enabling business environment for the
private sector on two levels: 1- improving the provision of public and private services
and 2- facilitating the business reform process. In order to achieve that, PoDE worked
with a variety of public and private partners in order to build their capacity and improve
the business environment. The beneficiaries under the Institutional Component were:
Ministry of Industry and Commerce, Ministry of Tourism, the Investment Promotion
Agency, and Confederation of Economic Associations. The results achieved with each
of these agencies will be assessed individually followed by overall observation on the
component.

1- Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MIC)

Through PoDE's support, the capacity of MIC was enhanced and it emerged more
cognizant of the challenges and needs of the private sector. Through PoDE's funded
studies, business conferences, and advocacy, MIC's Private Sector Unit pushed through
significant reforms to the business environment. Chief amongst those was the



                                            37

commercial code which had been outdated from the colonial era and which simplified
business establishment, expansion, and foreign investment. Also, the registry code was
approved and steps are now being taken to harmonize business registration on an
electronic basis across the country. PoDE also supported MIC's efforts to reform the
labor law and simplify the taxation system. Despite progress in drafting the labor law,
that legislation has yet to pass while the work on the taxation system was not concluded.
On the capacity building front, PoDE funded (i) long and short-term training for core
MIC staff at all levels (15 staff was supported to pursue university level degrees in
business and more than 30 staff was supported through shot-term courses on a range of
business topics from trade to promotion to language and computer. Training was
extended to staff at both MIC headquarters and the regions); (ii) missions for trade fairs
and participation in regional business conferences; (iii) Equipment for MIC centers in the
capital and the regions. In addition, PoDE financed sectoral studies in the garment,
woods, and agriculture sectors.

2- Ministry of Tourism (MITUR)

After the Ministry of Tourism was separated from MICTUR, PoDE provided support for
studies on regulation of hotel and travel agencies, on the tourism law, and on marketing
and strategic planning. PoDE also provided equipment for field local inspectors to the
MITUR and training on maintaining tourism-related statistics. With PoDE's
contribution, the regulation of the hospitality industry was strengthened and industry
standards were put in place. Tourism has been on the increase in Mozambique;
obviously, other factors contributed to this increase. However, PoDE's targeted support
of MITUR contributed to raising the prominence and recognition of this sector.

3- Investment Promotion Agency (CPI)

PoDE provided significant support to CPI including: Investment promotion missions to
Asia and Europe; training to staff at various levels; specialist services to development of
regulations under the Investment Law; advice on investor tracking software; acquisition
of IT equipment, vehicles, and furniture and operating expenses. Additionally, with the
support of MIGA, PoDE provided assistance in the development of a strategic plan for
CPI.

Project support, in combination with the MIGA assistance, led to a revision of the
investment law and the strengthening of the CPI (the structure and costs were
rationalized, staff skills upgraded and its strategic plan adopted, promotional materials
were developed). Reflecting the CPI's increased importance, the government provided
increasing resources to CPI in the latter stages of the project. In spite of progress, it has
not been possible to determine the impact of CPI's promotion efforts since the agency
only tracked investment application approvals without verifying if the approved
investment actually took place, and if so, what was the status in terms of jobs, incomes,



                                              38

and tax revenues generated. Despite efforts by PoDE, CPI did not complete the
acquisition of the needed investor software to track results and achievements.

According to CPI, some US$ 810 million worth of investments were approved from the
period of 2001 through 2006, with potential number of jobs created of 84,297. In terms
of sustainability, it is not clear what the level of support would be forthcoming for CPI
from the government or enterprise sector; its revenue collection from fees is minimal.
CPI's capabilities have not yet matured enough to enable it to carry out its mandate
according to international standards.

Through PoDE's support, CPI succeeded in developing 24 hectares of the Beluluane
Industrial Park. PoDE provided support to the environmental assessment of the site as
well as for the infrastructure works. At the end of the project, there were 22 approved
enterprises in the industrial zone, mainly in the engineering, maintenance and metal
sector. The industrial park is located across from MOZAL and about 10 projects supply
services and equipment to MOZAL. Six out of the 22 enterprise which will be installed
in the park are not yet established and one is under construction. These enterprises
represent almost US$ 15 million worth of investment and a slightly under 1000 direct
jobs. Not all the developed areas are committed so the potential is there for greater
business investment. The fact that not all businesses are exporting their products should
not detract from the industrial park potential to attract investment.

4- Regional Business Support Initiative

This sub-component partnered primarily with the Confederation of Economic Associates,
the main business association in Mozambique. Work with the CTA included: support to
the private-public business conferences (four such conferences were held during PoDE,
attended by senior government officials); support to build the capacity of 14 individual
member associations; consultancies on advocacy and identification of business
constraints

CTA was already receiving substantial capacity building funding from USAID. PoDE's
role was mainly to identify and elevate issues of concern to the private sector with policy
makers. It succeeded in this matter as well as in building in-house expertise at CTA.
However, there is some concern that CTA remained a centralized organization which did
not fully reflect the interests of the business community, especially those outside
Maputo. Future support to business associations should directly target those in the
provinces and other sectoral associations.

The Center for Conciliation and Arbitration, a subsidiary entity linked to CTA, benefited
from technical assistance and capacity building support under PoDE while USAID
provided funding for its core costs. The center's work is seen as crucial for rapid



                                               39

business problem resolution as the formal judicial process is lengthy and fraught with
uncertainty. It has already adjudicated thirteen cases. The primary role of such as a
center is prevention of business disputes before formal adjudication and there is
increasing evidence that it is gaining prominence and acceptance among the business
community.

The Sector Specific Initiative sub-component did not materialize as a separate activity;
rather, the main thrust of work envisaged ­ the sectoral support ­was subsumed under the
work and studies with the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and the Regional Business
Support Initiative.

Rating

The overall rating for the capacity building component is moderately satisfactory.
Through its extensive support of key public and private agencies, PoDE played a
catalytic role in major reforms that were approved by the Mozambican authorities
(commercial code, business registration, tourism law, investment regulation). It also
advanced the agenda in key areas such as labor law and taxation. It succeeded in
strengthening the capacity of government agencies at the national and local levels. The
country's first industrial park was completed with PoDE's support and is attracting new
investment. However, the lack of institutional performance measurements rendering the
impact of some of its capacity building hard to determine and the sustainability of CPI is
in question. Furthermore, the impact of reforms undertaken will take time to emerge.




                                             40

Table One: Sectors Supported by the Firm Competitiveness Office
                  Sector             Number of
                                    Consultancies % of total
               Tourism                  201         28.15
             Engineering                101         14.15
            Agro-Industry               83          11.62
             Construction               54          7.56
          Print & Packaging             43          6.02
               Furniture                35          4.90
          Consumer Products             34          4.76
          Food & Beverages              24          3.36
               Services                 21          2.94
               Transport                18          2.52
    Clothing, Textiles, and Leather     18          2.52
                 Media                  17          2.38
                Timber                  17          2.38
                   IT                   13          1.82
              Handicrafts               12          1.68
         Chemicals, Minerals            11          1.54
            Rural Trading                8          1.12
       Fisheries, Fish Processing        2          0.28
          Auto Maintenance               1          0.14
              Electronics                1          0.14
                 Total                  714        100.0
Source: PoDECAT, Maputo Office




                                         41

Table Two: Training Subjects Offered by the Training and Advisory Office
         Training Subject           No.    % of total

               IT, MIS               293     21.40

              Hospitality            185     13.51

    Finance, financial management    123      8.98

           Vocational skills         116      8.47

              Production             76       5.55

         General management          65       4.75

          Sales & marketing          64       4.67

           Human resources           54       3.94

           Entrepreneurship          45       3.29

         Project management          45       3.29

        Business environment         37       2.70

           Health & safety           32       2.34

            Stock control            32       2.34

             Maintenance             27       1.97

    Quality control & management     26       1.90

          Customer relations         22       1.61

        Languages for business       22       1.61

      Civil construction budgets     19       1.39

            Administration           15       1.10

    Tendering & negotiating skills   15       1.10

            Environment              14       1.02

        Production management        13       0.95

        Conciliation, arbitration    11       0.80

            Business plans            4       0.29

         Customs procedures           4       0.29

      Instrumentation, hydraulics     4       0.29

          Engineering design          1       0.07

          Materials handling          1       0.07

        Website development           1       0.07

                 Misc.                3       0.22
                Total                1,369    100
Source: PoDECAT, Maputo Office




                                         42

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

The project's actual total cost was US$ 39.75 million compared to US $47.6 million
appraisal estimate - or 83.5 percent of estimated cost. Due to exchange rate changes, the
IDA credit of SDR 19.2 million (equivalent to US $ 26 million at the time of the
appraisal) is now equal to US$ 28.7 million. IDA disbursed US $ 25.01 million which is
96 percent of the original US dollar value. Due to the donor trust funds, the technical
learning component cost was at 135 percent of appraisal estimate. The finance
component cost was 43 percent of appraisal as a result of the reallocation. The capacity
building costs was 74 percent of appraisal estimate due to less than expected donor funds
and counterpart funding for this component. (See Annex 3 for detailed cost figures).

Technical Learning Component: The project disbursed US$ 1.86 million in firm
competitiveness grants and US$ 3.69 million in training and advisory grants. These
grants catalyzed an additional 50 percent of payment from the private sector (minus the
travel costs). There is limited data available on the effects of the matching grant
program. For estimating benefits under the matching grant, the ICR team used the
assumption in the PAD (based on analysis of other matching grants) that a dollar of
matching grant results in an output increase of 10 times the grant amount, of which one-
third is assumed to be genuinely incremental. In addition, the project generated US $ 65
million worth of sales contracts for 57 local suppliers under the linkage program; a third
of those linkages is assumed to be incremental and would continue beyond the project
life. Applying these assumptions yields an NPV of US$ 17.9 million and an ERR of 43
percent This ex-post estimate compares with the PAD NPV of US$ 17.6 million and
ERR of 38 percent. The reason for the increase in estimated returns is due to the higher
than forecasted matching grants disbursed and the linkage component results which
generated thirteen times more sales contracts than targeted (US$ 65 million vs. US$ 5
million).

Finance Component : The project lent US$ 4.29 million to 52 firms in a range of
sectors for both working capital and fixed investments. Some 85 percent of lending took
place in the last two years of the project and it is too early to judge the long-term benefits
of the lending on the individual enterprises as many of the loans were for equipment
purchases that take time to be installed and reach full operation. While the current
repayment rate stands at 95 percent, it will take time to establish the long-term
repayment rate for the borrowers. For these reasons, no NPV or ERR has been
calculated for this component.

Capacity Building Component: PODE provided US$ 12.83 million worth of capacity
building support under this component. The major reforms advanced by PoDE occurred
at the end of the project, but are likely to have a lasting impact in improving the business
environment in Mozambique. The bulk of the capacity building work on the industrial


                                              43

park and for CPI also took place in the last two years of the project, although it is
facilitating increased investment and should be contributing to government revenues.
Capacity building to the other partners was fairly steady throughout the project life.
However, financially quantifying the impact of capacity building interventions on public
and private agencies depends on assumptions that will take time to validate. Therefore,
no NPV or ERR has been calculated for this component.




                                             44

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title              Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Tyler S. Biggs          Consultant            PRMTR       PSD Specialist
Neil Simon M. Gray      Chief Admin. Officer  LCRRM       Joint TTL at preparation
Anthony Martin         Chief Financial
Hegarty                Management Off         LCRRM       Financial Management

V. S. Krishnakumar      Manager               AFTPC       Procurement
Brian David Levy        Adviser               PRMPS       Joint TTL at preparation
Marilyn Swann
Manalo                 Sr Operations Off.     AFTPS       Joint TTL at preparation

Francesco Sarno         Consultant            AFTS3       Procurement
Andrew L. Singer        Consultant            AFTP4       Matching Grant Schemes
Jose M. Sugar          Consultant             LCSAR       Disbursement
Kishor Uprety           Sr Counsel            LEGMS       Counsel
Supervision/ICR

Maxwell I. Aitken       Senior Manager        CSMST       Advice SME TA &
                                                          Financing
Sherri Ellen Archondo Sr Operations Off.      AFTFS       TTL (1999-2002)
Slaheddine Ben-
Halima                 Sr Procurement Spec.   AFTPC       Procurement

Mazen Bouri             Young Professional    YPP         ICR

David Bridgman         Lead Investment
                       Promotion Offi         MIGOP       Investment Promotion

Paul A. Burnett         Finance Analyst       LOAG2       Disbursement
Gerard A. Byam          Director              AFTQK       Advice on Credit Line
Antonio L. Chamuco     Procurement Spec.      AFTPC       Procurement
Muhamet Bamba Fall Underwriter                MIGOP       Investment Promotion
Joao Francisco Ferreira Finance Officer       LOAG2       Disbursement
Teresa De Jesus S.
McCue                  Finance Analyst        LOAG2       Disbursement

Suzanne F. Morris      Senior Finance Officer LOAG2       Disbursement
Maria Isabel
Nhassengo-Massingue    Procurement Asst.      AFCS2       Disbursement

Michael Ochieng         Lead Finance Officer  LOAG2       Disbursement
Miguel-Santiago da
Silva Oliveira         Finance Analyst        LOAG2       Disbursement

Bradford L. Roberts    Operations Officer     CSMLK       Business Development
Cecilia Sager           Lead Investment       MIGOP       Economic Zones




                                             45

Ahmet I.               Lead Financial Sector
Soylemezoglu           Speciali                AFTFS               Advice on Credit Line

Adelia N. Chebeia
Suurna                 Program Assistant       AFCS2               Program Support

Joao Tinga             Financial Management
                       Analyst                 AFTFM               Financial Management

Ronaldo Toledo         Investment Officer      CGMDR               Investment Promotion

Gilberto de Barros     Sr Private Sector                           TTL (2003- end of
                       Development             AFTPS               projec


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived           DO              IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   06/30/2000               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             0.00
2   12/28/2000               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             2.32
3   06/15/2001               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             3.89
4   12/20/2001               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             5.32
5   06/26/2002               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             7.54
6   12/12/2002               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             8.56
7   06/30/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            10.99
8   12/02/2003               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            12.84
9   06/03/2004               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            15.76
10 12/14/2004                Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            18.90
11 06/23/2005                Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            21.73
12 12/20/2005                Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            26.44
13 06/29/2006                Satisfactory   Satisfactory                            29.47


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                                 No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                       consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY98                                                           111.84
                    FY99                                                           173.97
                    FY00                                         16                 61.46
                    FY01                                                             0.00
                    FY02                                                             0.00
                    FY03                                                             0.00
                    FY04                                                             0.00
                    FY05                                                             0.00
                    FY06                                                             0.00
                    FY07                                                             0.00
                                         Total:                  16                347.27



                                             46

Supervision/ICR
                FY98                       2.26
                FY99                       3.00
                FY00                4      7.33
                FY01               16     60.70
                FY02               14     51.63
                FY03               29    114.43
                FY04               25     91.14
                FY05               16     68.05
                FY06               23     94.47
                FY07               14     79.13
                        Total:    141    572.14




                            47

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                  Ratings                Borrower            Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:  Unsatisfactory

Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory OverallBorrower   Moderately
Performance:                                    Performance:      Unsatisfactory




                                              48

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       49

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  50

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

      Summary of Input to ICR by the Borrower Implementing Agency - UASP

PoDE ­ Development Business Project is a project designed in 1999 to support and assist
the development of the country's private business sector to contribute to the growth of the
national economy. The Project was jointly designed by the Government and the private
sector and its effective implementation started in December 2000, when it was launched
nation-wide.

The World Bank, together with the Government of Mozambique, has financed the
Project since its start. In 2002, the resources to support the private sector development
were increased through the contribution of two donors (DFID and NORAD), which were
subsequently joined by the European Union (EU).

Many of the structural crisis and problems that characterised the Mozambican economy
at the time of its inception still persist, though less manifest at present than they were at
that time. Some of the reasons hampering sector private participation in the national
economy that still prevail can be found in the persistent problems relate to investment
climate, limited access to credit, existence of an unsuitable infra-structure and problems
relating to technical capacity available in enterprises.

Hence, some of the challenges that may be faced in a more overarching framework of
reforms aimed at improving the investment climate include the adoption of a more
flexible labour legislation that promotes the employment of labour, legal system reforms
that contribute to compliance with contracts entered into, investment in infra-structure
(inter alia, those that aim to improve the supply of electricity and reduce transport costs),
are some of the aspects to be considered.

However, investment aimed at improving the technical capacity of the private sector
continues to be essential. In the course of the years of Project implementation, this was
one of the aspects of greater relevance and, in our opinion, should continue to be a major
focus.

In order to enable it attain the proposed objectives, PoDE was structured in three main
components, namely:

    · Technical Training Component (CAT )

    · Financial Component (Credit line)
    · Institutional Component



Characterisation of PoDE's Management Structure

Governing body- The Advisory Council



                                               51

The Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIC), in its capacity as Government representative,
formally delegated the responsibilities of the Project to PoDE's Advisory Council; hence,
the overall responsibility for the implementation and coordination of the PoDE is
entrusted to the Advisory Council, which was accountable to MIC and jointly co-chaired
by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Confederation of Business Associations
(CTA) acting in representation of the private sector. The responsibility for the day-to-
day management of PoDE lies with an Project Implementation Unit (UASP).

Project Implementation Unit - PIU

The PIU's main tasks are to:
   · provide support to all PoDE's components in terms of procurement;
   · obtain procurement plans and disbursements from the implementing agencies,
   · communicate with the World Bank to ensure adequate funding of and prompt
       disbursement from the special account;
   · receive all quarterly progress, audit, mid-term and implementation completion
       reports from implementing agencies, for review and submission to CDP, the
       Government and IDA,;
   · carry out all support functions to the Advisory Council;
   · administer credit for the Financial Component, under supervision of the Bank of
       Mozambique.

PoDE's Components Performance, Lessons Learned, and Recommendations

CAT- Technical Training Component
   The Technical Training Component comprises three sub-components:


   · Firm Competitiveness Office (FCO)
   · Training and Advisory Office (TAO)
   · Linkage Program (LPO)



Firm Competitiveness Office- (FCO)

Regarding payment requests, the initial FCO budget was almost attained (actual USD 1.9
million against USD 2.0 estimated, or 93% attainment. This result points to limited
business capacity to use matching grants, and stems from the fact that businesses have
financial constraints to cover the relatively high cost of consulting services. On the other
hand, CAT tried to focus on the quality and not in the quantity of projects. The matching
grant value attained corresponds to 32% geographical dispersion of the volume for the
Provinces and 68% for Maputo City and province, this value is in accordance with the
high concentration of businesses in Maputo.

Lessons Learned:



                                             52

    · Scheme can be successful in Mozambique;
    · It should be actively supported by the staff managing the Office (expert-intensive
       hands-on) in order to yield results. Staff have to have a proactive stance
       (importance of the management contractor)
    · Notwithstanding the payment to 100% of travel expenses and FCO staff travel to
       the provinces, an effort should be made with a view to enabling the full
       participation of the Provinces in the scheme
    · The core objective must be more focused, namely, enhance the transfer of new
       technologies and generation of knowledge spillover. Therefore, the objective will
       be to focus on businesses and projects that can provide higher returns rather than
       on quantity

Recommendations
    · Continuation of FCO, with some improvements;
    · Focus the attention on projects that can generate knowledge spillover and
       development of clusters with comparative advantage;
    · Maintain the percentage of the Matching Grant (50/50%);
    · Prompt refund of expenses incurred by businesses and FCO;
    · Improve integration with the private sector and regional business associations;
    · Improve dissemination (publicity).

Training and Advisory Office(TAO)

Vis-avis the targets, TAO far exceeded the initial expectations. The initial expectation in
relation to the number of courses to be administered turned out to be significantly lower
than the actual figure, however, the costs for each course initially budgeted was over-
estimated at the time.

Findings pertaining to the Training and Advisory Office:


    · Greater supply and demand for training courses than anticipated
    · More than 30,000 people trained
    · Around 5,000 to 7,000 businesses sent employees to the courses
    · Unit amounts of the approved courses reduced from USD 5,600 (2001) to a little
       less than USD 4,000 (2005)
    · Around 25% of the employees trained were women



Lessons Learned

    · TAO was successful in training a large number of people; however, its impact has
       been and is uncertain. TAO did not focus on the strategic sectors and linkage
       between CAT Offices was lacking. It is, however, worth pointing out that due to
       the low level of education and management skills, the more general nature of



                                            53

       TAO is relevant for the attainment of the objective of human capital development
    · Additionality seems to have occurred
    · One of the major outcomes was the extension of the courses outside Maputo
    · Some concerns were raised regarding the quality of the courses administered.
       Notwithstanding the fact that TAO reviewed the qualifications of the trainers and
       the curricula, it had no means to enable it to monitor the quality of the course,
       assist in curricular development or certify the trainers.
    · There is also the issue of sustainability of the companies providing the training.



Recommendations

    · Focus the attention on courses for key industries and technologies;
    · Design a monitoring and evaluation system (definition of indicators for
       intermediate results, as well as final outcomes ­ enterprise growth, productivity).
       Collect initial data and set up a control group.
    · Ensure better integration with other Offices
    · Provide more resources so as to improve the quality of the training (certification
       system)
    · Avoid delays in trainer payment
    · Provide assistance to the trainers to become economically viable



Linkage Program(LPO)

The initial target of this Office amounted to US$5 million of contracts to be assisted,
were revisited when Phase II of Mozal was developed as well as other major projects (for
instance, Sasol gas pipeline, the heavy sands project, the sugar industry and beverages
and hypermarkets sectors ­ Shoprite and Game). LPO also started to integrate the
Suppliers' Development Programme (Mozlink I and II) that brought about a new
dynamics to the country's Linkage programme. The contracts entered into under the
auspices of this Office increased annually to a maximum of US$ 20 million, in
2004, when the Office focused more of its activities in the area of maintenance and
explored other sectors in addition to the mega projects. The overall contract value
reached US$ 65 million.

Lessons Learned
    · Overall, the Linkage Office highlighted the importance of the 'linkage' to the
       country's economy. All players in the process highlighted the positive role played
       by this office
    · The Linkage Office contributed to the spillover of foreign investment; however, it
       is very difficult to measure the magnitude of this contribution
    · The Linkage Office managed to obtain a series of contracts, it is worth noting that
       businesses were able to get technical assistance (consultancy and training).
Recommendations
    · Linkage Office to be continued




                                             54

    · Increase the spillover effect
    · Assist FCO and TAO in the facilitation of new technologies for Mozambique
    · Linkage Office to be more selective in the identification of local suppliers and in
       the facilitation of support for their upgrading
    · Ensure that management contractor resources are available in order to undertake
       linkage labour and expert-intensive activities.

FINANCIAL COMPONENT

Existing constraints in the market were not overcome through the Financial Component,
which did not consider the major problems on the demand and supply side within the
financial sector, among which the following are highlighted:


    · High interest rate (high cost of funds and loan risk)
    · Culture of non-repayment
    · Problems in bad loan recovery
    · Poor business accounting and auditing standards
    · Institutional and judicial aspects rendering the investment climate difficult
    · Lack of bankable projects for funding



In terms of the number of financing granted by modality, the distribution is proportional,
revealing a concentration in Maputo City and Province. The proportion of the volume of
financing granted at the provincial level represents 28%, against 72% for Maputo (City
and Province), with the highest volume of financing granted to the food and beverages
industry.

Lessons Learned
    · The Line was very restrictive, very expensive (other cheaper funds available),
       very expensive to implement and very bureaucratic
    · Greater participation of GAPI in the Credit Line results from the fact that it is a
       different institution from commercial banks for it does not take deposits and,
       consequently, requiring third party resources (such as those of PoDE) to
       undertake its operations, as well as having lower costs that enable it to manage
       loans of small amounts
    · Some business concerns used CAT and the Credit Line jointly; however, greater
       interaction required.
    · Delays in the payment of approved loans, especially as from the end of 2005
       resulted in poor publicity for the Credit Line

    · Businesses used the loans to realize new investments on fixed assets
    · Various businesses used the Credit Line resources to carry out contracts with
       other Linkage businesses
    · Nonetheless, half the businesses were not aware of the other components of




                                              55

        PoDE


Recommendations

   · Consider a Credit Line with a fixed interest rate to protect borrowers during the
        periods of high interest rates peaks
   · Bear in mind that there is a financing minimum amount, below which commercial
        financial institutions are not predisposed to financing
   · Maintain loans in foreign currency
   · Procedures for the approval of changes to agreements should be improved and
        reduced; likewise, the processing of the operations should be simplified
   · A full project components dissemination system to be put in place (cross selling
        system)

   · Institutional changes (judicial system, for example) aimed at improving the
        investment climate within the country


INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT

Institutional Component was relevant in so far as it addressed the constraints to the
development of the private sector and points to the existence of concrete positive results,
such as, for instance:


   · Passing of the Commercial Code;
   · Preparation of the new labour legislation;
   · Strengthening of CTA's institutional capacity;
   · Relaxation of excessive formalities (red tape) ­ through the support provided to
        Private Sector Development Office in MIC

   · Support to Private Sector Conferences (CASPs) ­ that provided additional
        clarification and improved the private-public dialogue;
   · Enhancing the public sector institutional capacity (as a result of the training that
        the institutions' officials received with the support of PoDE)


The Institutional Component Activities funded through PoDE's support common to all
beneficiaries

   · Training:

                     Long and Short Duration Courses
                     Medium and Higher level courses, including the Master's degree level
                     Technical and Management courses



                                              56

                     Workshops and Seminars (locally and abroad)
        · IT equipment purchase, means of transport and assorted furniture

MIC- Ministry of Industry and Trade

In addition to the Institutional Component's activities common to all beneficiaries,
subordinate institutions to MIC, PoDE has provided direct assistance in the operations of
the Private Sector Development Office an advisory body falling directly under the
Minister of Industry and Trade for all activities related with facilitation and improvement
of the business environment.

        · Cashew Study
        · Investors Conference on the Reclassification of Industrial Establishments
        · Metal and Mechanical Sector Strategy
        · Chemical Sector Strategy
        · Reform of the Commercial Code
        · Dissemination of assorted pieces of legislation
        · Conducting the Study on the Valuable Chains ranging from the Cotton to the
            Textile sector, Wood and Wood Processing and the fruit-growing sector (from
            plantation to marketing / banana and mango industrialisation)

MITUR - Ministry of Tourism

PoDE's support has enabled the strengthening of MITUR's capacity in the
implementation of the Government's Programme and improvement of dialogue with the
private sector and improvement of the business environment in the following areas:

        · Tourism Policy
        · Tourism Law
        · Reclassification of hotel establishments
        · Tourism Portal
        · Seminars for dissemination and debate on legislation
        · Organisation of Tourism Statistics
        · Investment Promotion Missions (Malaysia, Brazil, Portugal)
        · Participation in various Trade Fairs
        · Support in the organisation of the Association of Travel and Tourism
            Agencies (APAVT) Congress, held in Maputo towards the end of 2005
        · Support in the organisation of the Tourism Value Chain Presentation Seminar

CPI - Centre for Investments Promotion

CPI is an institution subordinated to the Ministry of Planning and Development that has
benefited from PoDE's support in its activities. Below are some highlights of CPI
activities that have benefited from PoDE's support:




                                            57

       · Investment Law Regulation
       · Development of Industrial Free Zones         Beluluane Industrial Estate
       · Environmental Impact Assessment - EIA
       · Investment Promotion missions to Australia, China, Cuba, Denmark, Macau,
           Dubai, Germany, Italy Hong Kong, Malaysia, Netherlands, South Africa,
           Portugal, Korea, Sweden, UK
       · Formulation of the Strategic Plan
       · Direct operational support

CTA - Confederation of Business Associations of Mozambique

Within framework of PoDE's support, CTA continued to develop with a view to evolving
into a globalising organization focusing its activities on the interaction with the
Government and on providing services to the various Sector Private associations in
Mozambique. CTA established its head office in Maputo with regional branches in
Central and Northern Mozambique, representing the business interests of the whole
country and all sectors.

CTA maintains a direct relationship with the 150 alternating businessmen and
technicians, who represent the 14 areas of advisory mechanisms. Association and
business leaders affiliated to various CTA associations have participated in international
business missions, trade fairs and fora, with special highlight to the World Economic
Forum.

PoDE's institutional support to CTA was extended to the organisation and processes of
the confederation's consultative mechanisms, especially, in the organisation of the
Annual Private Sector Conferences, the South, Centre and North Regional Private Sector
Conferences as well as in the Extended Consultative Council. With PoDE's support, a
review as well as a strategy were undertaken for CTA's restructuring; and with PoDE's
support, CTA participated in various studies and projects supporting the Mozambican
Private Sector Overall Agenda, for instance, the preparation of the new Commercial
Code, Enterprise Survey ­ Industry, and the Value Chain Studies on Strategic Products.

Lessons Learned
       · Lack of Focus: this problem results from the Project design itself, which did
           not contain a clear definition of the eligible expenses for each beneficiary of
           Component; and
       · Lack of critical mass in many areas

Recommendations:
       · Focus support on fewer policies and institutional areas;
       · Clarify the activities to be supported;
       · Improve donor coordination;
       · Design and implement a monitoring and evaluation system, with quantitative
           indicators.



                                           58

          Comments on ICR by the Borrower Implementing Agency - UASP

The PoDE ICR was distributed to all the Project Advisory Committee members and the
different project beneficiaries.

Based on the analysis provided in the ICR, we are pleased to note that the project has met
its development objectives. Regarding the ICR rating for the PIU, we disagree with the
rating. From what we understand it is the UASP team which implemented PoDE. All
the work done in PoDE had a direct or indirect intervention from the UASP, including
the TLC. There is a need to take into account the proactive role that UASP had during
the entire implementation period. We acknowledge that there were mistakes that
happened during the last year. We are left with the impression that the ICR did not
analyze all the activities carried out by the UASP.

Regarding the credit line, the main constraints related to the credit line were exogenous
factors such as high interest rates, high collateral requirements, no risk sharing
mechanism, the existence of cheaper credit lines, lack of financial statements by the
borrowers, and the excess liquidity in commercial banks. There were several requests to
adjust the credit line as well as significant amount of work with the commercial banks so
that they can use the credit line. As for the marketing, it was not an easy task given the
financial product's characteristics. When PoDE changed strategy, it managed to make
several loans and it is on that basis and thanks to modifications to the credit line structure
that the UASP was able to go on to more aggressive marketing campaign. We would
like to emphasize that it is through the continuous work of the UASP that GAPI was
brought in as an intermediary.

On the investment climate, the ICR noted that there were several improvements;
however, the rating for the capacity building component is moderately satisfactory. We
believe this rating should be upgraded. Without PoDE, it would have been more difficult
to meet some of the reforms that have been implemented. We would like to emphasize
the work that PoDE did create a better dialogue between the public and private sector.
There was a lot of capacity building in several ministries including on the job training. It
is necessary to have an evaluation of the capacity of these institutions before and after
PoDE.

Regarding the relatively high salaries of the UASP, we do not have an opinion since we
do not have the remuneration of the other projects or their respective workloads.
Regarding monitoring indicators, they were prepared for each beneficiary; however, we
were not successful in obtaining responses from the beneficiaries. In concluding, we
acknowledge that there were some mistakes in our work and we take responsibility for it.
However, it is important that the work that was done be acknowledged.

During its working session o f 24 January 2007, the Project Advisory Committee
acknowledged that the PoDE project met its development objectives.




                                              59

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The ICR mission met with representatives of the EU and NORAD who were involved in
overseeing their respective parallel contribution to PoDE. Comments were also received
from EU and NORAD on the draft ICR.

NORAD:

Summary of discussion during ICR Mission:

NORAD representative believes that the technical learning component achieved
outstanding results given the constraints of the country. NORAD believes that the
training provided under the institutional component was necessary for capacity building,
even if there are difficulties in determining the outcome of the training. The credit line
had a reasonable performance given the constraints in the banking sector that PODE was
not equipped tackle. NORAD is keen to continue with future projects jointly with the
World Bank as it is felt that there a big and continuing need for the private sector for
operations similar to PODE.

Comments on ICR

The ICR fairly reflects the outcomes of the project as well as the main concerns. The
focus that is recommended for future undertakings, while it is indeed required, should
also have a built-in flexibility so that the focus does not become rigidity that ultimately
bottlenecks the project implementation and impact. Regarding impact data collection by
the management contractor (consultant), it is it more appropriate for a
neutral/independent body to perform that function. The ICR should note that the co-
donors urge the Bank to rethink its management / leading role, taking into account host
country policies and priorities but also more information sharing and openness to
dialogue with both co-donors and host governments.

EU:

Summary of discussion during ICR Mission

The EU was pleased to contribute to PODE's technical learning program as it provided a
good learning ground on the challenges and issues facing the private sector in
Mozambique. EU feels that the technical learning program components was successful
in broadening access to business services for the private sector. However, there was
concern about the sustainability of results achieved. As for the credit line, there was
recognition of the important role played by GAPI in disbursing loans. The credit line and
technical learning components were not well linked and operated as separate entities. It
was difficult to determine the impact of the institutional component due to the range of
partners and multiplicity of activities. EU did commend the outreach in the institutional



                                               60

component to the regions and the increased prominence of private sector issues in the
government, partially contributed by PODE sponsored training and conferences. The
supervision missions with the Bank were useful and informative; however, the missions
could have been better coordinated and structured within the donor community.

Comments on ICR

The ICR reflects well the main outcomes of the project. The report can highlight that the
disbanding of the Technical Learning unit resulted in a loss of the accumulated
experiences, even though many of the staff have since joined similar programs. On
lessons learned, it would be important to clarify the TORs of future management
contractors to include collection of impact data. The fact that the targets were exceeded
significantly in the Technical Learning Program is a good achievement but that may also
reflect on overly conservative targets in the design. Finally, performance indicators
should be used in providing institutional support such as under the Capacity Building
Component.




                                             61

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back to Office Reports, Project Supervision Reports, Implementation
Status and Results Reports, MIGA Supervision Reports.
2. Development Credit Agreement, Mozambique Enterprise Development Project, March
1st, 2000.
3. Project Appraisal Document, Mozambique Enterprise Development Project, December
29, 1999.
4. Input to the PODE Implementation Completion and Results Report, UASP, November
2006.
5. Final Evaluation of the PODE Enterprise Development Project, June 24, 2006.
6. PODE-CAT End of Assignment Report for Technical Learning Component,
International Development Ireland, Ltd. And Cimpoge st LDA, September 2006.
7. Value Chain Analysis for Strategic Sectors in Mozambique, Global Development
Solutions, LLC, April 2005
8. PODE Impact Assessment, GBD&M Inc, January 2003.
9. Mozambique Country Assistance Strategy for 2004 ­ 2007, October 20, 2003.
10. Mozambique Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report , February 20, 2006.
11. Mozambique Country Economic Memorandum: Sustaining Growth and Reducing
Poverty, September 27, 2005.
12. Mozambique Industrial Performance and Investment Climate Assessment 2003,
August 2003.




                                          62

MAP




       63

