Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3317-MOZ
Project Agreement
(Enterprise Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO DE MOCAMBIQUE
Dated March 1, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3317-MOZ 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and BANCO DE MOCAMBIQUE (BM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million 
two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
BM agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and BM the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to BM on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS BM, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, and in the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of BM
Section 2.01. (a) BM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and banking practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and BM shall otherwise agree, BM shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) BM undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans and Investments will be made in accordance with the procedures and on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
BM shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of BM; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) 
achieve the purposes of the Project. 
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) BM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part B of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, BM shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, 30 days after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and BM, a plan for the future operation of Part B of 
the Project; and 
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with BM on said plan. 
Section 2.05. BM shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BM shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) BM shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
BM shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BM of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
Section 2.07. BM shall implement Part B of the Project, in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BM 
shall not amend or waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, 
such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the overall 
Page  3
implementation of the Project. 
Section 2.08. BM shall, not later than May 31, 2002, take all necessary measures 
to lift the credit ceilings.
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BM shall maintain procedures and records adequate to monitor 
and record the progress of Part B of the Project and of each Investment Project 
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and 
financial condition of BM and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part B of the Project and each Investment Project.
(b)
BM shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above  
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than  six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or 
(ii)
the date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify BM of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Banco de Moçambique:
Governor
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Relaçoes Internacionais
Maputo
Republic of Mozambique
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOBANCO
6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BM or by BM on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Governor or by such other person or persons as the Governor shall 
designate in writing, and BM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANCO DE MOCAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcos Namashulua
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Terms and Conditions of Subloans and Investments 
A.
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.
Currency
All Subloans shall be made and denominated in Meticais.
2.
Interest Rates
Interest on Subloans to Investment Enterprises shall be charged at a variable 
rate determined by PFIs on a quarterly basis.
3. Maturities
Page  5
The term of any Subloan shall be 2- 1/2 to 7 years, with a maximum grace period 
of one year, unless otherwise agreed between the Association and BM.
4.
Maximum Size
(a)
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the maximum size of any 
Traditional Subloan shall be $300,000 equivalent.  No Traditional Subloan shall be 
made to any Investment Enterprise if the aggregate of such proposed  Traditional 
Subloan and the outstanding balances under all other Traditional Subloans to such 
Investment Enterprise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit exceeds $300,000 
except as the Association may otherwise agree.
(b)
The maximum size of any Special Facility Subloan shall be $15,000 
equivalent. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, no Special Facility Subloan 
shall be made to any Investment Enterprise if the aggregate of such proposed Subloan 
and the outstanding balances under all other  Special Facility Subloans to such 
Investment Enterprise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit exceeds such amount.
5.
Prepayment
Any Subloan or any part of any such Subloan may be repaid to a PFI in advance of 
maturity without penalty.
B.
Eligibility Criteria for Investment Enterprises and  Investment Projects
1.
Only Investment Enterprises that qualify as majority owned Private Enterprises, 
and  established and operating under the laws of the Borrower shall be eligible to 
receive Subloans from PFIs to carry out Investment Projects.
2.
For any Investment Project to be eligible for financing under a Subloan:
(a)
the Investment Enterprise  shall have no outstanding loans in default;
(b)
the Investment Project must be financially and technically viable, 
consistent with existing environmental policies and environmentally sound, as 
determined in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)
except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Investment Project 
must not involve financing for  commodity–based farming, real estate or finance 
sector.
3.
Eligibility criteria for the Special Facility Subloan
A Special Facility Subloan shall only be  made available to the Investment 
Enterprises which meet the following requirements: (i) no history of previous formal 
borrowing from banks including no previous borrowing under the Special Facility 
Subloan; (ii) minimum equity contribution of 10 percent of the investment project; and 
(iii) a maximum  of US$40,000 in total assets.
4.
Eligibility criteria for Traditional Subloan
A Traditional Subloan shall be made available only to the Investment Enterprises 
which meet the following requirements: (i) no outstanding loans in default; (ii) 
minimum equity of 25 percent of the amount of the investment project; (iii) a maximum 
of US$500,000 in  total assets.
C.
Principal Terms and Conditions of PFI Subsidiary Loans and Participation 
Agreements
1.
 Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the following principal terms 
and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.02 
of this Agreement with respect to Participation Agreements.
(a)
Amount and Currency
BM shall onlend to any PFI from the proceeds of the Credit for the purpose of 
making any Subloan an amount in Metical  (the PFI Subsidiary Loan) equal to the amount 
of such Sub- loan.
(b)
Interest on a PFI Subsidiary Loan shall be charged on the principal 
amount thereof outstanding from time to time at the average of the 180-day deposit 
rate of each commercial bank reported to  BM, calculated at least on a quarterly 
Page  6
basis.
(c)
PFI Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid by a PFI to BM in accordance with 
fixed amortization schedules.
(d)
PFI Subsidiary Loan  can be prepaid without penalty.
(e)
A maximum exposure level for each PFI shall be set at $1,500,000 or 10% 
of  the PFI’s networth, whichever is lower.
2.
Eligibility Criteria for PFIs
(a)
Any bank or financial institution operating in the territory of the 
Borrower shall become eligible as a PFI if it shall have satisfied the following 
criteria during the preceding twelve month period:
(i)
compliance, if applicable, with monetary regulations and banking 
laws and regulations, and membership in the clearing house system 
of BM;
(ii)
compliance with the prudential regulatory requirements of BM, 
including capital adequacy ratio, maximum  loan concentration 
limits, loan classification and provisioning, and foreign exchange 
risk exposure;
(iii)
a net profit evidenced by audited accounts prepared in accordance  
with international standards;
(iv)
total non-performing loans of less than 20% of portfolio;
(v)
presentation of a document describing and showing a satisfactory 
term-lending organizational structure, staff experience, policies 
and procedures and training program.
(vi)
implementation of financing policies and operating procedures 
satisfactory to BM and the Association, relating, among other 
things, to credit policy and to asset review and loan recovery 
procedures; and
(vii)
technical, financial and administrative capacity for managing its 
lending activities, and operating policies, procedures, 
organization and staffing for evaluating and supervising loans, 
satisfactory to BM and the Association.
(b)
The eligibility of PFIs shall immediately cease if:
(i)
collections on Subloans drop to  less than 85% of amounts coming 
due;
(ii)
required annual audit reports are not received within 45 days of 
their respective due date, or contain qualified opinion;
(iii)
required quarterly progress reports are not received 45 days  of 
their respective due dates; and
(iv)
the PFIs cease to meet  the criteria as detailed  in paragraph (a) 
above.
3.
Processing Subloan Applications
BM shall ensure that PFIs adopt the following procedures when processing Subloan 
applications for Investment Projects:
(a)
PFIs shall carry out the appraisal of Investment Projects in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Association, which shall include: (i) a review of 
the financial and technical viability of the Investment Project and of the financing 
plan, (ii) an assessment of the management capacity of the Investment Enterprise, and 
(iii) a determination that the Investment Project complies with existing policies 
pertaining to the environment and is environmentally sound; and
(b)
PFIs shall determine the eligibility of the Investment Enterprise and 
Investment Project for Subloan financing under this Schedule.
Page  7
4.
Participation Agreements
(a)
PFIs shall relend the Meticais equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit 
to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects, for terms of 2-1/2  to 7 years, 
including a one year period of grace, unless otherwise agreed between the Association 
and BM.
(b)
PFIs shall determine and charge a variable interest rate on Subloans to 
Investment Enterprises. Such rate shall not be less than the rate  charged by BM to 
PFIs, as referred to in paragraph C.1(b) of this Schedule.
5.
Each Participation Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to which each PFI 
shall:
(a)
continue to be duly established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower;
(b)
appraise the financial, technical, environmental and economic feasibility 
of Subprojects;
(c)
make Subloans to Investment Enterprises under Part B of the Project on 
the basis of the criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth in this 
Schedule;
(d)
maintain the organization, management staff and other resources required 
for the efficient carrying out of its activities and for the management of Subloans 
granted to Investment Enterprises;
(e)
be required to submit detailed quarterly reports on Subloans including 
information on amounts collected, amounts overdue, and aging of  overdue amounts;
(f)
required to pay a penalty  at twice the interest rate charged to PFIs, 
for amounts remaining undisbursed to Sub-borrowers, or any disbursement which is not 
consistent with  the  agreed requirements and  which is not returned  within one month 
of the scheduled disbursement;
(g)
provide BM and the Association with all such information as they may 
reasonably request; and
(h)
carry out a general review of the Subprojects either (i) after the 
initial allocation for the traditional  Subloans or special facility Subloans have 
been fully committed, or (ii) on the date the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 
4 (b) of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement is carried out, whichever 
comes earlier. Thenafter, following the lifting of credit ceiling by BM as referred to 
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, PFIs shall be eligible for additional commitments 
following their provision of matching funds equal to at least one third of the amount 
to be made available to individual Sub-projects.
6.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days 
prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Subloan for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account 
and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the 
date on which the Association shall have received the request and information required 
under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the 
purposes of the Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan 
shall be a Subloan for an Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum of $100,000 equivalent, when 
added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit or of any other credit, provided for in any outstanding 
development credit agreement between the Borrower and the Association entered into 
before the date of this Agreement, the proceeds of which have been or are being used 
for financing goods and services directly and materially related to such Investment 
Project. 
Page  8
7.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan) or an 
Investment to the Association for approval, BM shall furnish to the Association an 
application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with (i) a description 
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule 
of amortization of the Subloan or of repayment of the amount of the Credit to be used 
for the Investment; and (iii) such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by BM for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary description of 
the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association on 
or before December 31, 2003.
8.
Subloans and Investments shall be made on terms whereby BM shall obtain, by 
written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, 
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and BM including, in the 
case of any Subloan and, to the extent that it shall be appropriate, in the case of 
any Investment, the right to:
(a)
require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods and services to be  financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability 
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, 
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering 
them; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out  
the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or BM shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Investment Project;
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with BM; and
(g)
require annually, from the PFIs, audited reports in accordance with 
internationally acceptable standards.
9.
Other
(a)
BM shall ensure that Part  B of the Project is managed through UASP which 
shall serve as the Credit Administrator (the Credit Administrator). BM shall be 
primarily responsible for ensuring that the PFIs are solvent, well-managed, and 
operating in accordance with sound  financial policies.  The Credit Administrator 
shall be responsible for the day-to-day administration and ensuring that the Subloans 
are provided to eligible Investment Enterprises and for assisting PFIs in efficiently, 
Page  9
and in a timely manner  intermediating funds, and monitoring the repayment 
performances of  sub-borrowers.
(b)
During the approval process, BM shall be responsible for ascertaining  
and certifying the eligibility of the PFIs, and for confirming approval of the PFI’s 
participation within three days of the receipt of application  to the Credit 
Administrators.  The Credit Administrator shall be responsible for the administrative 
aspects and shall, within seven days of confirmation by BM of the PFI’s eligibility, 
approve or disapprove individual Subloans based on the eligibility criteria without 
assessing the feasibility or other appraisal elements of Subloans.
(c)
The BM shall cause the Credit Administrator to obtain from PFI their 
detailed quarterly reports on Subloans and shall monitor the information on amount 
collected, amounts overdue and the aging of overdue amounts.
