Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3317 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 1, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3317-MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by Banco de Moçambique (BM) 
with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to BM part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and BM;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(b)
The words "the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving 
of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled" set forth at the end of 
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 7 (c) of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement, the Association shall, in respect of any portion of the 
Credit: (i) have received no applications or requests permitted under 
subparagraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph 7(c); or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or 
to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect 
to 
such amount or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount 
or portion of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: "BM" means Banco de 
Moçambique, the Borrower’s central bank;  
(a)
"Credit Administrator" means the Credit Administrator referred to in 
paragraph 9 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(b)
"free-limit Subloan" means a Subloan (as hereinafter defined), which 
qualifies as a free-limit Subloan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph C.6 (b) of 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(c)
"Grants" means grants provided by the Borrower  under Parts A.1 and A.2 
of the Project;  
(d)
"Grantee" means the recipient of the Grants provided under Part A.2 of 
the Project; 
(e)
"Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise legally established and 
operating in the territory of the Borrower in the sectors which meet the criteria set 
forth in paragraphs B.1 and B.2 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and to or for 
which a PFI (as hereinafter defined) has made or proposes to make a Subloan for an 
Investment Project;
(f)
"Investment Project" means a specific development project to be carried 
out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan; 
(g)
"IPC" means the Investment Promotion Center, within MICTUR (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(h)
"Management Contractor" means the Management Contractor referred to in 
paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, employed by the Borrower for the purpose 
of assisting the Borrower in the carrying out Part A of the Project; 
(i)
"MICTUR" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Trade and Tourism; 
(j)
"Mozambican Metical" or "Mt" means the currency of the Borrower;  
(k)
"Performance Indicators" means the indicators specified in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement; 
(l)
"PFI" or "Participating Financial Institution" means a commercial bank, 
development bank or financial institution, acceptable to the Association to which BM 
has lent, under an agreement (a "Participating Agreement"), proceeds of the credit for 
relending to Investment Enterprise for Investment Projects; 
(m)
"PFI Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made by BM to any PFI for any Subloan, 
as described in paragraph C of the Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
(n)
"Project Account" means the Account referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; 
Page  3
(o)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and BM of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(p)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan to be adopted by the 
Borrower  pursuant  to paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement; 
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(r)
"Pode Steering Committee" or "PSC" means the committee established by the 
Borrower on December 28, 1999, for the purpose of the overall coordination of the 
Project;  
(s)
"Recipient firm" means  any firm receiving Grant support under Part A.1 
of the Project; 
(t)
"Special Account" means  the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(u)
"Subloan" means a loan, to include either a Special Facility Subloan (as 
hereinafter defined) or a Traditional Subloan (as hereinafter defined), made or 
proposed to be made by a PFI to an Investment Enterprise out of the equivalent of the 
proceeds of the Credit; 
(v)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and BM pursuant to Section 3.01(d) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
(w)
"Special Facility Subloan" means  any Subloan which meets the criteria as 
detailed in paragraph B.3 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;  
(x)
"Traditional Subloan" means any Subloan which meets the criteria as 
detailed in paragraph B.4 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and 
(y)
"UASP" means Unidade de Apoio ao Sector Privado, the private sector 
support unit established within the Pode Steering Committee. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR19,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the 
Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an Investment Enterprise under a Subloan to 
meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account (Special Account) in BM on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 2010 and ending August 15, 
2039.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 15, 2019 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A and C of the Project through MICTUR, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, and technical 
Page  5
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Parts A and C of the Project.  
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement the Borrower  shall cause BM to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the BM Project Agreement all the obligations of BM 
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable BM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through MICTUR and cause BM to carry out 
Part B of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall relend the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Categories (3) and (4)  of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to BM under a subsidiary loan 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BM under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.  Except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following:  
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by BM 
in Metical to the Borrower in full at the end of a 10 year grace 
period;  
(ii)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan repayable by BM shall 
be the equivalent in  Metical (determined as of the date, or 
respective dates, of withdrawal) of the value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account in respect of the 
above-mentioned categories; 
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
subsidiary loan at a rate equal to the six month deposit rate 
prevailing at the date of withdrawal; and
(iv)
the requirement that BM employ the proceeds from the repayment of 
Subloans to finance term-credit needs in accordance with  the 
criteria set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(e)
For the purposes of Part  B of the Project, the Borrower shall exercise 
its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association, 30 days  after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of Parts A and C of  the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project shall be carried out by BM pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.05  The Borrower shall open and maintain an account in Metical (the 
Page  6
Project Account), in BM on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, and, on 
a quarterly basis, shall deposit therein its quarterly contribution to the costs of 
the Project decided jointly by the Borrower and the Association, and all such amounts 
as may be required for the purpose of the implementation of the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A and C of the Project of 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out Parts A and C 
of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account  for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the Effective 
Date, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
Page  7
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association no later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified namely that BM shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower 
and BM; 
(b)
the Participating Agreements with at least  two PFIs have been entered 
into; 
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has installed an accounting system for the purpose of  
Section  4.01 of  this Agreement, acceptable to the Association; 
(e)
the Borrower has adopted a financial procedures manual, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association; 
(f)
the Borrower has, for the purpose of carrying out auditing under the 
Project, appointed an external auditor in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(g)
the Borrower has appointed the Management Contractor; and 
(h)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: (a)
that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by BM, and is legally binding upon BM in accordance 
with its terms; and (b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower and BM and is legally binding upon the Borrower and BM in 
accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Bank of Moçambique is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Page  8
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Governor
Banco de Moçambique
Departamento de Relaçoes Internacionais
Maputo
Republic of Mozambique
Cable address: 
Telex:
MOBANCO
6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By /s/ Marcos Namashulua 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditure
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Finances
(1)
Goods including 
    520,000
100% of foreign 
vehicles
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures
Page  9
(2)
Consultants' services
  5,400,000
100%
including training
and audit
(3)
Subloans
  7,230,000
100%
(4)
Grants under Part B.2
    150,000
100%
(5)
Incremental operating
  1,180,000
90%
costs
(6)
Grants under Part A.1
  2,950,000
50% of costs of
and A.2
consultants
services
(7)
Unallocated
  1,770,000
 __________
TOTAL
 19,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, including office supplies, vehicle 
operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil 
servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR630,000, may be made in respect of Category 2 on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after October, 1999; and 
(b)
in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) services of firms under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of individual consultants 
under  contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iv) grants and subloans 
below $100,000 each; and (v) all Incremental operating costs, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to broaden the base of private participation in 
economic growth of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Technical Learning in Firms 
1.
Acquisition of equipment and vehicles and provision of grant funds to cover 
technical advisory services or training on a cost-sharing basis to private business 
entities to facilitate the production of goods and tradable services within the 
territory of the Borrower, and trading of goods and services.  
Page  10
2.
Acquisition of equipment and vehicles and provision of technical advisory 
services and training to support the development of an active business and technical 
training market in the territory of the Borrower, including provision of grants on a 
cost-sharing basis to trainers for the development of training courses. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance (i) to 
facilitate the process of re-orienting local supplier firms to the international 
standards of performance expected by purchaser firms, and (ii) to facilitate supply 
linkages between national, joint-venture or foreign owned firms.
Part B:
Credit Line
1.
The financing of specific investment projects through loans to private 
enterprises, including provision of medium-term financing for investment and permanent 
working capital for private sub-borrowers in all sectors excluding finance and real 
estate.
2.
The financing of specific investment projects through loans and parallel 
quasi-equity funds, for small, first time bank borrowers and provision of medium-term 
financing for investment, including permanent working capital for private 
sub-borrowers in all sectors excluding finance and real estate.
Part C:
Capacity Building
1. 
Provision of technical advisory services, vehicles, equipment and logistical 
assistance to IPC: (i) to support its core activities and development; (ii) to support 
the development of export free zones; and (iii) to conduct, in conjunction with the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, environmental impact assessments and carry out 
activities related to industrial licensing and compliance monitoring and structuring 
environmental requirements for inclusion in the financial models and in the free zone 
tender documents.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services, vehicles, equipment and logistical 
assistance to MICTUR to support its role in regulatory reform and in the development 
and delivery of business facilitation and promotion services.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance to strengthen 
the Commission of  Economic  Associations’ geographically focused member-based 
business organizations in the development of their action plans that support local 
economic strategies.
4.
Provision of technical advisory services, vehicles, equipment and logistical 
assistance to the PSC for Project implementation.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines), and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
 Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 below, goods may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Page  11
Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement from IAPSO
Goods may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services of the UNDP in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, excluding contracts entered into under Part B of the Project, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier  under shopping procedures 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; and 
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines), and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications.
Page  12
Services under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Commercial Practices.
Services to assist Sub-borrowers in carrying out Subprojects under Part B of the 
Project and estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Association. 
3.
Individual Consultants.
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Least-cost Selection.
Services for financial audits, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provision 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning  
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1.
The Borrower shall implement Parts A and C of the Project, and cause BM to 
implement Part B of the Project, in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver may materially and adversely affect the overall  implementation of the Project. 
PODE Steering Committee (PSC) and UASP
2.
(a)
The PSC shall consist of four representatives each from the public and 
private sectors and shall be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project.  
In addition, the PSC shall be responsible, inter alia, for:  
(i)
appointing the Management Contractor for the carrying out of Part 
A of the Project; 
Page  13
(ii)
assisting the Management Contractor in resolving ambiguities and 
uncertainties associated with initial start-up of the Grant 
support scheme;  
(iii)
providing strategic direction of the Project and ensuring that the 
patterns of support for the private sector (by region, size and 
sector) are consistent with the Project objectives;  
(iv)
authorizing, in consultations with the Association, the 
reallocation of resources across the various parts of the Project 
taking into account the patterns of demand and developmental 
impact;
(v)
reviewing and approving all matching grants requests: 
(vi)
costing over $100,000; and 
(vii)
from the Recipient firms and the Grantees that have reached a 
cumulative threshold of $100,000 on prior grant support;  
(viii)reviewing quarterly reports to ensure that the decisions and 
processes of the Management Contractor are consistent with the 
eligibility and monitoring criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Plan, and in the event of poor performance on the 
part of the Management Contractor, in consultation with the 
Association, taking appropriate remedies; 
(ix)
ensuring proper procurement, disbursement, accounting and 
financial auditing of the Project; 
(x)
revoking an approval already granted in the event that fraudulent 
information has been provided within an application;  
(xi)
reviewing appeals for a reversal of the Management Contractor’s 
decision made by any applicant and bringing these appeals to the 
attention of the Association  for their review; 
(xii)
delegating all approvals for grants below $100,000 to the 
Management Contractor; 
(xiii)following operational reviews, at intervals no shorter than six 
months, preparing proposals justifying changes to the operating 
directives of the Management Contractor for the Association’s 
consideration, and upon approval of the Association, sending 
written recommendations to the Management Contractor as to the 
ways (if any) in which the contractor should redirect its efforts; 
and  
(xiv)
carry out technical audit, every six months for the first eighteen 
months, and annually thereafter. 
(b) 
UASP shall provide adequate financial and administrative support to the  
agencies involved in the implementation of the Project and shall coordinate, and be 
responsible for,  all procurement carried out under the Project.  UASP, shall be 
headed by a Director and supported by staff needed to effectively implement the 
Project.  UASP shall: (i) provide procurement support to the PSC in the appointment of 
the Management Contractor and execute the function of Credit Administrator as 
specified in paragraph 9 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; (ii) obtain the 
procurement and disbursement plans from the implementing agencies to ensure sufficient 
funding in the Project; (iii) promptly disburse funds for eligible expenditures; (iv) 
process the request of replenishment of the special account based on the presentation 
of the required documentation under the Project; (v) review and transmit all requests 
for approval to the Association; and (vi) receive from the implementing agencies, and 
review, and transmit to the PSC, the Borrower and the Association all quarterly 
progress, audit, mid-term, and implementation completion reports.
Annual Review:
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out, in conjunction with BM, and jointly with 
the Association, a comprehensive annual project implementation review aimed at: (i) 
documenting progress toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to 
project implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, 
Page  14
targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the implementation 
of the Project as of the date of the review, and ensuring responsiveness to changes to 
effectively achieve the objectives of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall carry out 
recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31, 2002, a mid-term evaluation report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
in conjunction with BM, review with the Association, by May 31, 2002, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association views on the matter. 
5.
Implementation and eligibility criteria for Grants under Part A of the Project
The Borrower shall implement the Grants under Part A1 and A.2 of the Project in 
accordance with the operating procedures for grants described in the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
(a)
Eligibility  Criteria for Grant support under Part A.1
All majority private Mozambican firms, which fulfill the following requirements 
(the Recipient Firms), shall be eligible for  Grant support under Part A1 of the 
Project: 
(i)
The Recipient firm should have a written "competitiveness 
improvement plan," to demonstrate the planning, technical and 
financial capacity required to make good use of counseling 
services and marketing trips.
(ii)
The plan referred to in (i) above shall be realistic, and feasible 
and shall demonstrate that the Recipient firm has properly 
considered key planning issues, including inter alia,: (A) the 
reasons why one particular development direction was chosen; (B) 
the assumptions on which the direction depends; (C) the reasons 
for considering such development direction  realistic and 
achievable; (D) the steps that are required for that development; 
(E) the resources that are likely to be needed within the steps, 
and their source; (F) the length of the process; (G) the benefits 
expected; and (H) defined deliverable and monitorable targets. 
(iii)
The amount of the Grant shall not be less than $2000 and shall not 
exceed $200,000. 
(b)
Eligibility Criteria for the Grant under Part A.2 of the Project
All private or not-for-profit training firms and trainers which fulfill the following 
requirements shall be eligible to apply for Grant support for relevant training 
courses under Part A.2 of the Project: 
Page  15
(i)
Training firms and trainers are pre-qualified as registered 
training organizations, and approved  by the Technical Advisory 
Office (TAO). To pre-qualify, training firms and trainers shall 
have relevant experience in business and/or technical training, 
and shall demonstrate their level of experience to the TAO through 
presentation of resumes of trainers, list of past training 
activities, and samples of course materials.
(ii) 
A training proposal for Grant support shall, inter alia, document 
that: (i) training course shall be advertised and made publicly 
available; (ii) training course fee for participants is in line 
with current market rates; (iii) course materials and delivery 
methodology are appropriate to the target group; (iv) course 
design includes registration and feedback forms to facilitate 
monitoring and impact assessment; (v) proposed trainers have 
suitable experience in delivering the proposed course content. 
(iii)
Registered training organizations shall be allowed to submit 
single proposals for Grant support for training courses. 
(iv)
The amount of the Grant shall not exceed $200,000. 
6.
Management Contractor
The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project through a Management 
Contractor.  The Management Contractor shall be responsible for:  
(i)
advising firms in preparing programs designed to meet the 
technical capacity building for firm’s objective based on the 
specific focus of each sub-component; ensuring that services are 
geared towards what firms actually need, are focused on firms 
which can make the most effective use of the services, and are 
offered in a "private sector friendly" way; 
(ii)
based on the defined eligibility criteria for the Recipient firms 
and Grantees, approving grant applications equal to or below 
$100,000; 
(iii)
reviewing and recommending for PSC’s approval all matching grant 
requests: (i) for contracts costing over 
$100,000; (ii) from 
Recipient firms and Grantees that have reached a cumulative 
threshold of $100,000 on prior grant support under the 
Project; 
(iv)
reviewing and ensuring that the Association’s procurement rules 
have been followed, and making recommendations for approval to the 
Association for contracts costing over (i) $50,000 or more when 
the service provider is an individual consultant, or (ii) $100,000 
or more when the service provider is a consulting firm; 
(v)
ensuring prompt payments to Recipient firms and Grantees applying 
strict reimbursement standards, including a turnaround time of no 
more than 5 days; 
(vi)
ensuring that the strategic direction and necessary 
recommendations made to the PSC are consistent with Project 
objectives; 
(vii)
submitting quarterly reports pertaining to Part A of the Project, 
including all Grant approvals, to the PSC for their consideration 
at quarterly meetings; 
(viii)ensuring proper procurement, disbursement, accounting and 
financial reporting; and 
(ix)
promoting the technical learning component of the Project to 
firms, associations and sub-sectoral business groupings.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
Page  16
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
Page  17
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
1.
Annual GDP growth rate in excess of 5 percent per annum over the life of the 
Project; 
2.
at least 20 percent of participating firms were established in 1995 or later; 
3.
at least 30 percent of participating firms operate outside Maputo; 
4.
increased production, investments, sales, exports, and new jobs created within 
participating firms under the Firm Competitiveness Office (FCO) sub-component; 
5.
increase in expenditure for technical training and consulting services within 
Mozambican firms as indicated by demonstrated willingness to pay for technical and 
training services accessed under the FCO, Technical Advisory Office (TAO), sector 
specific initiatives (SSI), and Linkage Program Office (LPO);
6.
at least 30 linkages formed with joint-venture or foreign-owned firms engaged in 
exporting locally produced products or serving the local market as a result of the 
assistance extended under the LCO; 
7.
three roundtable discussions held between Government and private sector 
resulting in a friendlier business environment; 
8.
establishment of one FZ in Maputo and consensus on future strategy with respect 
to EPZs and FZs; 
9.
adequate environmental safeguards in EPZs; and 
10. 
collection rate of PFIs at least 85 percent reflecting changed repayment culture 
and subsequent increase in  profitability in participating banks. 
Page  18
