Page  1
May 29, 1998
H.E. Tomas Agosto Salomao
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 272
Maputo
Mozambique
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Enterprise Development Project
Grant Number TF 025088
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding four hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($450,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of 
Mozambique (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that IDA carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Phyllis R. Pomerantz
Country Director, Mozambique
Africa Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By: T. A. Salomao
Date: May 29, 1998
ANNEX
Page  2
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant are to prepare a new Enterprise Development Project in the territory of 
the Recipient (“Projecto O Desenvolvimento Empresarial”). The activities (the Activities) for which 
the Grant is given are as follows: (i) carrying out of sector reviews; (ii) carrying out of three-phased 
benchmark enterprise surveys; (iii) conducting case studies; and (iv) preparation of a detailed project 
component design.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the Activities.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate with 
IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or 
liabilities incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except 
those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1998. After that date, IDA 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be done according to 
IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Republic of Mozambique on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than 
nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether or not 
the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under 
any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have been 
suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship 
with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended 
by IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
