Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           4        x
Report No.P-3143-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
November 2, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =    CFAF 270
CFAF 1 million    =    US$3,700
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO     -  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Ouest
BETPA     -  Bureau d'Etudes Techniques des Projets Agricoles
CAA       -  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CIDT      -  Compagnie Ivorienne pour le Developpement des Textiles
CSSPPA    -  Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix de Produits
Agricoles
DGAI      -  Direction Generale des Activites Industrielles
DED       -  Departement d'Etudes et Developpement of BETPA
DEP       -  Direction des Etudes et de la Planification (Ministry of
Agriculture)
EECI      -  Energie Electrique de Cote d'Ivoire
OPT       -  Office de Postes et Telecommunications
SATMACI   -  Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation
Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire
SODEPALM  -  Societe pour le Developpement et l'Exploitation du
Palmier a l'huile
SOTRA     -  Societe des Transports Abidjanais
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:        US$150 million equivalent
Terms:         17 years including 4 years grace at an interest rate of
11.6 percent per annum
Loan
Description:   The loan would be in support of the Government's program of
structural adjustment as outlined in the Economic Policy
Statement of the Government to the Bank. The reforms envisaged
by the program are designed to improve the level of public
savings and the efficiency in the use of public resources;
restructure the agricultural planning system and associated
development institutions so that an expanded, well-designed
investment program yielding high returns can be mounted in
the sector; reflect the costs of providing public services to
the sector; to assure that rational prices and world market
conditions would guide decisions to invest and produce;
restructure public enterprise, management, financing and
accountability to ensure efficient market oriented opera-
tions; and restructure incentives, to promote efficient
export-oriented industrial investments. The loan would
finance imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, capital
equipment and spare parts. Counterpart funds would be used for
development-related expenditures in the central government
budget. Government has requested Bank technical assistance to
support the reforms envisaged. A separate loan for this
purpose is being proposed.
Estimated
Disbursements: The loan would be disbursed in two tranches, $100 million
immediately after effectiveness, and the remaining $50 million
after a performance review to take place early in 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE IVORY COAST
FOR STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan for the equivalent of US$150 million to the Ivory Coast for Structural
Adjustment. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four years
of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report" (1147b-IVC) was circulated
to the Executive Directors in May 1977. It was published in 1978 by the Johns
Hopkins University Press under the title "The Challenge of Success". Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects, updated by Bank missions in
each subsequent year, is reflected in the following paragraphs. Bank missions
to prepare and appraise the proposed loan visited the Ivory Coast in October
1980, and in April and June 1981. This report incorporates their findings.
In February 1981, the Executive Board of the IMF approved an Extended Fund
Facility program for the Ivory Coast. Annex I provides basic country data
and contains updated information on recent economic developments.
Introduction
3.        Since 1960, when GDP per capita was US$145, the country has experi-
enced a 7 percent per annum GDP growth rate, a pace of development that has
surpassed that of most non-oil exporting countries and which resulted in a
1980 GDP per capita of US$1200, the second highest in sub-saharan Africa.
4.        From the outset, the Government has pursued economic growth as its
primary objective. A political framework was established that promoted an
open and stable economy. Political ideology played a secondary role to
practical considerations in promoting growth and development. The open
economy proved to be a strong attraction to foreign factors of production.
As a result, there has been a massive immigration of both unskilled labor
from poor neighboring countries and skilled technicians and managers from
Europe. Today, immigrants (mainly Africans) constitute about 30 percent of
the country's population. Neighboring countries enjoy substantial benefits
from the outflow of workers' remittances from the employment that their
surplus labor force is able to find in the Ivory Coast. Close relations with
France through, inter alia, the West African Monetary Union, ensure currency
convertibility 11 and a relatively stable balance of payments.
11   The exchange rate of the CFA franc is fixed with the French franc at
50 to 1.



-2-
5.        From Independence, agriculture was identified as the key to the
country's growth potential. Tropical rainforests covered large areas in the
South, and their successful (if overly extensive) exploitation gave the
country foreign exchange resources for investment. These areas were suitable
for growing coffee, cocoa, and other crops. The agricultural potential of
the North was more limited, and it therefore was developed more slowly and
to a lesser extent. But food crops, cotton, and livestock were successfully
promoted. There was a relatively favorable ratio of cultivable land to
population so that food output expanded with the needs of a growing population,
and the competition between food and export crops was limited. Public agencies
strongly supported smallholder development, although state-owned industrial
plantations were established and prospered under sound management. SODEPALM
became a model of a semi-autonomous public agency which established palm oil
and coconut plantations and effectively processed and marketed both crops.
Underpinning this growth performance were the agricultural research institutes
which developed varieties of coffee, cocoa, oil palm, cotton and rice that
were successfully introduced. Value added in the agricultural sector grew
by an average of over 5 percent per year.
6.        In support of this agricultural development, Government developed
physical infrastructure. For example, access to transportation was assured
through a good network of feeder roads linked to a well-developed and main-
tained secondary and trunk road network. An excellent and well-managed
deepwater port was developed at Abidjan, the capital, and a second port more
recently at San Pedro in the West.
7.        Other sectors of the economy also grew rapidly.  Industry, parti-
cularly agro-industry, grew at 12 percent per year. Most investment exploited
import substitution potential such as in cotton textiles. The tertiary sector
grew rapidly based partly on demand generated by agriculture and industry, and
partly on demand resulting from government policies to provide infrastructure
to support development. A large parapublic sector emerged with enterprises in
agriculture, transportation, power, and housing among others, based both on
the need to diversify growth in areas that private enterprise was unlikely to
enter and on the need to speed up the Ivorianization of the economy.
8.        The combination of decisions to promote government investment
in both infrastructure and the parapublic sector led to a growing public
investment program. Although investment rates increased from 14 percent of
GDP in the early 1960s to well over 20 percent by the mid-1970s, large public
sector savings and increasing external borrowing were available to finance
the expanded program. Moreover, through the mid-1970s, the balance of pay-
ments position remained strong as coffee and cocoa prices continued to
increase.
9.        Under the impetus of the boom in coffee and cocoa prices in late
1976 and 1977, Government expanded the public investment program in 1978
to more than $2 billion, almost one-fourth of GDP, under the erroneous
assumption that prices of these commodities would remain high. External debt
provided 40 percent of the financing. Debt service, therefore, rose rapidly



- 3 -
and reached $700 million by the end of the 1970s. But because of both
lower-priority projects, particularly in the public enterprise sector, and
projects with very long pay-off periods (in education, for example), export
earnings did not increase commensurately, so that debt service ratios rose to
over 25 percent by the end of the decade.
10.       Coffee and cocoa export earnings declined precipitously after 1979,
*         and, by 1981, had lost over 50 percent of their peak (1977 and 1978) prices.
Furthermore, import prices continued to increase with inflation. Thus terms
of trade declined by about 35 percent from 1978 to 1981, and the balance of
payments entered a period of stringency.
11.       Public finance problems also emerged.  Savings fell sharply as
government marketing surpluses from coffee and cocoa were reduced by about
$600 million annually from 1977 and 1978 to the present. The claims of debt
service, of recurrent costs from completed projects, and of a few large cost
overruns generated srong fiscal pressures. The public enterprise sector began
to incur large deficits because of higher current costs which were not matched
by returns on investment. The recurrent costs of the education sector, which
account for 46 percent of the current budget, have become particularly burden-
some.
Weaknesses of Government Policy
12.       There are four main areas of weakness in government policy which
need to be addressed. First, the public sector expanded excessively, contri-
buting to a deterioration in public savings and rising external debt. Second,
while current expenditures increased, the main cause of the expansion was
an inflated and ill-conceived public investment program. Third, planning and
programming in the agricultural sector were inadequate, and the pipeline of
suitable projects diminished. Furthermore, distortions emerged in the price
incentive system. Finally, industrial sector policies, based on excessive
protection, had the effect of systematically increasing costs and reducing
the incentives to export.
Excessive Public Sector Expansion and Deteriorating Savings
13.       Government and public sector activities expanded rapidly in the
mid-1970s. From 1970 to 1975, public expenditure (current and capital)
increased gradually from 25 to 32 percent of GDP. By 1978, public expenditure
accounted for a full 41 percent of GDP. Current expenditure had quadrupled
while investment had increased tenfold from 1970 to 1978. This expansion
was based on the faulty hypothesis that the coffee/cocoa commodity boom of
1976-78 would be long-lived, and would thus continue to add substantially to
Government-s long-term resources.
14.       Public enterprises came to play a major role in Government s devel-
opment policy. They were used extensively by Government to meet growth
objectives, particularly in agriculture, Ivorianization, social objectives,
including regional development and housing, and the objectives of ensuring
adequate infrastructure and services in sectors such as energy and transporta-
tion to support the growth process. Their share of the public investment



- 4 -
program increased from US$150 million (or 25 percent) in 1975 to $850 million
(or 45 percent) in 1978. This rapid increase was accompanied by a sharp
deterioration in quality since projects were inadequately screened, a deterio-
ration reflected in the financial problems faced by many public enterprises in
the early 1980s. By 1980, the operating deficit of the state enterprises had
exceeded $250 million, to which an additional $175 million should be added on
account of debt service owed by state enterprises but paid by Government.
Public sector savings did not keep pace with investment.
15.       Public savings averaged 7 percent of GDP for 1971-75.  They increased
temporarily with the 1976-78 coffee/cocoa boom to 17 percent of GDP, but fell
to less than 1 percent of GDP by 1980. Thus, increased external borrowing was
required to fund the shortfall. Moreover, the problem was aggravated by the
large amounts of pro-cyclical borrowing which increased in 1976 and 1977 (a
total of $2.2 billion in commitments) as Government pursued its expanded
investment program. Total debt reached $5.5 billion at the end of 1980.
Investment Program Distortions
16.       Public investment has been a dominant policy variable in the Ivory
Coast. Starting at Independence, when public investment accounted for 12
percent of GDP, investment increased through the late 1970s when it reached
24 percent of GDP. An upward trend in investment would not by itself have
necessarily been detrimental. However, in the mid-1970s a qualitative change
occurred in the planning and programming controls on investment. An indicator
of the change is the hastily organized major departure from the 1976-80
Five-Year Plan, in contrast to the country's close adherence to the 1971-75
Plan.
Table I:  PUBLIC INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE (billions of CFAF)
1971-75                           1976-80
Planned    Actual      Actual      Planned   Actual       Actual
Expend.    Expend.    Expend.    Expend.   Expend.    Expend.
in 1970    in 1970  in current   in 1975   in 1975  in current
prices     prices      prices       prices.   prices    prices
Agriculture            86           80         108         349        419        532
of which sugar:       -            -           -           -      (251)       (311)
Industry and Energy   50            49          66         209       258         321
Transportation and
Communications         55           69          97         221       311         358
Education              18           20          30          49        123        158
Health                  9            6           8          19         19         26
Urban Development
and Housing            34           39          56          97        160        169
Other                  25           36          49          76        143        372
Total                 277          299         416       1,020     1,443       1,736



-5-
Thus, whereas the 1971-75 Plan experienced an 8 percent expenditure overrun,
the 1976-80 Plan experienced a 40 percent overrun in real terms. This excess
was all the more substantial because the 1976-80 Plan was itself quite ambi-
tious representing, in real terms, a doubling of expenditure over the 1971-75
Plan, while (actual) GDP increased only 45 percent in real terms.
17.       The increases from the first to the second Plan are attributable
to increases in agriculture (mainly sugar), transportation, education, and
"other" (mainly administrative buildings).  The common theme among these
sectors is the increasing proportion of large projects with high unit costs in
the investment program.  In agriculture, most of the increased allocation in
the investment program (CFAF 311 billion) was for six sugar complexes. The
rationale for the sugar program was to generate employment and income for
farmers in the low-income northern region. However, unit costs are over three
times world market prices for sugar. As this became apparent, the Government
cancelled plans for an additional five complexes. In education, the invest-
ment program supported several over-designed higher educational facilities,
which also absorb large amounts of the current budget. In transportation,
the main problem was the excessive scale of highway investment although,
in general, both project design and selection were adequate.
18.       By contrast, the Government supported an expansion of the cotton
program, so that cotton production increased from 10,000 tons to 150,000 tons
produced at approximately world market prices. Although questionable input
subsidies remain, the program has brought a cash crop to about 100,000 farm
families in the lower-income northern region of the country.
19.       The decline in productivity of public investment in the late 1970s
imposed substantial costs on the economy. The incremental national income
from the $8 billion spent on the public investment program from 1976-80 was
approximately 40 percent less than it would have been if earlier standards
had been maintained. The annual cost, in terms of foregone earnings, imposed
on the economy by this deterioration is equivalent to about 5 percent of
GDP levels in the early 1980s. The very slow growth of the early 1980s can
thus be seen as the result of the failure to convert the transient gains of
the coffee/cocoa boom into capital capable of sustaining growth. Had this
failure not occurred, growth in the early 1980s could have been close to the
long-term trend of 7 to 7 1/2 percent per year, despite the drastic decline in
coffee and cocoa prices.
20.       The consequences of this enlarged investment program were far-
reaching. The recourse to external debt financing--about 45 percent of the
program was debt-financed rather than the 29 percent foreseen in the Plan--
means that debt service will quickly reach $1 billion per year and absorb more
than 25 percent of export earnings for several years. Public savings will
suffer as interest (and amortization) payments preempt resources. In 1981,
for example, public savings are estimated to be only US$35 million.
21.       Towards the end of the 1970s, Government began to realize the
problems created by the expanded public investment program, and began to
change its policies. Thus, expenditure during the first three years of the



-6-
Plan period (1976-78) came to CFAF 821 billion in 1975 prices, or over 80
percent of the amount projected for five years. By contrast, expenditure in
the last two years (1979-80) came to CFAF 495 billion, or 48 percent of the
total projected amount. This was a large shift relative to GDP, since GDP was
growing rapidly during the period. With this slowdown in 1979 and 1980, the
public investment/ GDP rates declined from 23 percent in 1978 to 17 percent in
1980. However, this decrease resulted from ad hoc investment reviews under-
taken by Government. It did not represent a return to the more systematic and
rational policies of the past.
Inadequate Support for Agricultural Development
22.       Although agriculture has been the key sector in the Ivory Coast's
rapid development, over the last four or five years the sector has, with few
exceptions, lost much of its dynamism. For example, foodcrop production is
apparently stagnant requiring increasing imports to meet the country's needs.
This can be traced to growing financial problems, a decline in institutional
effectiveness, and inadequate price and other policies.
23.       A potentially important reform was announced in 1977 under which
three previously crop-specific agencies were to become responsible for regional
development in three geographic zones. While the reform was partially put
into effect in the North, it was never implemented in the Center or South.
However, the regional agencies central staff expanded while, partly because
of Government indecision, services deteriorated. Further, with increasing
fiscal problems, Government inadequately funded essential services leading
to arrears and some demoralization as staff became concerned with day-to-day
financial problems. For example, in the Central region, SATMACI, which
supplies extension services and inputs to coffee and cocoa farmers, saw its
operating budget grow from CFAF 5.7 billion in 1976 to CFAF 10 billion in
1980, while its administrative staff increased from 6 percent to 26 percent
of total staff and the average annual salary per worker increased from
CFAF 336,000 to CFAF 1,134,000. Because staff were poorly motivated, field
programs were poorly executed. In the South, SODEPALM was deprived of its
marketing function and ceased receiving adequate funding. This in turn
reduced SODEPALM's ability to run its industrial estates, pay smallholders,
and operate its industrial facilities. Thus, smallholders in the last few
years have begun to turn from oil palm to other crops. The quality of
management in the industry has severely deteriorated.
24.       Coffee and cocoa are important products for which Government pricing
policy became inadequate. Producer prices for the two crops have been equal
since 1976, although a case exists for a positive coffee/cocoa producer price
differential,    based on stronger world market prospects for coffee than for
cocoa. Further, unit production costs for coffee are higher. Yet, through
the 1970s, Government gave a substantial grant for clearing land to plant
cocoa. In the case of rice, an excessive producer price and inadequate
consumer price led to huge Government losses and distortions in produc-
tion and marketing.



- 7 -
25.       The agricultural sector remains relatively small in the public
investment program, aside from expenditures for ongoing projects in the large
sugar program. New efficient projects lately have not been prepared at an
adequate pace in the Ministry of Agriculture. The quality of recent proposals
such as the untested soya bean project indicates the need for improved project
planning, identification, preparation, and programming. This suggests the
need for fundamental changes in the Ministry of Agriculture with respect to
investment programming and policy decision-making.
Excessive and Ill-directed Protection of the Industrial Sector
26.       The manufacturing industrial sector has grown rapidly (at about
12 percent per year), and now represents 11 percent of GDP. This growth was
largely based on the expansion of import substitution industry in such fields
as cotton textiles for which the absorptive capacity of the domestic market is
limited. While policies have generally been sound, the limits of this kind of
growth are rapidly emerging. Further expansion should be based on export
markets. However, current policy penalizes exports because of relatively high
rates of effective protection in many subsectors.
27.       Other factors also limit industrial growth.  Subsidized investment
(in the form of lower-than-market interest rates and government guarantees)
discourages the use of local factors and biases growth against the smaller-
scale firms which do not have access to this subsidy. Institutional factors
have also played a role since industrial promotion activities (for example,
industrial estates) have not been very successful partly because of inappro-
priate organization. This has left secondary centers with an inadequate
industrial base to sustain growth.
28.       While the industrial sector remained a small percentage of GDP, the
consequences of such shortcomings were not serious. Two factors suggest that
a revised industrial policy is now of increasing priority. First, now that
industry has become a more significant component of GDP, policies which inhibit
growth are of substantial concern. Future growth will depend in part on the
capacity of the Ivory Coast to diversify output from the current narrow range
of products. Secondly, when substantial petroleum revenues come on stream
(see para. 30 below), they are likely to lead to greatly increased industrial
investment. This investment should develop backward linkages and lead to
self-sustaining growth, in view of the uncertainty which surrounds the dura-
tion of petroleum revenues. To help ensure this, Government needs to improve
its capacity to evaluate projects, especially those requiring guarantees or
concessions.
Prospects
29.       Two important elements stand out in a discussion of the country-s
economic prospects. First, the country still has strong agricultural growth
potential. Although diminishing returns and changes in world market condi-
tions make the choice of future investment more difficult, the country's
underlying productivity remains. The period of bold large investment projects
in agriculture may be over. What is needed is judicious planning, careful
investment preparation, and better management of the state enterprises.



- 8 -
30.       The second factor is oil.  The Ivory Coast embarked on an off-shore
oil exploration program during the mid-1970s, and recent developments have
been encouraging. Production in one field began in 1980 and will reach one
million tons in 1981 or 1982. Based on published information, production in
a second field (Espoir) is scheduled to begin in 1982 and is conservatively
expected to reach about 6 million tons per annum by 1985, with subsequent
increases to beyond 10 million tons per annum likely. The Ivory Coast, even
on the basis of conservative estimates, will be a net oil exporter before the
mid-1980s, since domestic consumption is less than 1.5 million tons per annum.
31.       There are, however, two problems associated with petroleum develop-
ment. The first is the very costly type of drilling and development required
in the Espoir field. Secondly, development to date has required a long period
of time for technical reasons, and future development is therefore difficult
to predict.
32.       The uncertainty associated with petroleum development requires
that immediate action be taken to reduce the balance of payments and fiscal
deficits to keep the short-term situation manageable. In the medium term,
improved government planning will be essential to restore growth in agricul-
ture and other sectors. These improvements will ensure that, when large
petroleum revenues become available, they are put to productive use. More
efficient use of resources to meet government objectives is all the more
important since there is a possibility that oil revenues will be available for
a relatively short period. Income -reation based on petroleum will need to
generate self-sustaining growth, including diversification from the current
high dependence on a few primary products.
33.       Despite these underlying strengths, the Ivorian development process,
which worked so well through the 1960s and most of the 1970s, is now clearly
in need of restructuring. GDP growth for 1981 has declined to about 2 per-
cent per year, substantially less than even the historical rate of population
growth. Balance of payments constraints have emerged for the first time in
almost a decade, and the public finance picture is also weak, These problems
are closely tied to the decline in coffee and cocoa prices, which in turn
generated about a 35 percent decline in the country's terms of trade, a serious
occurrence for a country whose exports are equivalent to 35 percent of GDP.
The above analysis has shown that both short-run and longer--run problems exist
in macroeconomic management, agriculture, public enterprises and industry, and
that new policies must be found and institutions reformed if the country is to
exploit its long-term growth potential.
34.       This combination of short and longer run problems needs to be
addressed in two stages. First, a short-term policy to address immediate
problems. The need is to limit expenditures, external borrowing, and public
sector activities to those which can be prudently financed and, therefore,
to become systematically more selective in identifying high priority projects
and programs. For the medium-term, a more fundamental approach is required
which will enable the country to adjust to its resource constraints, to
promote adequate development and growth and to prepare for the best possible
use of the petroleum revenues expected in the mid-1980P.



- 9 -
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT-S PROGRAM FOR REHABILITATION
AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
35.       The Government-s letter of development policy (circulated separately)
sets forth the structural adjustment program, the objectives of which are
summarized below:
a)   to provide a sound basis for development and mobilization of
resources by re-establishing internal and external financial
equilibria through a financial recovery program;
b)   to restore a system of effective economic management of public
resources, and of policy-making in support of expanded output,
exports and job creation;
c)   to rehabilitate the planning, management and incentive system
in agriculture, the main source of economic activity, so that
it again becomes the primary basis for expansion in national
output and employment;
d)   to reform the inefficient public enterprise sector so that it
can set clear objectives, and ensure efficient management and
effective monitoring of the resources at its disposal;
e)   to carry out a comprehensive reform of the system of industrial
incentives and official institutions involved in new industrial
investment with a view to promoting an expansion of exports and
production of goods competitively priced with imports;
f)   to revamp the educational system both to reduce the unsustainable
growth in costs and relate the curriculum to more realistic
national manpower planning.
36.       The Government-s program is presented below under the following
headings:
i)   Financial Recovery Program;
ii)   Structural Aujustment in the wedium term;
iii)   Agricultural Sector Reform;
iv)   Public Enterprise Reform;
v)   Industrial Sector Reform; and
vi)   Education Sector Reform.



- 10 -
Financial Recovery Program
37.       In the short run a considerable inflow of financial resources
was needed to deal with pressing balance of payments and public finance
problems. Accordingly, Government requested IMF assistance through an
Extended Fund Facility. A joint Fund/Bank mission visited Abidjan in
October/November 1980 to work out the details of a financial recovery
program and establish the basis for a Bank structural adjustment loan.
38.       The program calls for a strengthening of budgetary discipline
and a centralization of public finances. Expenditure controls are being
tightened and a program to redress arrears undertaken. An austerity budget
has been adopted for 1981 only 5 percent higher in nominal terms than the
previous year. The prices of a number of public services and consumer
goods have been increased.
39.       Specific first-year performance conditions of the Extended Fund
Facility limit new foreign borrowing with maturities of less than 12 years.
They also place restrictions on the growth in the domestic assets of the
banking system and the net claims made on it by the public sector; in the
past, public enterprises' overdrafts placed a severe strain on the banking
system. Interest rate policy will aim to make domestic financial investments
competitive with comparable investments abroad, thus helping to reduce the
large outflow of funds.
40.       Following a review in June 1981, the IMF stated that the Ivory
Coast had satisfied the EFF performance conditions. Nevertheless, because
of the continued decline in coffee and cocoa prices and a significant rise in
the cost of servicing the debt as the dollar strengthened and interest rates
remained high, adjustments were required in the performance conditions for the
balance of the first-year program. Because of these developments, the IMF has
approved a Compensatory Funding Facility of SDR 114 million.
Structural Adjustment in the Medium Term
41.       The restoration of financial equilibrium is only the first step
in a program of structural adjustment. Other measures in pursuit of the more
general aim of improving economic management and investment programming are
being implemented. These measures, which are discussed below, are principally
designed to give the Government the means to:
i)   react in a timely fashion to rapidly changing circumstances;
ii)   permit annual investment and borrowing decisions to be based on a
realistic assessment of budgetary and extra-budgetary resources;
and
iii)   ensure that all large projects have at least a 10 percent economic
rate of return and meet reasonable criteria with respect to technical
design and priority in development.
The objective, discussed in more detail in paragraph 63 below, is to restore
the non-oil growth rate to around 7 percent annually and to reduce the current
account deficit from its current level of 15 percent of GDP to about 7 percent
by 1985.



- 11 -
Institutional Changes
42.       The principal institutional measures already taken are:
i)   the establishment of an interministerial committee on Financial
Coordination and Investment Control, chaired by the Minister of
Economy and Finance and including the Secretary General of the
Presidency, the National Director of the BCEAO and the Directors
General of the CSSPPA 1/ and the CAA. 2/ The Committee will
maintain a current set of key economic and financial indicators
(including consolidated accounts of Government and the public
enterprises), prepare projections of the annual current budget
and investment program and propose corrective measures. The
Committee has already started work and is producing an impressive
set of indicators by which it is monitoring the financial recovery
program. It is expected to play a major role in defining policy
options for next year's public current and investment budgets.
ii)   The establishment of a control committee for the Government-owned
national oil company, PETROCI. The committee, in addition to
reviewing PETROCI's operations, will ensure that the surplus non-tax
revenues of PETROCI are properly integrated into the Treasury. The
committee will be chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance and
will include the Secretary General of the Presidency; and
iii)   the separation of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Plan
once again into two ministries--Economy and Finance, and Plan and
Industry--as it had been before 1977. The new Ministry of Plan is
expected to reinforce the Government's planning and programming
capabilities.
43.       One of the first tasks of the new Planning Ministry was to produce
a draft five-year plan for the period 1981-85, which will provide a compre-
hensive framework for the structural adjustment program. Within the frame-
work of this plan, the Government has begun to institute systematic planning
and programming of public investment to ensure that the actions of all minis-
tries and public agencies with regard to public investment are based on a
comprehensive assessment of available resources and development priorities
comparable to the system in effect through the mid 1970s.   A three-year
macroeconomic plan, or "schema directeur", will balance resource availability
with investment requirements, including the desirable sectoral allocation of
investment. The "schema directeur" will be prepared jointly by the Ministries
of Economy and Finance, and Plan and Industry and will be translated into a
three-year rolling public investment program ("loi-programme"), the first year
of which will be that year's public investment budget.  All public investment,
1!   CSSPPA:  Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix de Produits
Agricoles (the agricultural price stabilization fund).
2/   CAA:  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Government debt repayment agency).



- 12 -
including both government and parastatal, will be included.  If unscheduled
projects are proposed during the year, the system would require a full analy-
sis of their merits and their impact on the volume and objectives of the
"1 o-programe".
Five-Year Plan
44.       The new five-year plan aims at limiting further growth in the public
sector in favor of more rapid growth in the private sector. The keys to rapid
growth are identified as the transformation of traditional agriculture,
increasing the productivity of investment, and industrialization. The country
will maintain its liberal economic and political framework while seeking more
balanced regional growth and closer economic ties with neighboring countries.
A further objective is to increase the pace of Ivorianization. Thus the
education and training systems will be adapted to produce more technicians and
managers. The principal sectors of the plan covered in the development policy
letter are agriculture, public enterprise reform, and industry. These are
discussed below.
Table II. FIVE-YEAR PLAN GROWTH RATES
Primary sector 1/                                   7.7
of which, agriculture                            5.3
Secondary sector 2/                                4.7
of which, industry                               7.2
Tertiary sector                                    5.0
GDP (at market price)                            5.7
1/   Including petroleum.
2/   Including construction.
Agricultural Sector Reforms
45.       The Government recognizes that its program of structural adjustment
must be based primarily on agriculture, which continues to be the sector
with the most potential for the expansion of output, generation of employment
and distribution of income. The processing of agricultural products will be
an essential part of new industrial growth and of value added in the service
sectors. The Government looks to the agricultural sector, as well as to
petroleum, to provide the surpluses to finance part of overall development.
46.       Successful structural adjustment will depend on implementing new
programs, institutional reforms and policies resulting from scheduled studies,
research and field tests. Major issues need to be resolved, such as finding
alternatives to the continued expansion of coffee and cocoa in view of
world market constraints, analyzing the relationship between prices and costs
of various export and food crops as a basis for a comprehensive price and
subsidy policy, and determining the prospects and appropriate technological
packages for food crops in the North.



- 13 -
Interim Strategy
47.       In the meantime, priority should be given to maintaining and, where
markets permit, expanding output of those crops where the Ivory Coast has a
demonstrated comparative advantage, such as cocoa, coffee, palm oil, rubber
and cotton. Lack of knowledge about price/cost relationships in the agricul-
tural sector make it necessary to await the results of a comprehensive study
before undertaking a full-scale reform.  Enough, however, is known about the
deficiencies of certain programs and the inappropriateness of certain prices
and subsidies to form the basis for a credible first-year action program which
is described in paras. 49 and 50 below.
48.       The interim strategy will be based on maintaining the priority given
to the consolidation of coffee and cocoa production rather than expanding
output. A major effort will also be made to renovate the smallholder oil palm
and coconut sub-sectors. The continued expansion of the successful rubber
plantations and associated smallholder plots will be encouraged. In the North,
the largely successful cotton program will be expanded, as this is the main
cash crop of the region. The soya bean program will be halted until the
economic and technical feasibility of the program has been demonstrated.
Similarly, the heavy mechanized land clearing program will be sharply reduced.
Trials are also underway with lighter forms of mechanization. The sugar
program will be rationalized and ways will be sought to improve the program's
viability. A food crop development policy will be adopted emphasizing private
initiative in response to market conditions.
49.       The basis does not yet exist to reform the entire price and subsidy
system, but enough is known about prevailing distortions in specific prices and
subsidies to form the basis for a series of steps which have already been
taken:
(i) consumer rice prices were raised by 10 percent (from CFAF 100 to
CFAF 110 per kg) in 1981, and the producer price was cut from
CFAF 75 per kg to CFAF 60 per kg. Government has decided to base
further adjustments on a price study which will be available in the
spring of 1982;
(ii) cash subsidies for expanding cocoa plantations have been
eliminated;
(iii)  in view of the better long-term prospects for coffee than cocoa
the price will be reviewed for the next season;
(iv) as the price of oil palm bunches and copra had remained unchanged
for five years, palm bunch prices were raised by 50 percent, and
a preliminary decision taken to increase the price of copra;
(v) the subsidized sale of cotton to local textile mills has been
stopped.



- 14 -
50.       The Government plans to strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture's
capacity for carrying out long-range sectoral planning and for preparing and
implementing projects. The absence of an adequate pipeline of well-prepared
projects explains in part the low proportion of public investment allocated
to agriculture in the past. The following measures have already been taken:
(i)  a Studies and Planning Directorate has been established in the
Ministry of Agriculture. It will define the country's agricultural
strategy and long-term goals, and will carry out a continuous review
of agricultural prices, subsidies and taxation. It will be supported
by technical assistance financed under the proposed Technical
Assistance Project;
(ii) a reorganized study bureau (BETPA) 1/ will be provided with addi-
tional personnel and resources to carry out studies supervised by
the Ministry of Agriculture. Bank technical assistance has been
requested;
(iii) a reorganized Directorate of Programming, Budgeting and Management
Control will be strengthened; and
(iv) a State Secretariat for food crops has been created within the
Ministry of Agriculture. Its objective is to develop a long-term
strategy for food crops in the various regions. Government is
concerned with the rising dependence on imported foods, notably
rice and meat, and with the problem of developing cash crops in the
more disadvantaged regions. In the past, food crop production,
except for rice, received relatively little attention and was
overshadowed by export crop production. The successful development
of food crops involves departing from the single crop approach and
emphasizing overall farm development with modern inputs, improved
marketing and a unified Government support structure.
51.       In parallel with the reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture,
management studies will be carried as required out on the principal agricul-
tural agencies (PALMINDUSTRIE, CIDT, and SATMACI) 2/ as part of the reform of
the public enterprise sector discussed below. The studies will propose ways
of reducing costs, increasing operational efficiency and will establish
appropriate management information systems. PALMINDUSTRIE will be transformed
into a Government holding company, whose assets will be managed by a mixed
public/private management company. Efforts are underway to select a private
1/   Bureau d'Etudes Techniques de Projets Agricoles.
2/   PALMINDUSTRIE:  oil palm and coconut production in the South;
CIDT: Compagnie ivoirienne pour le Developpement des Textiles: cotton
and food in the North;
SATMACI: Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole
de la Cote d'Ivoire: coffee, cocoa and rice in the Center.



- 15 -
company in this field, to manage the operating company and to control market-
ing, a major objective of any reform. CIDT is regarded as relatively well
managed but lacks financial autonomy. The Government is aware of the need to
reduce CIDT management costs. Moreover, although the policy of subsidies for
fertilizer and insecticides in cotton production is defended on social grounds,
the price and subsidy study (see para. 55 below) will address the question of
whether or not the farmgate price permits the cotton farmers to do without
input subsidies altogether.
52.       SATMACI provides inputs to farmers but does not market crops.  It is
a commercial public firm concerned principally with cocoa and coffee promotion
and, in recent years, rice. Aside from the financial difficulties caused by
inadequate government funding, the agency has had a poor record in recent
years in promoting coffee and cocoa production. Its large administrative,
managerial and field staffs need to be reduced and reorganized.  The agency s
weaknesses have been partly addressed through the Bank's proposed Center-West
regional development rehabilitation project, which will cover only a small
part of the SATMACI area.
53.       In order to enable the three main agricultural development agencies
and several others to continue their assistance to smallholder production and
marketing programs, urgent action was needed to cover their large accumulated
arrears, and assure the availability of adequate financing for the balance of
1981. Consequently, financing plans have been adopted to cover these needs
through the end of the year from identified external borrowing and domestic
public resources. Actions have also been taken to cut costs: for example, the
February 1981 decision of the Council of Ministers to cut SATMACI-s 1981
budget to CFAF 8 billion from a requested CFAF 15 billion, and require the
agency to produce a short-term reorganization plan, including a staff reduc-
tion program. An in-depth study is required in order to go beyond these
limited improvements.
Prices and Subsidies
54.       In the past, agricultural prices in the Ivory Coast were fixed
roughly in relationship to world market prices but, more importantly, were
influenced by the leverage exerted by the development agencies and their
farmer constituencies. There was no comprehensive agricultural price system.
In addition to the actions already taken to diminish price distortions, the
structural adjustment program will provide support for a pricing system for
all crops and regions based on the country-s comparative advantage. The
system will be based on the principle of free market prices for food crops,
with a primary role for the private sector in furnishing transport and market-
ing services. It will have to be sufficiently sophisticated to adjust
producer prices of the main officially-supported crops in order to offset the
possible inflationary effect of a prolonged period of high oil revenues, while
maintaining the countryTs competitiveness in exporting and producing import
substitutes.



- 16 -
55.       Government has launched a major price and fiscal study of the
agricultural sector in order to provide the basis for a national price policy
for agricultural development. The study relates incentives and producer
prices to international prices and market mechanisms. It takes into account
direct assistance through extension services and subsidies, and the impact of
the fiscal system on the use of factors of production and agricultural output.
It is scheduled to be completed by the end of March 1982.
Research
56.       The Government places great stress on the role of research in
supporting its program of structural adjustment in agriculture, including
devising cost-effective technologies. The new Studies and Planning Direc-
torate of the Ministry of Agriculture will conduct a study of research goals
and methods in cooperation with the Ministry of Scientific Research. A
national program is to be devised covering food crops, cash crops and small-
holder production systems. Particular stress is to be placed on raising
productivity and overcoming the social, technical and economic constraints to
small-scale farming in the drier zones. The proposed Bank technical assistance
loan will finance consultants to assist in this effort.
Public Enterprise Reform
57.       A major cause of the public finance deficit is the growing losses of
the public enterprises and their financing requirements for ongoing projects.
Past reforms of the sector were only partially successful, despite the intro-
duction of improved cost recovery policies in, for example, EECI (electricity
company) and SOTRA (urban transport). Attempts have been made to sell certain
public enterprises to private interests especially in the secondary and
tertiary sectors. Several enterprises were sold but their financial problems
remain. The liquidation of other enterprises cannot proceed because of the
lack of funds.
58.       Government lacks a comprehensive view of the sector and is aware
that the situation urgently requires measures to improve managerial perfor-
mance, tariff structures, cost recovery and overall financial performance
and savings capacity. Accordingly, the Government invited the Bank and the
Caisse Centrale to send a mission in March 1981 to review the sector's
program, define the role of the enterprises in future development, and recom-
mend a system for financing and monitoring their activities. The report
of this mission will be made available to the Government shortly, but it is
clear that most of the basic changes in organization, function, financing
and monitoring of the public enterprises will have to await the results of
a number of management studies scheduled for completion next year. These
studies initially in the agricultural sector will be designed to evaluate,
enterprise by enterprise, reasonable objectives, resources required to achieve
those objectives, and ways of assuring the adequacy and efficient use of those
resources. Based on these studies, contractual arrangements (contract plans)
between the public enterprises and the Government would be agreed. For the
present government policy is to divest itself of ownership of public enter-
prises in the secondary and tertiary sectors where possible, and to postpone
new initiatives in the primary sector (except in a few instance where private
participation has been invited.) Price policy for a number of enterprises is
under review.



- 17 -
Industrial Sector Reforms
59.       With the present system of incentives, import substitution for the
narrow domestic market is becoming increasingly uneconomic. A deficient
system of incentives has led to inefficiencies in several branches of industry.
In order to provide the basis for renewed growth and to correct the misalloca-
tion of resources, the industrial incentive system including tariffs, import
restrictions, domestic subsidies and the Investment Code require a thorough
revamping. This should be done in a way that avoids severe dislocation of
existing industry. The objectives of the reform are:
(i) to develop a strategy for the promotion of Ivorian-manufactured
exports, including an export subsidy scheme and the reduction of
effective protection for sales on the domestic market;
(ii) to encourage industrial integration through a reduction in the
graduation of tariffs according to the degree of processing; and
(iii) to strengthen the capacity of the administration for making
economically sound resource allocation decisions.
60.       The Directorate General for Industrial Activity will carry out an
economic evaluation of all industrial projects for which Government conces-
sions are requested. The DGAI's project evaluation unit will be strengthened
through the provision of experts to be financed under the Proposed technical
assistance loan. The DGAI will also conduct a systematic review of the
investment Code and the system of taxation, protection and incentives appli-
cable to the industrial sector. The object will be to improve the incentives
for sound industrial growth and for exports. A study will be undertaken of
the impact of the proposed reforms on existing industry. Pending completion
of the study, Government will not impose new quantitative restrictions or
further escalate tariffs except for emergency situations.
Education Sector Reforms
61.       Hitherto the Government has been intent on raising the living
standards and cultural levels of the people. Over 75 percent of primary
school age population now attend primary schools. Efforts have been made to
create a class of skilled people able to work in and manage a modern economy.
Consequently, today some 15,000 students are receiving higher education. The
*         quality of education is high, but so is the cost, which accounts for 46
percent of the current budget and close to 10 percent of public investment.
The continued expansion of the system along prevailing lines adds to the
burden on public finances, and the number and types of graduates will exceed
the absorptive capacity of the economy.
62.       Reform is needed to restrain costs within the context of financial
stabilization. Steps have already been taken to reduce scholarships and cut
construction costs in higher education. Secondary school repeaters are no
longer permitted, but the capacity of the system is still under considerable



- 18 -
strain. Major changes are needed in both secondary and higher education to
steer more students towards those fields where their skills will find ready
employment. Government also plans to study vocational, technical, and agri-
cultural training reforms. A UNESCO mission made a first overall review of
the situation in February, and UNESCO plans specific subsectoral missions
during 1981. The Government has set up an Interministerial Coordinating
Committee to handle inputs from the Bank, UNESCO, UNDP and bilateral agencies
to the various aspects of the reform program.
Government Program: Concluding Remarks
63.       The Five-Year Plan has three broad targets.  They are:
(i) the desirability of restoring the non-oil growth rate to around
7 percent annually;
(ii) the necessity of raising the growth impact of the investment
program in both the short and the longer term; and
(iii) the desirability of reducing the current account deficit to a
more manageable level of about 7 percent of GDP by 1985, compared
with the 15 percent experienced in 1980. Although the policy
actions described above refer to the 1981-83 period during which
time the most essential reforms are to be set in place, the achieve-
ment of some of these objectives is only expected to materialize
over a longer period. Table III shows the changes in the main
macroparameters projected over the 1980-90 period.
Despite the deterioration in economic growth in recent years, the potential
for prolonged growth at levels above 7 percent annually remains. The agri-
cultural sector, with its wide variety of products, still offers great possi-
bilities for expansion, which in turn are likely to stimulate activity in
other sectors. One of the main objectives of the Government's program is to
raise the growth in agriculture in real terms by 5 percent annually, akin to
the rates experienced in the early 1970s. Without the program, agricultural
growth would be projected at 3.5 percent annually. Industry has been par-
ticularly hard hit during 1980-81, but its recovery over the coming three
years is likely to be speeded up by the spin-off from agriculture, the imple-
mentation of the new incentive system, and the multiplier effects of oil
activities.
64.       The speed of recovery and the ultimate attainment of a 7 percent
non-oil growth rate depend in part on the development of the oil sector.
Production has begun this year, and over the next two years is likely to
replace} oil imports on a net basis and, by 1985, Ivory Coast is expected
to have crude oil available for export. Taking this into account, GDP growth
is likely to reach 7 percent in the mid-1980s and 8 percent in the second
half of the decade. In the absence of structural adjustment the growth
rates would not have exceeded 5 and 5.5 percent, respectively. The higher
level of oil exports may also increase the country's external debt capacity.



- 19 -
65.       In 1980 the investment rate (public and private) reached an un-
tenably high 30 percent. As part of the structural adjustment program,
Government will try to reduce the rate to 27 percent of GDP by 1985 and
22 percent by 1990. Given that oil investments are expected to reach 4
percent of GDP, non-oil investment rates would therefore be in line with rates
in the mid-1970s. To achieve this lower level of investment while enhancing
its impact, Government is now approaching project selection more carefully
through the Financial Coordination and Investment Control Committee of the
Cabinet, especially in the agriculture sector where some mis:.1kes (e.g. in
sugar and rice) were most serious in the past. Bringing a ni-her degree of
scrutiny to bear on all public investments is expected to increase the effi-
ciency of investments and lead to better utilization of capital.  This is
likely to be reflected in a gradual reduction of the ratio of incremental
capital to output from around 4.5:1 in 1980 to 3.0:1 by the second half of the
1980s, compared with 5.0:1 in 1985-90 in the absence of structural adjustment.
However, it should be emphasized that this result is not automatic; in large
part the achievement of better returns on investment, in particular in agri-
culture, is likely to depend on pricing policies and the support services
provided by the state enterprises.
66.       Financing the current account balance for 1981-83 will require
a substantial increase in borrowing compared with the mid-1970s, although
this can be achieved without overstepping prudent limits. In part, financing
needs are higher because of the initial investments in the crude oil sector.
Under the terms of its EFF agreement, Ivory Coast has agreed to limit its
borrowings of less than 12 years maturity to SDR 563 million in 1981.
Because of the high level of borrowing and the resulting rise in debt service
obligations, it is important that Ivory Coast's access to capital markets
should be strengthened by support from the Fund and the Bank. The Bank and
Fund are unlikely to be able to meet more than a part of Ivory Coast-s needs
during this period but, partly because of the financial recovery and struc-
tural adjustment programs, Government expects to mobilize the balance from
other official and private sources without undue difficulty, particularly
funds required for financing oil-sector activities.
67.       Debt service payments will inevitably rise sharply from 25 percent
in 1980 to a peak of about 32 percent in 1985. Of total debt service, an
amount equivalent to about 1.7 percent of exports in 1985 and 2.5 percent in
1990 will be due from PETROCI for borrowing in connection with crude oil
development, which will not be guaranteed by Government (except for the
proposed Bank loan for exploration and production).  The debt service ratio
for non-oil borrowings would therefore reach a peak of 31 percent by 1985 and
decline to 21 percent by 1990. Therefore by 1990 it is estimated that debt
service will be around 24 percent of exports, including 4 percentage points
for oil related debt.



- 20 -
Table III PROJECTED MACROPERFORMANCE 1/
Without
Structural Adjustment
With Structural Adjustment                            Percent
Percent Share of GDP                Growth Rate           Share of GDP           Growth Rate
1980      1980       1985       1990      1980-85   1985-90       1985      1990      1980-85      1985-90
CFA
A. Gross Domestic Product          2223.5      100.0      100.0      100.0      6.8        8.0        100.0      100.0       4.9          5.5
Agriculture                      555.4       25.0       22.1       19.1      4.2        4.9         21.7       18.8       1.9          3.5
Indulstry  2/                    525.7       23.6       21.7      21.8       5.1        8.1         21.6       21.2       3.1          5.0
Services                         972.5       43.7       41.2      41.6       5.6        8.2         41.0       40.4       3.5          5.1
Petroleum                          6.5        0.3        7.3        9.9       -        22.3          7.7       12.3        -          22.3
Consumption                     1702.5       76.5       72.0      75.1       5.6        9.2         72.5       75.5       3.7          6.6
Investment                       658.9       29.6       27.1      22.3       5.0        2.9         28.2       22.4       4.0         -0.3
Exports GNIFS 1/                 725.6       32.6       33.6      33.6       7.6        8.0         33.3       34.5       5.5          6.2
Imports GNFS                     863.5       38.8       32.8      31.1       3.6        6.7         34.0       32.3       2.4          4.2
B. Memo Items
Current Account Balance
($ billions)                             -1543.7   -1995.9    -697.2                             -2200.7    -938.7
(% GDP)                                      14.6       7.2        3.8                               9.5        5.8
Consumption Growth Rate
per capita                                                                  1.1        4.7                              -0.8          2.1
ICOR                                                     4.1       3.3                               6.0        5.0
Import Elasticity                                        0.52      0.84                              0.49       0.77
ref. GDP
Debt Service Ratio                           25.1       32.3      23.5                              35.9       30.1
Debt Service on Borrowing
for Petroleum                                           1.7       2.8                               1.7        3.0
Debt Service Ratio
excluding Petroleum Debt                    25.1       30.6      20.7                              34.2       27.1
Debt Service Ratio
excluding Petroleum
Earnings and Debt
Service on Petroleum
Borrowing                                                                                          41.1       32.3
1/  The projections do not make an allowance for the short-term impact on coffee prices of the recent frost in Brazil.  Oil sectoi
foreign exchange earnings (or savings in the case of substituted imports) will reach $2.2 billion in 1985. This would permIir
the current account deficit to be reduced from 15 percent of GDP in 1980 to 7 percent in 1985 and 4.0 percent in 1990, more  :
line with the financing possibilities open to the Ivory Coast.
2/ Including public utilities and works.



- 21 -
T'ART III - THE BANK'S ROLE - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan History
68.       The Bank began project lending in the Ivory Coast in the late
1960s and has made so far 41 loans and credits. In the period through the
mid-seventies, lending was focused on project design and institution building
in both estate and smallholder agriculture and complementary infrastructure
development. The Bank's economic and sector work culminated in the 1977
Basic Report which identified the key sectors where reforms were needed to
overcome the already emerging constraints on future development.
69.       Following this period of exceptional public policy performance,
the situation changed dramatically when coffee and cocoa prices rose sharply
in 1976/77. A largely unplanned rapid increase in public investment spending
took place, financed in part by a major expansion in external borrowing.
Government became aware that the creditworthiness situation could become
untenable unless correc: ivt steps were taken.  Further, there was concern
about low returns of a number of hastily-conceived and ill-designed public
projects. The Bank was asked to do ad hoc reviews of external borrowing and
investment policies and programs between 1978 and 1980. Government displayed
an increasing responsiveness to Bank advice during this period. The total
size of the public investment program and external borrowing to finance it
were reduced to more sustainable levels. A number of lower priority high-cost
projects were removed from the program. These included a new airport for
Abidjan, an international hospital, a new university and other higher educa-
tion facilities. The expansion of the ill-conceived sugar program was
stopped. Government, at the Bank's suggestion, adopted a cautious approach
toward other large-scale agricultural development programs, such as mechanized
land clearing with heavy tractors, and soya bean production.
70.       As the dialogue became increasingly close, it also broadened
to cover a wide-range of economic policy issues. Government began to seek
Bank advice in devising a longer-term approach to the restructuring of the
economy and the institutional framework to manage the process. This was a
natural corollary to the increasing receptivity of Government to the Bank's
approach, which was taking place on the project level where the Bank, over a
number of years and operations, had built up substantial trust and confidence.
The recent highway sector loan is evidence of this new relationship as it is
based on agreement on a number of policy issues including the size and com-
position of the sector investment program, with Government agencies doing
detailed appraisal and implementation. Recently Government requested Bank
help in developing the institutional and policy mechanisms to organize
the growing petroleum sector. This would be to assure that these revenues
would be properly integrated into the rest of the economy in order to avoid
the distortions which other oil-producing countries have experienced.
71.       A structural adjustment loan is the culmination of the dialogue with
Government on the coherent development of the economy as a whole. It responds
to a Government program for reform on a wider scale, encompassing central



- 22 -
economic management of the key sectors, agriculture, industry, as well as the
future role of public enterprises in the economy.
72.       Work on the structural adjustment loan, which is complementary to
the EFF program, has been coordinated at every stage with IMF staff. More-
over, the joint efforts of the Bank and Fund are providing the basis for a
continuing flow of financial resources from foreign private banks as well as
from bilateral lenders. For example, a consortium of private banks recently
made a $275 million loan, and another similar loan is being discussed. Among
the bilateral lenders to the Government the French Caisse Centrale has strongly
supported the goals of structural adjustment in the agriculture and public
enterprise sectors. The CCCE is considering the financing of part of PALM-
INDUSTRIE's most urgently needed investments within the framework of a re-
habilitation program, provided that the management contract which will be
signed allows a real involvement of the private partner in the management of
the company. It is also considering the financing of an intermediary project
an intermediary project aimed at providing bridge financing for CIDT between
the closure of the Bank-financed cotton project (Loan 1077-IVC) and the start
of the proposed Bank-assisted Northwest project scheduled for FY84. With
respect to OPT (post and telecommunications agency), the CCCE is prepared to
finance training and organization reforms.
73.       Government has asked the Bank to provide a substantial amount
of technical assistance to ensure that it will have the necessary expertise
to carry through the structural reforms envisaged. The Bank is therefore
proposing to make a separate but parallel loan for technical assistance
(see para 85 below).
74.       The project was discussed with the Government in July 1981.  Nego-
tiations were held in Abidjan and Washington on September 21-October 2. The
Ivorian delegation was headed by Mr. Dosso, Director of the Directorate of
Investment of the Ministry of Economy and Finance.
Loan Allocation
75.       The proposed loan amount would be $150 million, of which $100
million would be made available immediately to finance a wide range of raw
materials, intermediate goods, capital goods and spare parts. A further $50
million would be released after second tranche conditions have been met (see
para 77 below). The first tranche of the loan is expected to be disbursed
promptly upon effectiveness, i.e. before the end of 1981. Loan proceeds
would represent less than 5 percent of the estimated imports in the eligible
categories in 1981 (see para. 82 below).
76.       The proposed loan would form part of a package of external balance
of payments support, mainly from the IMF and commercial banks, to cover the
expected external payments gap during the next few years. In effect, the loan
would finance part of the increase in imports which will take place as a
result of the structural adjustments. The additional resources would permit
a higher level of investment to be sustained by the economy than would other-
wise be possible. The size of the loan was determined on the basis of an
assessment of the public capital needs over the next three years, taking into
account constraints on the Bank's total lending program for the Ivory Coast.



- 23 -
Monitoring of Policy Actions
77.       The table in Annex VI summarizes the actions the Bank proposes to
monitor during supervision of the proposed SAL. From a timing viewpoint
these are divided into those actions required to have been undertaken prior to
Board presentation, and those whose implementation would be a condition of
second tranche disbursement. In the former category the principal actions
taken, which have been described in detail in previous paragraphs, may be
summarized as:
(i) implementing the financial recovery program;
(ii)  reforms in central economic management and investment programming;
(iii) actions to improve agricultural planning and project evaluation;
(iv)  actions to redirect agricultural policy and remove distortions
in the pricing system;
(v) clearing up the arrears of the regional development agencies and
beginning their restructuring;
(vi)  initial steps to reform the industrial incentive system; and
(vii) a beginning of the reform of the public enterprise sector.
78.       The main conditions of second tranche disbursement would be:
(i) satisfactory execution of the financial recovery program for all
1981 as agreed with the IMF including the undertakings concerning
the 1981 public investment program as set forth in para. 6 of the
Economic Policy Statement in the annex;
(ii)  an agreed public investment program for 1982; and
(iii) an agreed current and capital financing program for the three
regional development agencies in 1982.
79.       The monitoring program would include an investment review mission
to Abidjan in November 1981, and a mission early in 1982 to review performance
for second tranche release. In May 1982 we would expect to consult with
Government on the conclusions of the first four management studies of public
enterprises, and the outcome of the price and subsidy study, as well as
general performance under the loan. In July 1982 a special mission would
review the conclusions of the industrial incentive study. Finally, a mission
in the fall of 1982 would review the outcome of the remaining public enterprise
studies, and discuss with Government the conditions for a possible second SAL
mainly focussed on the public enterprise and industrial sectors.



- 24 -
80.       The Bank's Resident Representative in the Ivory Coast would have
responsibility for day-to-day supervision of the proposed SAL, and would
maintain the dialogue with key Government agencies on key issues which may
arise during implementation.
Disbursement and Procurement
81.       The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches, and is ex-
pected to be fully disbursed within six months of loan effectiveness. The
first tranche of S100 million would be available upon loan effectiveness. The
second tranche of $50 million would be made available as soon as Government
had satisfied the conditions described in para. 78.
82.       Procurement and disbursement procedures have been designed to
facilitate rapid drawdown of loan proceeds. The import component of the
proposed loan would finance 100% of the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject
to documentary evidence that they had been paid on or after loan signing.
Eligible imports include raw materials, intermediate goods, capital goods and
spare parts for both the public and private sectors. Luxury products and
armaments are excluded, and food and petroleum product imports may not consti-
tute more than $20 million each of the total financed under the loan.
83.       The Government of the Ivory Coast would be the Borrower.  The
CAA would be responsible for collecting appropriate supporting documentation
from commercial banks involved in international financial transactions. The
documentation supporting withdrawal applications would consist of a copy
of the invoice from the supplier, evidence of payment, and evidence of
shipment.
84.       Procurement would be limited to goods from Bank member countries,
Switzerland and Taiwan. Both private and public sector imports would be
eligible for financing. Imports are likely to be procured primarily by
private firms which would follow normal commercial practices. Public sector
imports would be in accordance with standard government procurement practices,
which ensure reasonable prices. With respect to Bank-financed procurement,
contracts would be provided to the Bank in accordance with the procurement
schedule of the Loan Agreement. All purchases exceeding $5 million would be
through international competitive bidding. Reimbursements would be made into
a Project Account to be opened with BCEAO in the name of the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA) of the Ministry of Finance. When submitting a withdrawal
application to the Bank, BCEAO would at the same time send a copy (without
supporting documents) to CAA for information. Withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account would generate a debit invoice of which copies would be sent to
CAA and BCEAO. [Under Bank Group disbursement procedures, the Bank would have
the right to request any additional information/documentation it required, in
particular, any documentation required under the procurement schedule.]



- 25 -
Proposed Technical Assistance Loan
85.       The proposed $16 million technical assistance loan would finance
15 experts each for a period of two or three years, and short-term consultants
and studies in the ministries concerned with formulating and implementing the
Government's structural adjustment program. Eleven of the experts would be in
the Ministry of Agriculture; the rest would be in the Ministries of Plan and
Industry, and Economy and Finance. The details of the proposed technical
assistance loan are set out in Report P-3144-IVC dated November 2nd, 1981 but
may be summarized as designed to:
(i) strengthen the policy and planning capacity of Government in
the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Secretariat for food crops
and Planning Department of the Ministry of Plan and Industry;
(ii) improve the methodology and procedures for identifying, designing,
appraising and monitoring feasibility studies and projects in
the Ministries of Agriculture, and Plan and Industry;
(iii) improve the capacity of the Ministries of Finance and Agriculture
to reorganize the structure and monitor the financing of public
agencies and enterprises;
(iv) develop a capability in the Ministries of Scientific Research and
Agriculture to devise a research strategy for the technical and
economic aspects of smallholder agricultural development, by crop
and by farm system;
(v) ensure that the reforms envisaged can be consolidated with the
training of Ivorian counterparts to replace expatriates in due
course; and
(vi) carry out studies such as the impact of the proposed reforms in
the industrial incentive system.
Counterpart Funds
86.       The borrower has made a commitment that the local currency counter-
part of the loan would be allocated to support SAL objectives including the
financing of key agencies, primarily in the agricultural sector, whose budgets
had been reviewed by the Bank.
Relationship between Structural Adjustment and other Bank Lending
87.       The Bank has had a long and productive involvement in project
lending in the Ivory Coast. For example, 15 loans have been made for agricul-
ture, and another three or four are under preparation, but it has proved
difficult in this and other sectors to address the full range of reforms
required in policies and institutions in the context of individual projects.
Bank projects typically embrace only a part of the sectoral activity, and



- 26 -
sometimes the institution-building and development and policy goals have not
been fully achieved. As the Government, with Bank encouragement, has moved
towards adopting more coherent sectoral approaches, the need has emerged,
primarily on issues related to agricultural development, for more inter-
ministerial coordination and the emergence of national policies pertaining to
a given sector, the most obvious example being farmgate pricing.
88.       Structural adjustment lending provides an ideal mechanism for
relating institutional, price and subsidy and investment policies in, for
example, agriculture, to the national decision-making level. Further, it
will focus the attention of the entire Government initially on agricultural
sector reforms, thus reinforcing the efforts of executing agencies to carry
out structural reforms. Once an appropriate incentive system and efficient
institutional set-up are in force, the way will be open for further Bank
lending at the sectoral level.
89.       In the key sectors of agriculture, roads, industrial finance, urban
development, petroleum and education, the goals of SAL and project lending
are mutually reenforcing. Indeed, the structural adjustment loan provides an
effective way of better relating the Bank's diverse project lending to the
overall development requirements of the Ivorian economy. In the meantime,
there will continue to be a need for further Bank project lending in pursuit,
say, of specific institution-building objectives (for example, in the petro-
leum sector), or to follow up earlier initiatives on infrastructure develop-
ment (e.g. in the urban, sewerage and water supply sectors). The main ele-
ments of the Bank's lending program are discussed in the paragraphs which
follow.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
90.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes 41 loans totalling US$709.8
million (including US$14 milliorn from the Third Window), and an IDA credit of
US$7.5 million. Of these operations fifteen have been for agriculture,
supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut development, and
rural development in the North East Savannah region. There were six road
projects and a highway sector project. The remaining 20 loans were for
education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water
supply, urbar. development, power distribution, tourism development, small- and
medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project and a regional railway
project. IFC's involvement includes participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de
Developpement Industriel amounting to US$423,500; a 10 percent equity invest-
ment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement R. Gonfreville (ERG),
the largest textile plant in the country; a US$6.4 million investment in
Societe Ivoirienne d'Engrais S.A. (Siveng) to double the company's fertilizer
plant capacity to 120,000 tons per year; and an equity investment of US$446,600
and a US$2.9 million loan for MSO, a flour milling company. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, with particular reference to those which are encountering
problems in execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.



- 27 -
91.       Bank operations in agriculture have been in support of the Govern-
ment-s policy of crop diversification and promotion of exports and giving
more emphasis to developing smallholder production. A smallholder rubber
project was approved by the Board in October 1978, and a rural development
project for the North-East in March 1980. In June 1979, the Executive
Directors approved the first Bank forestry project in the Ivory Coast which
consists of a 20,000 ha plantation program of short- and medium-rotation
hardwood species. The Bank is currently processing a Center West Project
which covers part of the area of responsibility of SATMACI. The condi-
tionality of this loan with respect to coffee and cocoa consolidation and
price policies and the restructuring of SATMACI would complement the policies
supported by the proposed SAL. In the future, the Bank is contemplating
assisting integrated rural development projects in the North and Northwest
regions which will be primarily designed to execute the integrated crop
strategy to be developed under the structural adjustment program. The Bank is
associated with the preparation of a mechanization study and pilot scheme,
carried out by the French CCCE, to determine the feasibility of introducing
light mechanized farming.
92.       Thus far the Bank has granted loans for six road projects totalling
$123.3 million, and for a highway sector project in the amount of $100 million,
which was approved in November 1980. The first project was completed in
December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal estimates. The OED
report on this project dated June 28, 1977, recommeKded inter alia, that more
emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This had been picked up in the
Third Highway Project. The Second Road Project was satisfactorily completed
in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modification and
subsequent poor work organization for the construction component. The Third
and Fourth Highway Projects, which are virtually completed, incurred substan-
tial cost overruns which the Government is covering; otherwise, execution
proceeded satisfactorily. The Fifth Highway Project, which is near comple-
tion, will contribute to a further improvement of the primary road network of
the country. A feeder roads and highway maintenance project was approved in
December 1977.
93.       The highway sector loan, approved by the Board in late 1980,
contains provisions for project identification, appraisal and monitoring
procedures which meet the objectives of the SAL. The loan supports a high
priority multi-annual sector investment program for 1981-83 consistent with
the priorities agreed to in the proposed SAL. A railway project, focusing
on the improvement of the Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou
rail line, renewal of rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was
approved in FY78. A Second Railway Project to complete the track rehabili-
tation (from Petionara to Tafire) has been appraised.
94.       In the energy sector, a First Power Project was approved in July
1980 to finance power distribution facilities in rural areas, technical
assistance and the preparation of a hydropower project which the Bank is
considering financing. The cost recovery features of the loan directly
support the purposes of the financial recovery program discussed in Part II of



- 28 -
this report. Recently, the Government has requested Bank financial assista-ice
for further exploration and development of the new off-shore petroleum field,
1'Espoir. The project is currently being appraised.
95.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy,
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises in FY76,
which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale project
approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for medium-scale
enterprises through another local development finance company and two lines of
credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the tourism sector.
96.       Future lending to industry will be designed to facilitate the pro-
vision of long-term finance for indigenous Ivorian industry, particularly
small- and medium-scale enterprises and enterprises in high-priority industrial
subsectors. Such loans are expected to contribute to the structural adjustment
program goals of revitalizing the industrial sector and increasing Ivorian
participation in industrial activities.
97.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75, covers
the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation in
Abidjan.  The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes the
second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban development
project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan-s low-income
housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976; a follow-up project
was approved in August 1981. With respect to the smaller towns, the Board
approved in FY78 a secondary centers water supply project and another project
for water supply in secondary centers and villages is being appraised.
98.       The Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts
to modernize the education system, in particular, at the primary, secondary
and vocational levels, through two education projects. A Third Education
Project covering primary teacher training, vocational training and informal
education in rural areas was approved by the Executive Directors in December
1979. Education is formally a part of the Government's structural adjustment
program and it should be noted that the Fund's EFF stressed the need for
reforms in the education sector, particularly cutting the budgetary costs
of the system, to be carried out under the Bank-UNESCO sponsored studies now
underway.
99.       The Bank Group-s lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$74.2 million annually in the 1975-79 period.  The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years.  The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1979 stood at approximately 10.4 percent (including undisbursed).  Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 10 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, 4.2 percent in 1979, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent in the
early 1980s.



- 29 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
100.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed
in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
101.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 2, 1981



-30-                                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IVORY COAST                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
LAND AKEA (THiOUSAND SQ. YH.M)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
IOTAL             322.5                                   MDST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      11.U0                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    260.0        520.0    1040.0                   794.2                   1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(kILUGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)        75.3        220.4      234.1                  707.5                    1324.1
POPULATIUN AND VIIAL STATISTICS
POPULATIUN, MlD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  3460.0         5000.0    8227.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 19.3            27.6      36.5                   27.7                      64.2
POPULATIUN PRUJECTIUNS
POPULATION IN YEAK 2000 (MILLIONS)                          15.4
SIAIIUNAKY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            45.0
YEAR STATIONARY PUPULAIION IS REACHED                     2110
PUPULAIOUN DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         10.7         15.0       25.5                   55.0                      34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       32.5         46.2       66.4                  130.7                      94.5
PUPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.6         42.9       44.4                   46.0                      40.7
15-64 ERS.                           53.6         55.0       53.6                   51.2                      55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6          2.1        2.0                    2.8                       4.0
POPULAIOUN GRUWTH RAITE (PERCENT)
TUIAL                                2.1          3.7/C       S.S/C                 2.8                       2.4
URBAN                                6.0          7.3        8.6                    5.1                       3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THUUSAND)       50.2         49.3       47.0                   46.9                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSSND)       25.9         20.8       17.6                   15.8                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          3.3       3.3                    3.2                       2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEIUKS, ANNilAL (THOUSANDS)          .            .
USERS (PERCENT UF MARRIED WOMEN) j                  ..
FOUD ANLD NUTRITION
INDEX OF i'OOD PRODUCTIUN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            99.0         97.0      103.0                   89.9                     108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENIS)                     90.0        122.0      103.0                   92.3                     107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            42.0         59.0       51.0                   52.8                      65.8
uF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         11.0         15.0       15.0                   16.1                      34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIIY RATE       41.0         32.2       25.4                   20.2                       7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.2           42.5       46.9                   50.8                      64.1
INFANT MORIALITY RAIE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..           .         ..                                             70.9
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                  .            ..      19.0                   27.4                      65.7
URBAN                                  ..          .        50.0                   74.3                      79.7
RURAL                                  .                     5.0                   12.6                      43.9
ACCESS TU EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF PUPULAIOUN)
TOTAL                                 ..          5.0       25.0                     .                       59.9
URBAN                                 *-         23.0       33.0                     *-                      75.7
RURAL                                  ..           .       22.0                     ..                      30.4
PUPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           29187.Ofe   14084.5   15220.0                  13844.1                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSUN       2920.0       2880.2/e  2368.O0e                2898.6                    1288.2
PO)PULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                              679.0        792.7         .                  1028.4                     471.2
URBAN                                 *-        492.7         .                   423.0                     558.0
RURAL                                  ..      1331.4         ..                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              .            ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN                                3.'4Ld
RURAL                                  ..          ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL
URBAN                                18t            . .d
RURAL                                 *             .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                              ..
URBAN                               0D.7fl f
RURAL                                  .            .*



- 31 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                             Page  2  of  6
IVORY COAST                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE1AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOMF            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIM _rE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAnE   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0         63.0      71.j                  73.7                    101.7
MALE                  68.0        81.0      88.                   96.8                     103.0
FEMALE               24.0         46.0      54.0                   79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         9.0       14.0                  16.2                     35.3
MALE                   4.0        14.0      21.0                  25.3                      34.9
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0        7.0                 14.8                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  13.0           7.0      11.0                   5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TRACEER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        45.0       43.0                  36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                            ..        21.0         ..                  23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         5.0/S       20.0        ..                    ..                     80.0
CONSU MPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         11.3      11.9                  32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         15.9         15.0     107.2                  69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4         4.6       40.2                   8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0         8.8        8.9                  20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       1.2                   0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1857.9      2657.7    4140.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   46.2        42.8       41.7                  36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.8         84.0      78.9                  56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.1         3.0        3.9                  17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                53.7         53.2      50.3                  37.2                     31.8
MALE                                 58.4         59.3      56.8                  47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               49.1        46.7       43.4                  27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9          0.8       0.9                   1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.87h          ..      50.0/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.67h          ..       9.07.h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5/h          ..      20.0/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     274.0                 381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      96.0                 156.2                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     487.0                 334.3                    513.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     244.0                 137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year bet-een  SOQ9  -d 1961; fo- 1970  hetween 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 19;o   d 19'9.
/c   Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than rate of natural increase;  /d 1957-58, African
population in the city of Bouake only; /e Government personnel only; /f 1956-57; 7j 1962; /h Population.
May, 1981



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEPtbIfITfON OF SOC IAL INDICATCRSt
Notes:  Althoagh. the data ar  drau-  tfnnnnne   geealy jnngeo the moa t authoettattot and reliable, itnrl  also he notenh olthey may so  be inner-
The tefve _agnop  are h   te   cm    Iane    er   f olh  sabject nnnryad (2) arnoygetlp nih  n-that higher  -trage  m-n-  than the   -retry getny
tf ohs sojettoon'tto   fetrptin  ''fatta  bnrtu  oil tornes   roophere  'Middle  In nos  enc  Afri-a aed Middle tact  it rh.-en  .e.anes of strager
sooto-latnel  aitntef.In the refernsgapdt  th   rrgnaePoPnlatinonotgitted arith-ir  --at  for ea-h itdi-ote and chan   al  chat
majorityti the   rtoanf   in a gany ha,data ir that iddi-a-o .  Sine the -nrerage at n-noonon   -nnn  rho  irat--o dep:enso nhs~ ani~abfip   t  at
and tooo-tnttfora,  -aattonsnthasotrInd .raln raa nftatdtotrntte. Inraeae    roIae~lannntghn                                                                               ef d
Totl 1- Tota  crae raocyt Itglad anaa an.d inland raers.oh-                                                     o  enrolld1inidod  hy thIrfnyrtn   ohro  hoptlha
hoi tlael-   fraso   giatnlarade   eyrrl   rPernaeol-nilhotophlyadortoe- gnral cod spe-telt-d hecpttal   dO-
ItA1   11111f      S   e   nitrsiaei-tarr   antp~ta    a-d1io  ar  ra   nldd                                                               anlhciaa   toerr.lomI  health
S---           h n      d   e  r'     I   f I                                .......dtin  n  yood  aIt  is   rng   f  edol  arltte. Pr  tat
2111f CfffItTtltP11    kftt  bare  ortnpero           rodIttlJ_og   (oa                             la    apssra    rytaeioae'asplnpf geneal hepifla,
asd lint,rPrE',naaa   aondtdo-   nlanadgohemleY and  enrol hrptal  Inel  ornltryol 51mdrlso-aett
t__tE toyAPnITAotnam-  ofoaGN          loetporpt;?i  iI    n   99tnto                                               ptiiodIep  asrenrotdmpndrtnl
dana.ll bacicaiot.ranttrspitlhBed -faaaIonhen f   odateect   rdche
Tonal Poynlatlor. ttid-Tsae (ohonnanoc f - in of~~~~~9_    JAly 1  161,  1b11  end 1919  91I1tf1111blbb  A
data                                                                                             borgefla fleaehldfrrsroor                         """ehid  -fftaf  arbor.l an   ar
nacagrennnlee; 196 . 19 1,an 19ffhd,,    .. da..shehnc-lofo  aararoa   prno
PelniniosPrnfostos                                                                          bengs rsterof prtoI  pernoon-otal arha   __                        t-l__
meters foet feidfLey  none ..... bane three Ifsoeyls ac960fo   deo70n   and                          of79  OUS Noa,G br   n   aa  delna                iey
lah   raera   ..o I.stgbed  on   f  hssnnern                y     dsi   t.                   -dtlip IIC therTIAIOI,                     de
tttosr   pooatie                p naataop IopnIat...on  then iso geebs..   etnr-niao1saoo  - total.male and tamae-lose  otal  mal  en "t                                 Io
thbbe nt   neultotedn    rat, adas   h   g   arnr  no-denraises  of ..  arl-lyaga  a  sh.......eela  prnagsofropotn
the elifoes-t  lel  ofI nofh i-an resdotcsn    ho   ahgrr   o                                        er   n   dotdfrdfeen   egh    fpieyenain   o
of arson reploren  lasoif eoantfy.-The  -ntima y ponlPams e   wasiransee                               t tee  inhasFenca- edotorerlaatmpaedlipres
-ctimAnedenoshsefse projertedifh rnoeanr  of lThe  Peynltio                                          dae  om   a-il  at  h sI0  lnese    ofirial noh,eo  cfe.                   .
mono lenol.        tedhIrh..a...nalo d1                                                      f   _1-bOtaaie   at leas d.loans yearsofeppeodprs-yfetoe   e
sielhac bee  rsado   I.  ..            ,;a.              dl.aetdl  of Ii.-. Rto iyaso   g;  resodnsaare   r   oral
Stnlti_ry lessi.ty                                                                                      esoaded.
Per an th m..a.nIonMael lar b-- Canphoned. ae  ho e fo  eftoat. I           adeallrandyrset   ftemdnytct-te
only  19ff, 1911 Trd 191  data.    ly"ll liil   le  dl                        t                   Papil-near horroto-'  bInary  nod -      oroaday-Tnad.etahdIacts enrlle  is
ypatho    geItotr -ppenreet  - ChIIldre   fl-an  f.ea),  eah ing. gs..            1                    inma. lesd neIteod ne   evl  difaded bynce    fneheoi   h
61 yearnl , cod retteed  9ff yerc and oreof as yeoreeaages o  sad-yearppn-           othespofdig_ Isoels
Innnf   1961  1911c.  t-I  -. ca   99da    Tdolsltttii  ono pyooenl)-ilitrate-dols   fa le no nCow nod-tte
Penlatone dnoe  ate. brencoe If  th    af p   aesnl  ~r-oth ojoen of totaplp,stt-                      asr.e          PIeaaa    ofelnldafyiateagd15 teensl asgOe.
year       m       200 pollet tnafo   l9et1, f96 i-, an   1911.rlll   ..t   .l --~I    -.-c..e   .b-                                                                          ,d,
_eaetr frce   at   perno    moa-  ana   ron  oss  fara  pp-                                       O9ltTI5
Toas oah   as -feethnc IAodhl  - g a  dheoh   per theosod-    f ci-pen p.pdia iretor","g...s pro ah ion ..r ropalttol- h                       1tyo   f  seossfrIs
piopa he,tn   196,  191-,aed. 1919 dana.,  nointtge                                                                     7a yehllo per al.;ao    ofpylio;eooe   anI-11
niliayrskns;snaly- f toe-pear  pneroe q.esdilsg  ta 16f  1910, aed" 191.)I                           costinouoele   hoI...d  lieeaclog.                                            .
of hira-oratno  dealca  nordm       t dns io   of  ba.a..  fam giyplotogI  penema             generly Imli  pe      Ihfadpnlrta    aldealossdI eev
all marrie,d namestinaed  age go.rapd    rA.epa-nlotidc ofp "- ,,p'dailygaoliteerompp ,dfte    sproaa
POOiS n; 1960tl   1970tIll dto he "daily" if  t. appoc t)  Leat ..rtr times al sth
latar  o   faal at   nre, edible no  ondoi  oanet-7                g.rfe    r
satoalaergeprdro  plootans   96-6,   9f.ao  1y  dta                                      oo   tahnPotef_7ssda   loamiol  csn                           ...na -onladang
eeposs, oa  ohatsn  lostool  de   ayieoolaeoaa   ed  nmeds,Rema   loR1 1renl -fmaelho   nroa  peomng  ofItos.   ..he :forc.di
ma1 sC.h aenseiae  hydPAP basdon1 d.hyslpogra  nee..d, ton soomal en-falng  spe tg    ftoa   an    oc;1ff, 190I aI99  eo
nlty  nd halthormsdeoo   eoitmtsloeprtne   oy_egtstg Idse                                               fretI)-anofrsioong  orestrPisit,  saatat                           I_o
hoaseboidI l19;6       91-i09f,ee   91    a 191971d ne. -.d    199dt.1  ~ldP-                                                                          f.1
PeGc..a. url  of  eoteisA (arom   pee  don       rsin              reoofprtys                       Prirtoaled        los   fpeeo -. tri    l.  male,d and hes.alo-ett'.Ip         s0
ont capplyof food pe  day.  e hs nappIl9,ly tfo   ndfie    aoeera-stvm    cs  orefelt  dopoe   astna,mae  cad  beaelbo.                                           ot
latllmsneo  h   rs  of total..   protei  perday and if6C g9om, ofd 197m9 a..19ff  197., taed b1979  da.  Thes.ie oehsdo   I'                                       nrpr         as
area     lerera  an averf  Ifo  ohs acrId  prpoe  by Pl CthTirTesaolero                                 -dsr  latt   - loa    of- poasa       nds      bne -     o evfer
Fareld  Pooln                                                          Ifvy  16-5,1f   nd11  dn.to settaeaordne
Per rap   Iroe_  snorrteasar.nA naAoctPoel   npl(fmo   e
rive   frm anmal  nadilyea iegont1prily;-961-1,  9ff  odr9ldeafiledf fit1fA ItfTIf
Chil  faes 1i) fostlis  lat  hor thaned) -aetuof  eaos pe  thusan  is      Peynenae o  Plnds Croonsirm  to rooti. nod.hand  I-- eoIve   by Io.ohecsl
FOODAIReURITON- yertoofdntihaggop    vnooeeotaov                                                           be dnno fohIol Po.rro. At          arroot  e. e rosranpose   Cpao.
oSe    dt  derivd too .ifeshee.              91  1910 i aed-e   1919dana                             of, h_nhld,_I.
alt.a  AlPg,                        "IIil1    I1    Il    IIl,1                                    AORlT FORCE     luf 
atbrh;lh, 191  ad  1919 dataIgb.    9165    90   .,17 t.                                      oc   trol  ;h arernted clot             -1Pe ....thevaltlunntoo
of -        ..T                                                                                          age2 per   fhane   lire. biersha .I    ...  uhetolfr..a paven     bon    ed   noalmavl   honllt  a stoica
Paersdnpp   l: fieblden  rae    otoentn   orp,:d,      no.re   htaonleate                       Inimated     bleate;  90   9 Preo   ir do  1ove d15ptralp     ahnnd  ns
eaensota  teatenpotoedhoeeln  crif,  o  motopolef0                                         lran  bie           onyIoP_oelO  na-oir  of evet p  pr tapita
fnicip or ot mpos I      roath d  nor, not N OonP_illrtonfo  ato  map hAi- f    e                   lor FI 1.a   aa oeno...  foralm f-na o5 -lolnaIat.Rres
cridde nblg  ihntambeaot  of th.an hoce   l Raqral Oma                                        tiaed 'Poyltit, -Le br fhoolote Prors  Canoes9, L.s.               peon   -dmb
do vos ban  to spend y dFArOpo-ndIodo phyo of the  IdaydI  feto..-g  Itht                     loni.hg  .pleteIf.t1'b.                                G97        Id   9dle
and  _ace-nne    If ooter-hon   sycr rn_or  the ase ofp, Inttesonlatnt                                                                 noono-mla  ole    and _l~  Porienitoos lyaneIt
lao  fasiallailoot .                                                                                                                       in~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'b."    Pt,I'~ls-li  ~       f ~IflI.b f
'oPlt o  vet  fhrIdao-Pyao  o Pt"On  b   noer ofI pontiA                   - phys-                       t e
Proolatnn fer hraloeg  eocon.    Poylothv  dividd   by na_hr of poIftoIto
maood. emal   grafathaoteoarfn7ego.       . toooa l.mrie   anlid-dae 23to EloosC.                  M..  ,



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 uf 6
IVORY COAST  -  ECONOHlC INDICATORS
Population: 8,240 (sid-1980, thousands)
GNP per capita: US$1,250 (1980)
Amount
(million US$                                                  Annual ronth rotes (%) at nontact poion sI
*  Indicator                      at torrent prine-)                        Actual                          Prelloloarn                                Project-d
1980
1975.      1976        1977       1978        1979        1980        1981       1982        1983        1984        1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Groon   Detic Product */                   10523                7.0        12.3         6.7        9.9         4.7         6.8        3.6         5.4         6.7         9.1         8.9
Agnioslt-re                               2659               15.5         3.1        -3.9        3.6         4.0       13.0         3.2         3.7         4.2         4.9         4.9
Industty                                 2488                 6.9        15.6        19.0      24.9          5.0        9.4         0.0         2.5         6.0        8.1          8.1
Services                                  5376                3.1        16.1         7.6       16.0        5.0         1.4         1.8         3.6         5.7         8.2         8.2
COnsueption                                 8055                9.6        13.3        22.5        5.5         6.1         3.2        1.6         3.9         8.1         7.6         8.0
Oruss Inn-st-et                             3120               15.4        22.4        44.1        9.1         3.6        6.5         1.2         4.6         4.4         7.8         6.4
EIpo-ts of GNFP                             3434               -6.3        12.8       -15.7       22.9        -1.7       10.9          1.2        3.6         8.9        12.2        11.3
I.p-rtn  of GNFS                           4087                -6.8        21.7        26.3      25.2          1.6         5.9       -4.4         0.02        5.8         7.6         7.3
Gott Natisc.l Savings                       1574                1.6        18.6       -97.5     -22.1       -19.8       -28.5        10.3        12.9         9.7        17.8        14.7
PRICES
GDP DOflto- (1980 * 100)                                      54.5        64.8       8-.        90.1        95.1        JO.0       16iGo.    115.6        125.1      134.9        134.4
Elchange Rste (0SI 5l                                         214.3       239.0       245.7     225.6       212.7       211.3
Share of GDP at Market Prints (%)                                  Average Annual Increase (27
(at currt-ne pricet) _/                                          (at constant pricet)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-1970    1970-1975       1975-1980       1980-1985      1985-1990
Gross D-satic Produot                                   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.0           5.5            7.4            6.8            8.0
Agric-ltue-                                           43.5    27.2    28.8    25.0    22.1    19.1               4.2           4.3            2.9            4.2            4.9
Icdutery                                              14.1    21.5    21.5    23.6    21.7    21.8              11.5          6.7            12.2            5.1            8.1
eyi..ce.                                              42.4    51.3    49.7    43.7    41.2    41.6               9.7           5.7           -1.0            5.6            8.2
Penrolens                                                                        0.3      7.3     6.9
Consorption                                              82.9    76.8    80.3    76.5    72.0    75:1              8.5           4.6            9.3            5.6            9.2
Ins..  Ov-s nlet                                         14.6    22.1    22.4    29.6    27.1    22.3             12.7           6.6           17.9            5.0            2.9
Exports of GNFS                                          37.1    38.9    38.0    32.8    33.6    33.6              5.5           8.4            1.9            7.6            8.0
Imports of  lNFS                                        34.5    37.7    40.7    38.8    32.8    31.1               6.8           9.2           10.8            3.6            6.7
Gross Notional Savings                                   10.6    17.0    11.7    14.9    19.9    20.6              7.2           7.2
As % of GSP
1960      1970       1975       1978
PUBLIC FINANCE ft
Curnene.at R n.se                                              20.0       20.1       19.8      20.6
Current Espanditor.s                                           14.6       16.1       16.4      15.2
Sarplu (+) or Deficit (-5 0.4                                              4.0        3.4      -0.4
Capital Espendit.ne                                             4.9        7.5        8.4       3.0
Foreign FiPaning                                               0.7        1.4        1.4       0.1
1960-1970      1970-1975      1975-1980      198G-1995      1985-1990
OTRI INDICATORS
GNP Grtoh Rate (R S                                       7.9            5.6            7.4            6.9            8.4
GNP pen Capits Growth Rate (.)                             -              -            2.9             2.3            3.7
Energy Conaptien Growth Rate (ES                           -              _              -            33.9            7.3
ICOR                                                      1.7            3.0            3.7            5.2            3.4
Mrginal savinge late                                      0.3            0.4           -0.9            0.3            8.3
Import Elantiity                                        0.9             1.7            1.5            0.5            0.9
8/  Al mrkat prices.
h/ Pr.enjted yenrt *t constant prints.
f/ Central govesneest only.
Sl  Costat 1980 prlne.



_34 -                                                                         AX5EX 1
Page 5 of 6
IVORY COAST - EXTERNAL TRADE
Papantiac:  8,240 (mid-1980, thousand.)
GNP per capita: US$1,250 (1980)
Annual Gr-eth R-te. (7.) at Constant 1980 Prices
A-cnt       --       - -- ----- -- ------ ------ -- ---- --- ----- --- -.- --- - ---- - - ---- ----- -- ----- - ----- - --- -- - ---- - ---- -- -- -- - ---- -- -- -- - ---- -
Indicator                                 (muillIe  USS at                           Actu l                             Prelitna.ry                                  Projected
Ourrant price)            ------------------------------------              ---------------          -----------------------------------------------
1980              1975         1976        1977         197S        1979         1980        1981         1982        1983         1904         1985
FXTERNAL TRAE0
M.......di.. Epo-tc                                5037               10.7        -6.3        -26.3        22.7         -0.9        23.5          1.2          3.7         9.5         12.5        11.4
P -rimoo                                        2508                 9.4        -4.2        -28.0        24.2         -4.6        21.8          1.1         3.4          9.4        12.0         10.8
Munof-acon                                       529                34.4       -39.1         15.9        13.3         25.0        31.8          2.0         6.0         10.0        16.0         16.0
Petroleum                                                                                                                                                              443.5       117.6         50.8
M-rohandian lap.tot                                3045                0.3        23.1         41.1        27.8         -3.7         5.9         -7.0         -1.8         5.6          7.4         7.1
Food                                             393               -19.9        18.3        77.3         21.1          0.5         9.2          2.5         3.8          4.7         6.4          6.2
Pttroleu.                                        4445              - 6.9        37 7         1171         1.9         45.9        392.4      -64 .0      -103.0           -                         2
MSuhine-y and Eqaipeect                         1552                10.9        19.5         67.4        41.1       -16.0          5.1          4.2         4.1          3.9         6.0          5.8
Others                                           655               -17.3        22.4        27.5         25.0          3.0        -1.5          1.6         4.2          7.4         8.0          8.4
PRICES
import Prtice Ind   (1979: 100)                      98               51.4        67.5        104.5        91.0        100.0        98.0         87.3        93.3        104.3       116.6        129.0
Impoat Prtice Irden (1979 . 100)                    116               70.9        77.2         86.9        90.1        100.0       116.0        124.4       133.5        144.2       155.0        166.0
Tet of Trade loden (1979 . 100)                      85               72.5        87.4        120.3       101.9        100.0        94.5         70.2        69.9         72.3        75.4         70.0
CUpniti-r of Macchandier 7r de (1)                                            A-r       .nnual IrIr-..  (.1
(at cuerr  t prcel.)                                                  (t oac.nsact 1980 ptices)
1965    1970      1975     1990    1995      1990            1965-1970       1970-1975       1975-1980       1980-1985      1985-1990
Eupnrte                                               100.0   108.0   100,0    100.0   100.0   100.0                    6.6             7.9             2.4             7.9            7.9
Prt aary                                             93.0    92.0    91.6    82.6    60.0    40.1                     5.7             6.6             1.6            7.6             6.4
Mtnufcturaa                                           7.0      8.0      8.4    17.4    14.2    17.7                  15.2            16.1           12.1            10.1            16.C
Petrolars                                              -        -                 -      25.8    42.2
i7aatW 109.0   100.0                                                      109     .0 100      .0   100.0                9.0             7.2           -0.7             2.6             6.5
P.S                                                  10.0    11.0    12.0    12.9    14.6    13.9                     7.4            0.5             8.2             4.8             5.6
teeelam                                               9.0      9.0     14.0    24.6        -        -                7.5            10.7             0.7              -               -
I.-hlary and Kqnipsct                                30.0    26.0    29.0    32.1    36.8    31.7                     6.5             5.3           -6.8             4.9             2.7
7ther.                                               51.0    54.0    46.0    40.4    48.6    54.4                    10.8           -0.1             0.6             6.1             9.4
Share of 7r-ed. 4T  6                            Share of Trade  ith                                          Share T-ade tith
Indr.ateiml Countries (1.)                       D emlapire Caotniest (15                              Capital Sarplat 011 Etportena (7.7
1965    1970    1975    1979                    1965    1970    1975        1979 21 965                            1970    1975      1979 i7
D0R0cn5109 or TR6D
Sp-rta                                 82.4    86.9    70.0    81.4                     13.0    11.1.   24.2    11.3                               0.6      0.2      0.0      2.7
Ptnry                                84.2    89.9    75.9         -                   11.0      7.9    18.2        -                            0.6       0.2      0.0       -
M -ufaonores                         50.3    38.2    26.5         -                   49.0    60.7    68.1         -                             0.0      0.0      0.0       -
larpsta                                84.7    84.0    71.8    81.3                     14.1     14.3    21.4       6.5                            0.0      0.1      1.5    11.7
2/ Prmllainay motnal.



- 35 -                                                                  ANNEX I
IVORY _OAST  -  BLNEO   aBEIS EXTE_A   AIALADDi
(millions 0S0 at coccest prices)                 EE
Pcpcliati-  8,240 (aid88E.thoatds3
GNP per capita: Us$1,250 (1980)
Actoal                                     Pcsli_iaiccp                                     Pca Jctccd
Indicator                                 1970        1975        1976         1977        1978           1979        1980             1981        1982        1983         1985        1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of C'od, and Services                        573       1507        1998         2768        3072           3330         3798           3489         3909        4750         7290       16331
cisAd      ItrladacUn.6                          497       12 39        1735        2391         7616           0719g       3037            27739        3334        30 14       $741        ,13313
Imports of goads ad seovices                        6446       1933        2188        2820         3440           3950        5373            5595         6129        7036         9352       10012
of sLtch:  OierrM. -di-r f.o.b.                   375        4012        1161        1560         0045           2203        3046            3037         3001        3653        4630         8934
Net Transfers                                         34         42         -59         -331        -417           -529           33              38          44           50          67          134
Correct Accoost Ralanee                             -38        -384        -249         -390        -785          -1149       -1544           -2068        -2176       -2235        -1996        -697
Paivate Dircct ln-oseonT                              31         81           30           0           55           119           62            269          371         408          670         249
tiLT Lam.s (net                                       50        249         277          723         976            625          404             923        1418        1651         1462         1014
OEffci=l                                            34         75          65          158         750            648          64             334          978        1306         1287        1014
Pnlvsnc                                             15        004         213          567         169            -23         340             389          440         345          175        -0.1
Other Capital                                         -4        -39         -35         -256          45            300          235             338         261         251           19         225
C      targc Lr Reserves                            -39          93         -30          -82        -159            320         639             -55         -134        -227        -302         -481
Isternstional Reserves                               -           -           -            -           -              -         -86t            -601         -667        -440          139        2091
nf vhioh: Geld
Reo.rves as months imports                            -          -            -           -            -             -         -1.9            -1.7         -1.3        -0.8          0.2         1.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Cro2ss Disbsrs:eents 5/
Officicl Gcasit                                     -          -           -            -           20             25         30               35           39          42           51          83
Coscssslsnml L=scs                                  32         34          44           44          64             27         41               71           64          42            7        0.08
DACI                                             24          23          37           24          30             1S         27               25          24           18            3          -
URA                                              -            1           2           4            1             -          -                 2            3           3           2         3.08
Other                                             8           9           6           17          33             12         14               44           O           21            2          -
N-n=comcessioa.  l Leant                            45        291         342          865         932            978        888             1401         1940        2244        2636         3503
offEiLtl Enponis Credits                          6         20           21           09          28            101         26              186         823         1179        1500        2193
77ffL                                             3         23           14          37           38            51          40               64          77           89         109          146
Other Mitilateral                                 I          13           7           11          32             28         Id               92         119          110           4           -
Priv-te                                          34        231          299         727          815           798         805             1059         923          866        1023         1164
Eateessat Debt
Dsbt Oststandieg med Di.b.rsed                    256        916         1167        1962         2667           3502       4062             4985        6403         8055       11203        17008
Of ital                                         144        378          433         612         1574          2083        1115             1449        2627         3733        6446       11439
Private                                         112        538          734        1351         1093          1419       2947              3536        3876        4321         4736        3370
-sdishnesad Debt                                  168        560          974        1666         1626           1548       1828             2727        3181         3376        3280        5341
DRbt ServLce
Total S.rein- Pnyuate                              39         132         175         288          415           568         855              928        1044         1201        1995         3741
Onmtest                                          12         56           66         104         171            250         329              309         458         567          814        1251
PaYp-sts .s 2 Experts                             6.7        8.8          8.8        10.4           14             17         23               27          27           25          27           23
Aeag.e Inrereat Rate on E.. Lams. (.T               5.9         8.0         7.5          7.7         8.6            8.1        8.5              8.2          8.2         8.2         8.2          8.1
Of tetal                                          4 9        7.3          6.9         6.6           -             _           _                _           _            _           _            _
Privet                                            7.3        8.3          7 6         81            --                        ------
Ak ..a Matrity of fee Loans (peers)                 16.5       12.6        10.6         11.2         9.8           11.5        8.0             10.7         11.1        11.1         10.3        11.5
Official                                         22.5        18.0        16.9         18.7          -              _          -                _            _
Priveto                                          12.0         8.7         9.0         9.1
A G.  of Debt Otstsadimg
tE Esd of Nost Rocent
Ytor  (1979)
Xatariti  Strtir-e Rf Dmbt Omta.-diag
Pri-lpi dtArbti  5 ypers                                                                                     S  8
frclnpel dss asthis 10 pears                                                                                  7.6
Initm  IteacEsre aS   Debt Otsiadin8
Ineareat dma sithi. fire years                                                                               26.6
Jf  Diebsr-ant dataE f   1978 ere es-tiates.                                                                                                                               West Afsite  Region
Oe1,tember 4981.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of September 30, 1981)
US$ Millions
Loan or      Fiscal                                          (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose            Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
One         Credit  Fully Disbursed                       139.8      7.5
Eighteen    Loans   Fully Disbursed
981-IVC     1974    Ivory Coast         Telecom-           17.4                  8.4
muni cat ions
1069-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast         Cocoa II           20.0                  2.9
1077-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast         Cotton             31.0                  5.2
1124-IVC    1975    Ivory Coast         Tourism             9.7                  2.6
1161-IVC    1976    Ivory Coast         Highways V         43.0                  3.4
1162-IVC    1976    CCI                 DFC                 5.6                  1.7
1177-IVC    1976    BIDI                DFC                 8.0                  3.6
1347-IVC    1977    Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.         30.0                  9.0
1348-T-IVC  1977    Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.         14.0                  4.2
1484-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Water Supply       16.0                  3.4
1490-IVC    1978    RAN                 Railway            23.0                   *
1501-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Feeder Roads       29.0                 10.1
1575-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Rubber II          20.0                  4.3
1577-IVC    1978    Ivory Coast         Abidjan
Sewerage II       33.0                 24.8
1633-IVC    1979    Ivory Coast         Rubber III          7.6                  3.9
1663-IVC    1979    Ivory Coast         CCI-Artisans       12.6                 11.0
1698-IVC    1979    Ivory Coast         Tourism II         14.2                 13.0
1735-IVC    1980    Ivory Coast         Forestry           18.0                 13.1
1777-IVC    1980    Ivory Coast         Education III    24.0                   23.1
1827-IVC    1980    Ivory Coast         Rural Dev.          9.4                  9.4
1896-IVC    1981    EECI                Power              33.0                 31.4
1914-IVC/1  1981    Ivory Coast         Highway Sector  100.0                  100.0
2048-IVC/2  1982    Ivory Coast         Urban Dev. II    51.0                   51.0
TOTAL                                        709.3      7.5       339.5
of which has been repaid               36.6       -
TOTAL now outstanding                        672.7      7.5
Amount sold                          5.1
of which has been repaid       5.1      0.0       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               672.7      7.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSED                            339.5     0.0        339.5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Approved but not yet signed.
*   US$46,682.83 undisbursed.



- 37 
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of September 30, 1981)
Us$'000
Type of
Year        Obligator                   Business          Loan    Equity    Total
1965        Banque Ivoirienne           Industrial         -        204.0      204.0
de Developpement          Development
Industriel                Bank
1978        do.                         do.                -        219.5      219.5
1977        Ets. R. Gonfreville, S.A. Textiles             -        884.7      884.7
1980        Societe Ivoirienne          Fertilizers   5,210.0  1,272.0   6,392.0
d'Engrais (SIVENG)
1980        Moulins du Sud-Ouest        Food
(MSO)                     Processing    2,900.0    406.7   3,306.7
Total gross commitments                     8,020.0  2,986.9  11,006.9
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                _____
Total commitments now
held by IFC                               8,020.0   2,986.9  11,006.9



- 38 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 981          Telecommunications Project:  US$25 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is generating the
cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out its
expanded investment program, although at a lower pace than anticipated.
Ln. No. 1069         Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
The project's physical targets have been met. The problem of quality of
cocoa has been closely followed and decisive progress in fermentation and
drying techniques of cocoa have been achieved. The financial situation of
SATMACI is unsatisfactory as a result of administrative delays in the pay-
ment of Government's contributions. Ways to improve the situation have been
recently discussed with SATMACI and the Ministry of Agriculture.
Ln. No. 1077         Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975, Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial delays in starting the feeder roads and the village water supply
programs have been made up. The development of cotton production is far
ahead of the appraisal estimates (36 percent). Improved food crop production
is, however, stagnating because of marketing problems. Disbursements are
behind schedule due to the reorganization of CIDT's accounting system and the
administration's slowness in processing the withdrawal applications. Discus-
sions between the Government and RMWA on these various issues are underway.
Ln. No. 1124         Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The loan has been fully
committed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress of
projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems and actions
being taken to remedy them. They should be read with the understanding that
they do not present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 39 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Ln. No. 1161         Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.
Ln. No. 1162         Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The loan is now fully
committed.
Ln. No. 1177         BIDI DFC Project:  US$8 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Over 80 percent of the loan amount has been committed.
LLn. No. 1347        Urban Development Project:  US$44 million.  Loans
and 1348-T           (US$30.0 million and US$14 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The execution of the urban transport components of the project has been
completed satisfactorily. The shelter component is still delayed mostly
because of slow administrative procedures in on-lending the proceeds of the
loan to the executing agencies. The matter has now been solved, contracts
for slums upgrading have been signed and the project is expected to be
completed by end 1982.
Ln. No. 1484         Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1501         Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 40 -                             ANNEX II
Page 5 o1 7
Ln. No. 1575         Second Grand Berby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 15,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Because of the establishment of a separate entity to manage the Grand Bereby
rubber plantations (SO.G.B.), the structure of the legal documents for this
project had to be amended. Execution of the project, nevertheless, proceeded
satisfactorily under Bank staff supervision.  On July 17, 1980, the new agree-
ments to substitute for the original ones were submitted for approval to the
Executive Directors (R80-213) and signed on August 6, 1980. They became effec-
tive on September 15, 1980, and US$15.7 million have been disbursed to date.
Ln. No. 1577         Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 1978:  Effectiveness Date:  Septem-
ber 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although house connections to
the sewerage system is progressing at a lower pace than anticipated. Remedial
action in this respect is being discussed with Government.
Ln. No. 1633         SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million Loan of November 30,
1978; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1663         Artisans, Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: November 28, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, although commitments and dis-
bursements are about twelve months behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1698         Second Tourism Development Project:  US$14.2 million;
Loan of June 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: May 9, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1735         Forestry Project:  US$18 million Loan of August 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1777         Third Education Project:  US$24 million Loan of
December 28, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 41-                              ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1827         North-East Savannah Rural Development Project:  US$9.4
million Loan of May 27, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1896         First Power Project:  US$33 million Loan of September 11,
1980; Effectiveness Date:  March 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1914         Highway Sector Project:  US$100.0 million Loan of
March 19, 1981; Effectiveness Date: July 31, 1981.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 2048  1/    Second Urban Development Project:  US$51.0 million Loan
of October 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
1/ Not yet effective.



- 42 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
IVORY COAST
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Request from the Minister of Finance for a Structural
Adjustment Loan, October 1980.
(b) Identification mission, October/November 1980: discussion of
investment and agricultural policy papers.
(c) Preparatory mission February/March 1981: discussion of draft
agricultural action program.
(d) Prenegotiations and appraisal mission: June 1981
(e) Completion of negotiations: October 2, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: November 30, 1981
Section 2: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed loan would be
contingent on:
(i) Satisfactory execution of the 1981 financial recovery and
public investment programs and satisfactory functioning of the
reformed system of economic management.
(ii) Government's approval of an agreed public investment program
for 1982; and
(iii) Government's approval of agreed current and capital financing
for the three regional development agencies in 1982.
(b) The local counterpart funds generated by the proposed loan would
be deposited in a special account of the Central Bank to finance
expenditures in the Borrower's development program.



- 43 -                                            ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX IV
USE OF FUND RESOURCES:  IVORY COAST
(in millions of SDRs)                                          Page 1 of 1
Gross Credit Drawings                                                     5/    Undrawn Balance
Compensatory 1/             Regular      Trust              3/                 Net      of Agreed
and Buffer        Oil    Stand-Bys       Fund       2/   Repay-      4/     Credit    Stand-By or
Stock Drawings   Facility  and EFFs   Borrowing Total  ments   Charges  Drawings            EFF 6/
1973
1974                          11.2                            11.2              0.07     11.2
1975                                                                            0.8
1976           26.0           10.4                            36.4   24.2       1.8      12.2
1977                                                                  10.0      1.4     -10.0
1978                                                 21.6     21.6   24.1       0.9      -2.5
1979                                                                           0.03
1980                                                 29.1     29.1               --      29.1
1981 (Q1-2)                            116.9          0.2    117.1              0.3     117.1        391.6
1981 (Q3-4)                              88.3  7/             88.3              3.9      38.3
1982                                   153.9  7/             153.9             24.9     153.9
1983                                    153.9  7/            153.9             44.7     153.9
1984                                                                  20.5    56.7
1985                                                                  51.8    54.0
1986                                                                  84.0    47.9
1987                                                                 117.9    37.2
1988                                                                 112.4    24.1
1989                                                                  86.7    12.9
1990                                                                  58.6      5.0
1991                                                                  23.1      1.7
1992                                                                   8.7      0.1
1/  A Compensatory Financing Facility of SDR 114 million was drawn in 1981 but is not reflected in the table
2/ Use of Fund Credit (regular stand-by drawings, EFF drawings, oil facility drawings, compensatory
facility drawings; and buffer stock drawings) plus Trust Fund borrowing.
3/ Repayments through Repurchase and Repayments of Trust Fund borrowing.
41 Interest on Credit Drawings and on Trust Fund borrowing.
5/ 1 - 2
6/  Undrawn balance of stand-by or EFF agreement with statement of remaining period of agreement.
7/ Projected.



- 44 -
ANNEX V
IVORY COAST:  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                   Page 1 of 3
ISSUES AND SCOPE
Structural Issues            Symptoms           Measures taken        Measures to        Monitorable Policy Actions    Other Bank             IMF/EFF
by Government          be taken                  and Timing               Sector &
SAL I        Subsequent      Project
SALs         Lending_               __
Macroeconomic         Deterioration in:         Financial recovery   Expanding the    Before Board    Preparation of                     EFF performance
management           - multiannual sys-    program: measures    multiannual           Presentation:   draft schema-                    conditions:
tem of program-       to raise taxes,       financial         - Reviewed spe- directeur by                     - Limit external
ming;                 improve cost reco-   program system        cific invest- 31 May at some                     borrowing;
- mobilization and    very, restrain          to relate eco-       ment debt      time as draft                   - net domestic
use of public        public expendi-        nomic develop-       and financial Loi-Programme                      credit
resources;           tures, limit           ments resource       decisions df                                  - credit to
- response to           external borrowing,  availabilities        the Committee                                    public sector.
shocks;             restructure money    and uses, to           for financial                                 Other:
Excessive size of        and credit poli-      improve medium       coordination                                   - Budgetary
public investments.   cies, encourage         term invest-         and invest-                                      expenditure
Declining Productivity public savings,         ment program-        ment control.                                    control inclu-
investment due in       reduce balance        ming.              -Reviewed steps                                    ding Civil
part to deficient       of payments gap.      Improve effec-       to exploit                  - Bank oil           Service salaries;
composition, poor                             tiveness of          oil and inte-                 exploration    - Study Df tax
project selection.    Restructure             Ministry of          grate surpluses               and produc-        and budgetary
Increase In nonviable, Ministry of             Plan and             of PETROCI                     tion loan.        system;
poorly managed public Economy, Finance         Finance unity       Control Com.                                   - Price and subsidy
enterprises.            and Plan.              to assess         - Implementation                                   actions;
Inadequate public                              major project        of the finan-                                 - Study of expanded
savings, rising        Restoration of         feasibility.         cial recovery                                   money    and
public sector           effective 3-year                           program.                                         capital markets
deficits, unsus-        investment pro-                          -Draft schema-                                  - Link  to Bank-
tainable balance       grauming.                                  Directeur to Bank                                UNESCO education
of payments gap,                                                  1982-84 Draft Loi-                                studies, Bank
excessive external    Specific actions:                           Programme 1982-84                                Agricultural
borrowing.              - Raise gasoline                          to Bank for review.          -Increase in         and Industry
tax.                                                                   electricity,       sector work.
- Raise electricity                                                     water and
rates.                                By Second Tranche                bus tariffs
- Rate increase                         release:                        are condi-
railway.                                -Satisfactory execu-           tions of
- Rate increase                           tion of the finan-            Bank projects.
water.                                   cial recovery pro-
-Raise air fares.                         gram and investment
-WRaise air fares.                      programs including
- alignment pub ic                        system of economic
enterprise                             decision-making.
salaries                             -Approve agreed 1982
investment budget
and 3-year Loi-                              Cont...
Programme.



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
tvructual .ssuns            lSympt-os          Measures taken         Measures to            Monttorable Policy Actions                   Other Bank           IMF/EFF
by Government          be oaken                       and Timing                           Sector &
SAL U               Subsequent             Froject
_______________                                             ______________                ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~SALs  Lend ng .     
Agricu2rtural Snc-  -Declining nor-                                                                                                    -Cotton areas
tor Reform         plu-es, rising                                                                                                   -Cocoa II
costs: limitn                                                                                                    -Northeast
of past compa-                                                                                                    Ssvannah
rati-e advantage.                                                                                                -Grand Bereby II
-Center West
In-estment Policy  -Relatively low                                                                                                      Project
and Institutional   level productive                                                                                                   -SAPH-Rubber
Efficienny            invasnent.                                                                                                       -Oil Palt  IV
-Deficient            -Draft Plan for the  -Reorgasi-ation         Before Board            Props-c fonc-         -Tree Crap
planning and          Ministry of Agri-    plan for the           Presentation:           tioning of              Sector
project nvalua-       culture.                Ministry of         Restructuring           new planning
tions:               -RnorganiBation          Agriculture-        Agricultore-            directorate
-Inefficient           draft plan for           New ?Basniog       -Separation of          and project
execution             PALMINDSUSTRIE/          directorate         planning direc-        evaluation
agencies;             SODEPALM.                and project         torate and             snot.
-Unsustainable        -Proposal to              evalagtion          project eva-          Implementation
financial arrears;  restructure CIDT.          unit.               Iuation Unit.          of the full ie-
high costs.          -Sharply reduced        -Reinforced          -Approoed terms         orgaizcation &
SATMACT 1981           o-nag-ont and         of roference          cost reduction
budget.                financial con-        for experts           program  for ene-
trol of ene-         under Technical    cnting agencies
outing agencies.   Assistance Loan.    for 1981.
-Covering finan-   -Submission to            (see Public Enter-
cial arrears.        Osok refinancing        prise sector,
plan to cover          below).
arrears and cur-    Review study on
rent financing        agrinsltural
of executing          research.
agencies for
19I1.
-Submission to
Bank of invest-
nent & current
budget in these
agencies for
1982.
-Paln Industries:
consult with
Bank on progran
& resources.
-Soecificn stions:
-Cocoa program to
eephbaiae renova-
tion, eliminate
subsidies on
new plantings.
Preference to
coffee output.
-No new expansion
sugar program.
-Co-fir stop in
soybean program.
-Stop subsidized
sale of cotton
to mills.
-Study economic
one of soja
seed farms.
-Confirm redu-tion
mechanised land
clearing and
cultivation.
Conditioss 2nd
tranche:
-I=plementatisn
of satisfactory
1982 financial
arrangements
for the regional
dnvelopment
agencies.
The incentive         Distortion in         Draft terms of          Carry out price   Before Board              Implementation
system                prices and            reference for           and subsidy         Presentationt           of main agreed
subsidy syot-n        the price and           study and            Spcecfic actions:   re-omesndations
which hinders         subsidy study.          implement            -Cocoa premium         of prices & sob-
expansion based    -Specific actions:    conclusifns.               dropped.              sidy study based
on comprartive        -Halt in Soybean                             -Raise price of        on conclusions
advantage for          program.                                     palm oil.             submitted to
both export           -Rise in consumer                            -N. increase in        Bank by Mar. 31,
and food crops.        price of rice,                               producer price        19B2.
cut in producer                              of rice.
Price.                                      -Maintain cotton
-Elimination of                               prices.
cocoa premium.                              -Launching price
-Stopping mecha-                              and subsidy
niaed land                                   study.
clearing.



ANNEX V
- 46                                                   Page 3 of 3
Structural Issues            Symptoms           Measures taken         Measures            Monitorable Policy Actions            Other Bank              IMF/EFF
by Government          to be taken                 and Timing                   Sector &
SAL I           Subsequent         Project
SALs            Lending
Public Enterprise    -Unresponsiveness   -Reforms of 1979            Review of sector                    -Completion fi-       -Various agri-           -Cutting
Performance            to national objec-  and 1980.                program, role in                     nancial audits        cultural project         arrears
tives; high recur- -First steps to           future develop-                      of enterprises        loans.                   & insti-
rent costs, low       institute finan-    ment and system                         within 9 months   -Lending to RAN              tuting ex-
cost recovery,        cial controls and   for financing                           of end of fis-        (Railroad)               penditure
low savings and       limit external         and monitoring.                      cal year.            -Lending to EECC          controls
need for subsi-       borrowing.                                                  Completion            (Electricity)            on Govt. &
dies.                -Divestiture of                                              management re-       -2nd urban project        transfers
-High share of         shares in some                                              form studies         -Water supply loans    to public
public investment   enterprises.                                                  for 3 regional                                 enter-
and external debt. -Attempt to               Case by case                         development                                    prises.
realign salaries.   action.                                agencies by
-Request for                                                Mar. 31, 1982
joint Bank/CCCE                                            and for SODE-
public enter-                                              SUCRE, SIVENG,
prise mission.                                             SODEFOR and
SODEPRA by
Sept. 30, 1982.
-Agreement with
Bank on objec-
tives & imple-
mentation of
reforms recom-
mended by pub-
lic enterprise
mission & above
studies includ-
system of
contractual ar-
rangements.
Industrial Sector   -Growth and exports -Draft new invest-  -Carry out                    -Launching   -Bv Dec. 31,             IDF lending             -Reference
Incentives and          limited by import   ment code.               study.                study          1982, agreement                                to World
Exports             substitution          -Support of Bank-   -Strengthen              early 1982.  on phased im-                                    Bank sec-
biased incentive      sponsored study        project ana-         -Terms of       plementation                                   toral
system.               of industrial          lysis capa-           reference      of study re-                                  work on
-Institutional         policies.              bility.               project        commendations                                 reforming
deficiencies in                                                    experts        to be avail-                                   incentive
approving large                                                    early 1981.  able by June                                     system.
projects and                                                      -Recruit        July 31, 1982.
aiding indigenous                                                  experts       -Recruitment
enterprises.                                                       for re-        of experts
inforced      under Techni-
projects       cal Assistance
unit.         Project.
Education Sector    -Rapid rise in           -Interministerial   -Action to               -No SAL con-                                                 -Reference
cost of system.       committee to           restrain costs        tions spe-                                                   to World
-Graduates increa-   coordinate Bank          and reform of         cified.                                                      Bank
singly unsuited       and other agency    curriculum.              See paras.                                                   UNESCO
to needs of           inputs.                                      41 to 43 of                                                  program
economy, including -Reduction in                                   the draft                                                    emphasis
replacing eps-       scholarships.                                Letter of                                                    on stemming
triates.             -Postponement                                 Development                                                  rise in
overdesigned                                Policy.                                                       costs &
higher education                                                                                          curriculum
institutes.                                                                                              reform. Cost
-Acceptance of                                                                                             reductions
Bank-sponsored                                                                                            as condition
UNESCO reconnais-                                                                                         of 2nd half
sance mission                                                                                             of EFF for
and detailed                                                                                              1981.
study missions.



8BR 12684
'         I              *       !      I              1               1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ;ANLARv   97Z 
IVORY COAST                                                     4
REGIONS, DEPARTMENTS AND         i                                ____
POPULATION                                                      E .~  F_ 
10                                                                      flo4    A gi-  B-d...b
r                                                        Oe~~a~tmo~taI BodB,LS
I                                                                      .  -REDOG Fse  /   ,-, 
Z) ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      K
I  ~~~4 7 00                                                 --  -<':
z@ys 'I';..S  "    X  A  t_  S                                                             1
*   /g t                    ANCRA      G u/f  o f                 Urb n Populaton D slribzaR olQ~~ /t rws Or.D
LA ,a{!  \   '  'GGrOnd 1@           P                  _ 1cto0o
DA NANE
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
UIGLO ~ ~ ~ ~   BLO<N
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NCRA ~ ~  ~      1    '   /'      .  oon   I-
A F P C Al ~ ~ %0op ~SoPSr
.00o01002000020  1'01o00200 .00 .h h Pb0  20  40  60  80  100
----------                    I               ~~~I    I
R  2e f edFepUtSofIh KiaAt w*blt  fxewr79n dISOMETERS                    .IOOINAP1TNT -   100oO



