                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR2613



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-40900)



                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.9 MILLION
                        (US$ 21 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN SUPPORT OF THE SECOND PHASE OF THE US$ 1,000
                            MILLION

 ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE (APL) PROGRAM-SERBIA
                COMPONENT- SERBIA PROJECT



                               December 28, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         (Exchange Rate Effective October 31, 2012)
                                 Currency Unit = Dinar (CSD)
                                     CSD 88.83 = US$ 1
                                      US$ 1.53 = SDR 1
                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1—December 31


                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AERS  Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia   IDA     International Development Agency
APL   Adaptable Program Lending                 ISA     International Standards on Auditing
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy               ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
CMU   Country Management Unit                   KfW     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
EAR   European Agency for Reconstruction        KPI     Key Performance Indicators
EBRD  European Bank for Reconstruction and      LAP     Land Acquisition Plan
      Development
ECSEE Energy Community of South East Europe     ME      Ministry of Energy
EIB   European Investment Bank                  NPV     Net Present Value
EC    European Community                        PAD     Project Appraisal Report
EMP   Environmental Management Plan             PIU     Project Implementation Unit
EMS   Elektro Mreza Sribje                      SDR     Special Drawing Rights
EPS   Elektro Privreda Sribje                   SEE     South East Europe
EU    European Union                            TSMO    Transmission System and Market Operator
ICB   International Competitive Bidding         WHO     World Health Organization
ICR   Implementation Completion Report          IDA     International Development Agency




                  Vice President:               Philippe H. Le Houerou
                  Acting Country Director:      Anthony A. Gaeta
                  Sector Manager:               Ranjit Lamech
                  Project Team Leader:          Salvador Rivera
                  ICR Team Leader               Enrique Crousillat
                          SERBIA
    ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE (APL) PROGRAM -
                      SERBIA PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 12
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 14
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 15
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 16
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 17
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 25
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 27
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 31
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 31
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Energy Community of
                                                                          South East Europe
                                                                          (APL) Program - Serbia
Country:                Serbia                  Project Name:
                                                                          and Montenegro
                                                                          Component - Serbia
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P088867                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40900
ICR Date:               12/28/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          SERBIA AND
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MONTENEGRO
Original Total
                        XDR 13.90M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 13.28M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 13.28M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Electric Power Company EPS
 Tranmission System and Market Operator - EMS
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/17/2004     Effectiveness:          02/06/2006           02/06/2006
                                                                                  02/24/2010
Appraisal:            04/18/2005     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  12/29/2011
Approval:             06/30/2005     Mid-term Review:        11/28/2008           12/09/2008
                                     Closing:                02/28/2010           06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory




                                                i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                                None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                           100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regional integration                                                    50                  50
Regulation and competition policy                                       50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                          Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:          Gerard A. Byam                        Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                      Hinderikus Busz
Project Team Leader:       Arturo S. Rivera                      Mohinder P. Gulati
ICR Team Leader:           Enrique O. Crousillat
ICR Primary Author:        Enrique O. Crousillat


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Within the overall ECSEE APL objectives/context, the project (ECSEE APL2-Serbia)
would provide investment support and technical assistance for Serbia, and complement
                                                   ii
the donor assistance for creation and institutional development of TSMO and the
regulatory agency -- obligations Serbia has to fulfill under Athens Memorandum.

The objective of the project is to improve electricity market access for consumers and
suppliers through increase in the quantity, quality, reliability, safety and efficiency of the
bulk power transmission system, and strengthen capacity of the institutions to participate
in the regional electricity market.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation
of the project. However, upon the recognition that the originally established PDOs lacked
specificity and were considered overly ambitiously defined, the management (Sector
Management and CMU) recommended updating the indicators and overall results
framework. Subsequently, some target dates were specified , but the indicators remained
essentially unchanged.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Market liberalization in the regional market
                                                                ECSEE
                                                                Treaty-market
                                                                access for non-
                                                                                The electricity
                                                                residential
Value                                      Those to be agreed                   market is formally
                                                                customers by
quantitative or 0%                         in final version of                  open to all large
                                                                January 2008;
Qualitative)                               the ECSEE Treaty                     (non-residential)
                                                                also,
                                                                                consumers.
                                                                residential
                                                                customers by
                                                                January 2015.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   07/01/2005           06/30/2010      12/01/2012
Comments        Whereas the market is formally open to all large consumers, these have not
(incl. %        joined the market due to a significant price difference between the regulated
achievement) price and the average market price.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                     Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Quality of supply improvement
Value                                     One year after the               Early results of four
                No baseline values were                      No formal
(quantitative                             substations are                  completed
                defined at project design                    revision
or Qualitative)                           fully                            substations indicate

                                                iii
                                            commissioned, in                     that the quality of
                                            their local service                  supply targets are
                                            area: (a) losses are                 being surpassed. In
                                            reduced by at least                  average, energy
                                            15%; (b) voltages                    losses have been
                                            are within their                     reduced by 64%,
                                            operating limits;                    energy interruptions
                                            and (c) energy                       by 87% and voltage
                                            interruptions are                    drops by 62%.
                                            reduced by at least
                                            40%
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    07/01/2005           06/30/2010      12/01/2012
Comments        Impact of the project (quality of supply) is being monitored. EPS started to
(incl. %        collect quality of supply indicators of existing substations in mid 2011. These
achievement) indicators include voltage drop, energy losses, hours of interruption.
Indicator 2 : Satisfactory completion of substations and associated transmission lines.
                                                                                 5 substations fully
                                                                                 completed. 4
                                                                 All substations
Value                                       2 substations by                     additional
                                                                 completed by
(quantitative                               year 2 and by year                   substation are
                                                                 the project
or Qualitative)                             3                                    expected by the end
                                                                 closing date
                                                                                 of 2012, and one
                                                                                 during 2013
Date achieved                               07/01/2005           06/30/2010      10/30/2012
Comments
                Target for the satisfactory completion of substations was increased to 8
(incl. %
                substations in 2009, and to 9 in 2010.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     06/13/2006            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
  2     11/20/2006            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
  3     11/08/2007            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.06
  4     03/31/2008            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               0.47
  5     03/20/2009            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               5.32
  6     11/07/2009            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               6.10
  7     06/30/2010            Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory               8.09
  8     05/19/2011            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    13.35
  9     02/17/2012            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    15.37
 10     06/26/2012            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    18.07


H. Restructuring (if any)


                                                 iv
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     (i) Extension of Closing date to
                                                     December 30, 2011, (ii)
                                                     reallocation of funds for further
                                                     support to Component 1-
 02/24/2010               S     MS            6.82   substation and related activities;
                                                     (iii) amendment of the project
                                                     description to allow for more
                                                     flexibility on the number of
                                                     future substations.
                                                     Extension of closking date to
 12/29/2011               S       S          15.20
                                                     June 30, 2012




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Serbia is part of the South East Europe (SEE) group of countries, together with Albania, Bosnia
& Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Romania. The SEE
countries acknowledge that the development of the energy sector is crucial to improve and sustain
economic development in the region, and that efforts based on isolated national markets are
neither desirable nor feasible as means to attempt closing energy sector investment gaps, demand
growth and supply imbalances. Building upon their experience to cooperate in the power sector,
in recognition of the potential gains from increased trade, and as part of a wider movement to
strengthen regional cooperation, the Governments of the SEE countries and the European
Commission signed in 2003 the “Athens Memorandum?, i.e. the Memorandum of Understanding
on the Regional Energy Market in SEE and its Integration into the European Community Internal
Energy Market, whereby they formally expressed their commitment to what is called the Energy
Community of South East Europe (ECSEE).
The key objectives of the ECSEE are:
      •       Create a stable regulatory and market framework capable of attracting investment to the
              region in power systems and gas networks;
      •       Establish integrated regional markets in SEE, closely linked to the European Union (EU)
              energy market and fully compliant with its rules;
      •       Enhance the security of energy supply of SEE and the EU by providing incentives to
              connect the Balkans to Caspian and North African gas reserves; and
      •       Improve the environmental situation in relation to energy in the region.

The Use of Adaptable Program Lending (APL) for ECSEE enables the World Bank to provide
financial support to a regional program, yet financing is tailored to the needs of individual
countries to help them meet their commitments to ECSEE. The SDR 13.9 million (US$ 21
million equivalent) IDA credit for Serbia was prepared and implemented within the context of the
second phase of the APL.1

1.1 Context at Appraisal
During the 1990s, a period characterized by arm conflicts, international sanctions and trade
restrictions stemming from the break-up of the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, Serbia faced
severely reduced output and foreign trade, high inflation, large fiscal deficits and large external
obligations. Since the political changes in 2000, Serbia begun to implement reforms and made a
remarkable progress in several areas, including a broad ranging market-oriented and regionally-
focused energy sector restructuring and electricity tariff reforms. However, by the mid 2000s the
power sector infrastructure remained old, inadequately maintained and requiring a major
rehabilitation effort. Also, while sustained tariff adjustments had reduced the quasi-fiscal deficit
and improved the sector’s financial performance, tariffs were still below the cost of supply.
Successive years of economic growth brought a recovery in power demand and the urgent need of
meeting future requirements. Major challenges faced by the power sector at the moment of
appraisal were:
          •    Implement a new legal and regulatory framework through the development of secondary
               legislation and the creation and institutional development of a regulatory agency;



1
    ECSEE APL2-Serbia



                                                    1
      •    Restructure, corporatize and commercialize the industry by the creation of an
           independent Transmission System and Market Operator (TSMO), and functional
           separation of mining (lignite for power generation), generation and distribution;
      •    Reform tariffs and improve the financial and operational efficiency of Elektro Privreda
           Sribje (EPS) and its successors to restore the creditworthiness of sector entities;
      •    Rehabilitate the old and deteriorated assets of the network, and augment the network;
      •    Upgrade and modernize transmission, distribution, dispatch and telecommunications
           systems to effectively participate in the regional electricity market;
      •    Improve end-use efficiency and promote rational use of electricity; and
      •    Encourage commercial development of renewable resources.
Rationale for Bank assistance; The World Bank’s experience in supporting countries of the SEE
in rehabilitating and restructuring their power sectors since the early 1990s, as well its active role
in the development of the ECSEE, placed the Bank in a strong position to provide regional
lending. The ECSEE APL2-Serbia, that finances the necessary infrastructure to improve market
access to customers –through the rehabilitation and upgrading mentioned above– was aimed at
complementing donors assistance in the creation and institutional development of a TSMO and
the new Regulatory Agency (obligations Serbia had to fulfill under Athens Memorandum), and
strengthening the transmission network to link Serbia to the regional electricity market. The
project’s financing of necessary infrastructure complements other donors’ assistance in
strengthening the power sector institutions, infrastructure and operating efficiency. 2
The energy sector restructuring supported by the APL and its subcomponent APL2 relates to two
of the three goals of the 2005 CAS for Serbia: creating smaller, more sustainable, more efficient
public sector, and creating a larger, more dynamic, private sector.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
Within the overall ECSEE APL context, the project (ECSEE APL2-Serbia) was aimed at
providing investment support for Serbia to improve electricity market access for consumers and
suppliers through an increase in the quantity, quality, reliability, safety and efficiency of the bulk
power transmission system.
The ECSEE APL program is to be considered successful if the countries in the region achieve
their commitments under the Athens process and are able to: (a) develop a functioning market
including the agreed market liberalization targets; and (b) integrate it into the internal electricity
market of the European Union. To accomplish this, the countries have to continue ongoing
restructuring and reform measures, build institutions and improve their power systems including
interconnections so that regional trade can increase.
The key outcome indicator used to assess the APL2-Serbia, as approved at appraisal, was the
following:
     •    Satisfactory implementation of commercial agreements between the TSMO, distribution
          companies and the eligible customers. 3


2
  The EBRD, KfW, EIB and Government of Switzerland provided assistance in the rehabilitation and environmental
improvement of mines (lignite for power generation) and generating stations. SIDA co-financed new financial
management systems in EPS. EAR funded technical assistance for training of the transmission and system dispatch
staff, as well as co-financed with KfW an energy efficiency program.
3
  The umbrella ECSEE APL program’s outcome indicator is that electricity markets in SEE are liberalized according to
the ECSEE Treaty and a regional electricity market is functioning. This would be measured by the freedom of an
increasing number of electricity consumers to choose their electricity suppliers.


                                                         2
Intermediate results indicators were:
     •    Satisfactory completion of substations and the associated transmission lines; and
     •    One year after the substations are fully operational, in their local service area: (a) losses
          are reduced at by least 15%, (b) voltages are within their operating limits, and (c) energy
          interruptions are reduced by at least 40%.
That is, the PDO as approved included one single DO that was associated to the sector reform and
regional integration agenda, while project components (section 2.5) focused entirely on the
strengthening of infrastructure and did not include any policy reform component.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The Project Development Objectives remained unchanged throughout the implementation of the
project nor was there any re-allocation of resources. However, upon the recognition that the
originally established PDOs lacked specificity and were considered overly ambitiously defined,
the management (Sector Management and CMU) recommended updating the indicators and
overall results framework. Subsequently, some target dates were specified 4, but the indicators
remained essentially unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The PAD did not identify explicitly a primary target group as such. The project is aimed at
benefiting a broad range of power sector players through its support to the sector’s restructuring
and liberalization, providing access to an open and competitive electricity market to both
consumers and suppliers. Also, the construction and rehabilitation of substations and associated
transmission lines will benefit directly electricity users of the corresponding areas through an
increase in the quantity, quality, reliability, safety and efficiency of the electricity service.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Eligible ECSEE APL Project Components: Priority investments and technical assistance so
that ECSEE Regional Members can effectively participate in the regional electricity market. The
program proposed as a one billion US$ program in five phases (APL1 through APL5) for the
original SEE countries plus Turkey and Kosovo.
ECSEE APL-2 (Serbia) Project consisted of two components:
Component 1: 110kV Substations and Related Activities
Construction of five new 110kV substations in two phases: 5
     •    Component 1-A: Two new 110kV substations through the financing of goods and
          consultancy services.
     •    Component 1-B: In a second phase, three new 110kV substations plus additional related
          investments and/or services.
Component 2: 110kV Interconnecting Transmission Lines and Related Activities




4
  ISR #6 (Nov. 2009) incorporated target dates for the liberalization of the electricity market (a PDO indicator) as well
as for the commissioning of substations (intermediate indicators).
5
  A third phase was added during implementation as the number of substations was increased.



                                                            3
Construction of new 110kV interconnecting transmission lines for the substations selected under
Component 1. The construction of these transmission lines will be carried also in two phases in
coordination of the phases of Component 1.
    •    Component 2-A: Financing of civil and installation works necessary for the construction
         of the two lines for the substations under Component 1-A, plus consultancy services.
    •    Component 2-B: Financing of civil and installation works for the construction of the lines
         for the substations under Component 1-B, plus any additional related investments and/or
         services

1.6 Revised Components
While the nature of the project components remained unchanged throughout its implementation
and there was no re-allocation of resources, the components were modified in scale as the number
of new 110kV substations was increased from five to ten –plus the rehabilitation of an eleventh
substation– in three phases. Also, World Bank financing of Component 2 (110kV interconnecting
transmission lines) was limited the civil and installation works of phase one only, as the
responsible agency EMS opted to finance fully Phases II and III of Component 2.

1.7 Other significant changes
The project’s closing date was adjusted twice. The original closing date was February 28, 2010.
It was initially extended to December 31, 2011 and in December 29, 2011 it was extended to June
30, 2012. Both extensions were motivated mainly by delays associated to procurement problems,
as there was need of re-bidding important contracts due to the forced withdrawal of a winning
bidder (first extension) and the failure of a supplier to deliver transformers equipment (second
extension).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project was prepared within the context of the ECSEE regional program using an adaptable
program lending (APL) instrument. APLs in support of the regional program were provided in a
horizontal manner –to support each of the member countries– and vertically, i.e. each member
country could receive support from more than one APL installment over the program period. The
APL instrument was chosen, as opposed to a free standing investment project, because it enables
the Bank to provide support in a flexible manner, when individual countries and/or projects were
ready to receive Bank support. 6 The approved size of the regional APL lending facility was
US$1,000 million, of which US$ 21 million equivalent was allocated to Serbia under APL2.
Project design was supported by a strategy for Bank assistance for regional energy trade that
highlighted that achieving a well-functioning power market would require significant investments
in power generation, transmission and distribution. Also, by project effectiveness it was
confirmed that Serbia qualified for Bank support under the regional APL program, as it had met
ECSEE’s basic entry conditions as defined in the Athens Memorandum: that an electricity sector
regulator and a transmission system operator have been established and are operational.



6
  Two sets of triggers apply under the APL. Policy triggers determine the eligibility of an individual country and
project triggers determine when an individual investment is eligible to receive Bank funds.


                                                          4
The components of the Serbia APL2 were selected in a manner consistent with the regional
program and the key objectives of the ECSEE, and in close consultation with other donors.
Hence, the choice of supporting the construction of a set of new 110kV substations and associated
110kV transmission lines –a particularly weak segment of Serbia’s power system– was an
adequate complement to other donors assistance that focused on the creation and institutional
development of the TSMO and the new Regulatory Agency, and strengthening the transmission
network to link Serbia to the regional electricity market.
EPS performed a series of development and planning studies to determine the priority
investments necessary to expand its power networks, improve their performance and meet the
growing demand of electricity. Based on technical and economic analyses, EPS studies
recommended a set of investments that were included in its Work and Development Plan for
2005-2010. Among others, it recommended the construction of new 110kV transformer
substations in Arilje, Vranje 2, Jagodina 3, Macvanska Mitrovica, Nis 8 and Mosna substations
and their associated interconnecting transmission lines. Two of these substations, Arilje and
Macvanska Mitrovica, were selected for the project’s Phase I. Decisions on additional
investments to be financed through the Credit in subsequent phases –which, in fact, included the
other substations mentioned above– were based on an agreed criteria that considered the
following: (a) confirmation that the proposed investments were technically and economically
viable and part of EPS and EMS medium term investment plans; and (b) presentation of
satisfactory Environmental Management and Land Acquisition Plans, if safeguard policies are
triggered by the proposed investments.
The project was designed taking into account lessons learned in Europe and other regions in
power sector reform programs and the development of power markets. Key lessons incorporated
into the project design were: (a) the need to establish an independent TSMO to operate and
administer electricity markets; (b) confirmation of government’s political commitment and
adequate financial support for a successful reform program; and (c) the convenience of proven
and streamlined approaches emphasizing turnkey contracting. Project risks were assessed at
appraisal and incorporated into its design.
However, a shortcoming in the project’s design was its weak link and lack of balance between its
sector policy objectives and its infrastructure components. Whereas the proposal to build a set of
new 110 kV substations and associated transmission lines had the potential to contribute
significantly towards the provision of a better electricity service and, hence, provide economic
benefits inherent to a better service and, also, facilitate the access of suppliers and consumers to
an electricity market, the reform objective of the project was not supported by a policy
component. The project did not include any technical assistance to address sector reform
challenges nor any policy agreements, to tackle these issues once the project had been declared
effective. This implied that the Bank’s leverage in addressing reform issues was strongly
weakened after the project was declared effective. This shortcoming was aggravated by a
relatively weak design of PDO indicators that lacked specificity and did not establish a link
between the project’s reform and infrastructure objectives (see section 2.3).

2.2 Implementation
Component 1 of the Serbia APL2 was implemented by Elektro Privreda Srbije (EPS) and
component 2 by Elektro Mreza Sribje (EMS), the transmission system operators established upon
the unbundling of the power sector. In both cases, general management and support functions
were assigned to their head office in Belgrade. Project Implementation Units (PIU) were
designated for the implementation of the project. The main function of the PIUs was to coordinate
with other corporate departments the effective implementation of procurement, contracting,



                                                 5
contract administration and disbursements, financial management and accounting reporting. PIUs
were adequately staffed.
Overall, the project was implemented in a satisfactory manner in most of its infrastructure
components. Factors contributing to successful implementation included:
      •    The strength of the two PIUs, supported by the different departments of their respective
           corporations;
      •    The engagement of an Implementation Supervision Consultant (IDA financed) during
           Phase I, with the following objectives: (a) providing monitoring and support to EPS and
           EMS; (b) ensuring that the project’s activities are well coordinated between EPS and
           EMS; and (c) ensuring that the equipment and civil works are in compliance with the
           project design and schedule.
      •    The use of proven designs and streamlined contracting approaches;
      •    Continuous supervision of the World Bank, including the support of several team
           members in the field (particularly in safeguards and fiduciary issues); and
      •    A flexible procurement process that incorporated the lessons learned throughout the
           implementation period and was able to react to the changing conditions of the suppliers
           market.
However, the project had considerable implementation delays that motivated two extensions of
the closing date and a 50% extension in the project’s implementation period (from 4 years and 8
months to 7 years). Main causes for delays were:
       •    A slow start caused by the involvement of newly created institutions (EMS) and a weak
            coordination between the Ministry of Energy (ME) and the implementing agencies.
            Consequently, the Credit was declared effective seven months after Board approval;
       •    Procurement problems, mostly out of the control of any of the players, required the
            need to re-bid two important contracts in Phases II and III of the project; and
       •    An impasse in the environmental licensing for the Mosna substation, caused by gaps in
            the coordination of EMS and other public entities upon changes in forestry legislation.
            This problem has yet to be solved.
On the reform area, considerable progress has been achieved in the unbundling of the sector
structure, establishing a separate transmission company (EMS) as well as an independent sector
regulator (Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia-AERS), both conditions for project
effectiveness. Subsequent legislation has opened the market to all customers, except residential,
and regulated electricity tariffs have increased gradually (from an average tariff of 4.3
UScents/Kwh at appraisal to 7.6 UScents/Kwh) with view to move towards full cost recovery
levels. However, the benefits of a competitive market have yet be realized. In spite of having the
opportunity to access the competitive electricity market large consumers have opted to remain
within the regulated component of the sector that still offers lower (below cost) prices.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
A shortcoming of the project was its relatively weak design of PDO, and intermediate results
indicators, that did not establish a clear link between the project’s reform and infrastructure
objectives, nor acknowledged the development contribution of an improved electricity service.7


7
  The Results Framework includes one single outcome indicator for the PDO: the satisfactory implementation of
commercial agreements between the TSMO, distribution companies and the eligible customers. That is, a policy reform
indicator, without acknowledging the development contribution that an improved electricity service can provide in
terms of enhanced productivity and improved quality of life.


                                                        6
Also, the indicators lacked specificity and were defined indirectly (e.g. referred to the agreements
of a treaty without providing any explicit guidance) or proposed for a period after project
completion, thus undermining their practical value during implementation.
Monitoring of the Serbia APL2 project was responsibility of the EPS and EMS PIUs. EPS
provided on a quarterly basis consolidated (for both EPS and EMS components) reports on the
implementation of the project in a format agreed with the Bank. These reports focused mostly on
the status of works for each substation, including the identification of specific problems, updated
schedules when required and commercial completion estimates.
During the last phase EPS collected data on the initial impact of the project and produced
physical indicators of such progress, including improvements in energy losses, voltage
performance, reduction in energy interruptions and additional load supplied. EPS has proven to
have the capacity to continue the evaluation of the project’s impact beyond the implementation
period.
The PIU’s did not monitor progress in the reform agenda nor was always informed of such
progress. This was done at the ME level within the context of ECSEE’s coordination mechanisms.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards
Environment. The project triggered the Environmental Assessment safeguard. In accordance
with OP 4.01, the project was assigned a “Category B? and Environmental Management Plans
(EMPs) were prepared in advance for each of the substations and the associated transmission
lines of Phase I. The eligibility criteria for the investments of Phases II and III included the
submission of an EMP and a Land Acquisition Plan (LAP) satisfactory to the Bank. Appropriate
design measures were taken to mitigate the environmental impact of equipment (e.g. no PCBs,
ensuring that noise and electro magnetic field levels are below Serbian or WHO standards).
Overall, all substations and transmission lines were implemented without facing any significant
problems, with the exception of the interconnecting transmission line for the Mosna substation
(Phase II), which is yet outstanding. The line, originally designed to cross a national park, was
moved outside the park to a route that crosses an adjacent forest. However, a new Forestry Law
that established the payment of high compensation fees (ten times the value of the affected
timber) to obtain the construction license has become an obstacle for its completion. This
problem remained unresolved at the moment of the ICR (October 2012) thus constituting a main
and relatively costly delay in the completion of the project.

Social. The social aspects of the project were taken into account during the design phase. The
project triggered the Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) safeguard because land acquisition
was required for some substations and the foundations of transmission towers. EPS and EMS
prepared LAPs that were reviewed and approved by the Bank. While the total land required was
minimal and the transmission lines were placed usually at the edge of cultivated areas, the
confirmation of right-of-ways caused delays in the commissioning of some substations. These
delays were associated usually to problems with individual landowners. An outstanding case (by
ICR mission, Oct. 2012) was the interconnecting transmission line for the Indjija 2 substation
(Phase III) that, at the moment of the ICR mission, had all towers erected but the laying of cables
was blocked by the complaint of a single landowner.

Fiduciary



                                                 7
Procurement. Procurement activities were carried out in accordance with the World Bank’s
“Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits? of May 2004. In spite of the
overall weakness of the country in conducting public procurement 8 , an assessment of EPS’s
capacity in implementing procurement actions found that the implementing agency had adequate
staff, in skills and quantity, to conduct the required procurement. Nevertheless, training measures
were agreed with the Bank, as well as the engagement of an experienced supervision consulting
firm to support EPS and the newly created EMS, during Phase I of the project.
A Procurement Plan was developed by the Borrower at appraisal and subsequently updated as the
project entered into Phases II and III. The plan contemplated the following procurement methods:
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for the supply of goods and the installation of
equipment; (b) National Competitive Bidding for works; and (c) Fixed Budget Selection for the
supervision consultant. Lessons learned during the initial phases were incorporated into the
Procurement Plan of Phase III that included further breakdown in the bidding packages in order
to achieve more competition 9.
While the procurement performance of the implementing agencies can be regarded as satisfactory,
two unforeseen problems associated to this activity became important factors of delay. These
were:
    •    In July 2009, the winning bidder for the provision of equipment for the Phase II four
         substations (Mosna, Vranje 2, Jagodina 3 and Nis 8) withdrew its bids following a
         settlement with the World Bank related to past misconduct by the firm in other
         international activities. Consequently, EPS approached the second lowest bidder for Lot
         2 (“other substation equipment?) and proceeded to re-bid Lot 1 (transformers) where
         Siemens had been the only bidder. While the ICB re-bidding of transformers provided an
         unexpected benefit –lower prices– it meant a delay of more than half a year that
         motivated the first extension of the project’s closing date; and
    •    The failure of the supplier to deliver transformer equipment for Phase III also caused
         considerable delays. In this case EPS proceeded to apply the remedies contained in the
         contract and started a new ICB procurement process.
In aggregate, it is estimated that these two unforeseen events caused a delay of more than one
year.
Financial management. FM arrangements were implemented in an adequate manner and
maintained throughout the life of the project. EPS and EMS engaged specialists who had the
appropriate skills to manage the project’s financial management and disbursement issues. The
quarterly project financial reports were submitted in a timely manner and in compliance with
World Bank’s accounting policies and internal control procedures.
The audits of the entities EPS and EMS and project financial statements were submitted on a
regular basis, albeit with some minor delays during the period 2009-2010. Project audits did not
highlight any important irregularities. The auditor (issued qualified opinions on entity financial
statements for both EPS and EMS. While these qualifications involved a set of issues vis-à-vis
International Standards of Auditing (ISA), such as the valuation of fixed assets and inventories


8
  A Country Procurement Assessment Report for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia prepared by the Bank in June
2002 concluded that the environment for conducting public procurement in Yugoslavia was highly risky. At the
moment of project appraisal a fiduciary update of that report was in progress.
9
  During phase III the two lots ICB approach for the substations was replaced by three lots, subdividing Lot 2:
Equipment, into two separate lots; Lot 2: Circuit Brakers, Switgears and Auxiliary Supplies, and Lot 3: Rely Protection
Equipment. This breakdown resulted in greater competition and lower prices.


                                                          8
(e.g. obsolete inventories), the number of qualifications and weaknesses identified by the auditor
decreased with time, an evidence that both entities gradually built capacity for the proper
implementation of ISA over the years. Overall, the view of the auditor was that the deficiencies
encountered in the entities’ accounting treatments did not represent significant inaccuracies.
The audits on the project financial statements were satisfactory. While in some exceptional cases
audits were qualified (due to lack of compliance with ISA), no weaknesses were found on internal
controls.
Counterpart financing from EPS and EMS was adequate in quantities and timing throughout the
whole the project life.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Once in operation, the project is not expected to require any particular measures other than
standard maintenance. The new substations and transmission assets belong to EPS and EMS,
respectively, companies responsible for the operation and maintenance of the facilities that have
the technical skills and financial capability to undertake these activities in a satisfactory manner.
However, at the moment of the ICR mission (October 2012) some interconnecting transmission
lines of phases II and III had yet to be completed. 10 While these works and installations are not
funded by IDA, they are an essential component of the project since, while they are not
completed, the new substations will not able to operate or would operate in a technically
suboptimal manner. EMS expects these transmission lines to be completed during the next
calendar year (2013).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project’s objectives focus on the need to improve electricity market access in Serbia through
the provision of a better service –in terms of quality, quantity, reliability and safety– within a SEE
regional context characterized by the countries’ commitment to liberalize and integrate their
power markets. These are medium to long term objectives that require a sustained effort from all
parts. Accordingly, the project is addressing concerns which remain valid in 2012, including the
need to overcome important infrastructure bottlenecks, and hence, its PDO are still relevant at
regional and country levels.
In the particular case of Serbia, a World Bank power sector stock-taking mission concluded in
2010 that important power sector recovery issues remained unresolved and further policy reform
and institutional strengthening was needed to create an attractive environment for public and
private investment. The mission proposed, among other actions, to (a) improve the financial and
commercial viability of the sector; and (b) deepen regional cooperation; two measures that are
supported by the Serbia APL2 thus confirming the relevance of the projects objectives and
components.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Within the regional ECSEE APL program, the Development Objective of the Serbia project is to
improve the electricity market access for consumers and suppliers through a substantial
improvement in the electricity service and strengthen capacity of the institutions to participate n


10
   As of October 2012, the transmission line interconnecting the Mosna substation had not been built; also, the laying
of cables connecting the substation Indjija had not been completed.


                                                           9
the regional electricity market. The project has, therefore, two dimensions: (a) a reform agenda
for regional integration and the liberalization of power markets; and (b) a physical component
aimed at overcoming infrastructure bottlenecks that impeded a satisfactory service in terms of
quantity, quality, reliability and safety.
The Results Framework of the PAD established one single Outcome Indicator: the satisfactory
implementation of commercial agreements between the transmission operator, distribution
companies and the eligible customers. While considerable progress was achieved in the reform
agenda through the unbundling of the sector structure, establishing an independent regulator,
tariffs reform and establishing open access legislation (see section 2.2), the outcome has not been
fully achieved because eligible consumers have not chosen to join the energy market as regulated
tariffs still remain low. Accordingly, there are agreements between the transmission operator with
the distributor, but not with eligible (large) customers.
However, on the infrastructure side, the project has surpassed its original targets, which
contemplated the construction of five 110kV substations in two phases. By the time of the ICR
mission (Oct. 2012), five substations had been commissioned already and four more were
expected to be completed by the first quarter of 2013. Quality of supply data being collected by
EPS indicate important achievements in the reduction in energy losses and service interruptions,
as well as an improvement in voltage levels. 11 Furthermore, there is evidence that the
improvement in the electricity service has contributed towards the growth of important productive
activities, such as local industrial parks and the production of raspberries for export.

3.3 Efficiency
An ex-post economic evaluation of the project, using actual data on costs and early benefits –for
the substations commissioned in Phase I and some of Phase II– as well as updated and better
supported information for future benefits, yielded the following results (details in Annex 3): an
economic internal rate of return of 42.6 % and a net present value (NPV, at 12% discount rate) of
US$63.1 million.
Total investment costs amounted US$ 34.9 million for ten substations and associated
transmission lines. Three key benefits were considered: (a) reduction in energy losses; (b)
reduction in energy interruptions; and (c) the supply of new loads.
The results obtained compare favorably with the estimates at appraisal, which gave a rate of
return of 29% and NPV of US$33 million. The main reason explaining this improvement is the
fact that the project surpassed its physical objectives as ten new substations were completed
instead of the five originally planned. Other factors are an increase in 50% in the average
electricity tariff –which is used as a proxy for economic benefits per unit of energy consumed–
and an increase in the (avoided) cost of alternative power supply associated to the prices of diesel.
Using the appraisal assumptions for average tariffs and costs of alternative generation the ERR
falls to 37% and the NPV to US$ 48.5 million.
Overall, the results confirm the sound and robust economics of the project’s infrastructure
component.




11
   Early results of four of the five completed substations indicate that the quality of supply targets are being surpassed.
In average, energy losses have been reduced by 64%, energy interruptions by 87% and voltage drops by 62%.


                                                            10
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Taking into account the confirmed relevance of the project’s objectives, the progress made in the
reform agenda, the remarkable success of the project’s physical component in surpassing its
targets and the confirmation of a positive and robust economic impact, the overall outcome rating
is considered Moderately Satisfactory.
The rating is not Satisfactory because there are some shortcomings on the reform agenda that
could have an impact on the degree to which the potential benefits of an energy market are fully
achieved. These shortcomings relate to the viability of raising further the tariffs of electricity and
weaknesses in the design of the project in addressing sector reform issues after it was declared
effective. Nevertheless, a stable institutional environment characterized by the Government’s
commitment to reform and regional integration within the ECSEE is likely to mitigate the impact
of this shortcoming.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The improvement in the quantity, quality and reliability of electricity services in rural areas offers
the opportunity of developing productive activities that would not have been possible without the
project. Several of the 110kV substations supported by the project offer such advantage and, thus,
the potential of a major contribution towards economic growth in the respective regions. Two
cases of particular interest in this respect are the substations of Indjija 2 and Arilje.
      •    The 110/20kV substation of Indjija provides the power infrastructure (25MW) required
           for a new industrial park in the vicinities of a small but industrious town;
      •    The 110/35/10 kV substation of Arilje has improved considerably the quality of
           electricity service in the said region, making possible (in only two years) the duplication
           of the refrigeration capacity needed for the production of raspberry. Consequently, the
           region of Arilje is producing about one fourth of the national raspberry production. 12

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
It is recognized by all parties that the adoption of international standards in procurement and
financial management, as well as the support of an experienced supervision engineer during
Phase I of the project, have contributed considerably towards strengthening the capacity of the
implementing agencies EPS and EMS in dealing with investment projects.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None were detected

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable




12
   One third of the world’s raspberries are grown in Serbia. About 98% of the Serbian production is exported at a
value of €250 million per year.


                                                         11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate.
Project risks were assessed adequately at appraisal. These included: (a) the controversies that may
arise upon the development of a regional energy market –such as a different degree of
commitment of different countries, an uneven power trade; (b) the timely development of new
generation capacity, implementation of environmental legislation and the impact of limited
competition; (c) project investment risks typical of an infrastructure project in the power sector,
i.e. possible delays, cost overruns, satisfactory operation; and (d) donor coordination issues.
The project will operate within a stable institutional environment characterized by the
Government’s commitment to the reform and recovery of the power sector, and the commitment
towards regional integration and strong coordination of all countries of the ECSEE. In fact, a well
functioning ECSEE is regarded as the best mitigation measure for regional and country/donor
coordination risks.
The risks of a faulty operation of power facilities supported by the project is considered minimal,
given the use of proven designs and the technical and institutional capacity of the utilities (EPS
and EMS) in charge. There are, however, risks associated to the benefits of the sector reform in
Serbia. While the Government was successful in unbundling the sector, establishing a separate
regulatory agency and increasing considerably electricity tariffs, the degree to which the benefits
of the energy market will be achieved will rely on the political viability of maintaining regulated
tariffs at a level that does not undermine the attractiveness of the market.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank selected a project consistent with the region’s and the country’s needs. The flexibility
offered by an APL approach was consistent with the need to follow an incremental process using
proven technologies. Useful sector work undertaken during an early stage (by the Bank and
Borrower) led to the selection of much needed power infrastructure that addressed bottlenecks in
areas were the project would provide significant benefits, thus ensuring its economic viability.
Evaluations of the Borrower’s capacity were done objectively and the implementation measures
were designed accordingly. Applicable safeguards were indentified correctly. Linking the initial
steps of the reform (sector unbundling and establishing a separate regulator) to loan effectiveness
conditions helped overcoming a main policy challenge and opened doors to the reform process.
The disconnect between the project’s reform and physical components after effectiveness appears
to have slowed down –or reduced pressure on– the pace of reform and, consequently, delayed the
benefits of the energy market. The question is whether some technical assistant supporting
specific steps of the sector reform would have helped. Furthermore, the Key Performance
Indicators (KPI) were either overambitious, lack specificity or were proposed for a time frame
that exceeded the implementation period, thus hindering their effectiveness in linking the two
project agendas and supporting the monitoring progress (section 2.3).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



                                                12
The Bank followed closely the execution of the project and provided guidance at critical moments.
Adequate resources were allocated –in quantity and quality– throughout the implementation
period, including ten supervision missions and the continued provision of local support,
particularly on fiduciary issues. Most of the practical implementation problems encountered
during execution (e.g. delayed effectiveness and some procurement problems) were beyond its
range of action, but the Bank team provided opportune advice.
While delayed with respect to the original schedule, the MTR was undertaken a bit early and
didn’t have much impact. The monitoring of KPI was not done always as rigorously as needed
nor there was an effective attempt to improve them. In fact, restructuring the PDOs through the
incorporation of the development benefits of the infrastructure component (e.g. including an
indicator aimed at measuring the economic impact of a better electricity service) and revising the
indicators for greater specificity could have improved greatly the monitoring and evaluation of
results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
This rating combines the ratings for project preparation and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Government supported the project throughout its entire execution. It revealed a strong
commitment towards the reform of the power sector and the regional ECSEE objectives, and put
in place the new energy regulatory agency and unbundled the sector structure. Counterpart funds
were always made available in appropriate quantities and a timely fashion.
Problems of coordination between agencies and the ME delayed the effectiveness of the project.
The impasse of the Mosna substation –that has yet to be solved– exposes an important problem of
coordination between ministries and sector agencies, the urgent need to streamline Construction
Permits 13 , and an underlying conflict between the objectives of economic growth and
environmental conservation that has yet to be addressed effectively. The Government’s inability
to adjust electricity tariffs at a faster pace could undermine the potential benefits of the energy
market.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
EPS and EMS put in place strong PIUs that received effective support from other corporate
departments. The selection of additional investments (for Phases II and III) was based on sound
planning. Lessons learned during the initial stages were incorporated into the design of
procurement packages thus achieving greater efficiency. Most of the practical implementation
problems encountered during execution (e.g. procurement problems during Phases II and III)
were unexpected and beyond the control of the executing agencies. However, their reaction upon
these problems was diligent and opportune.


13
   Reportedly, the Construction Permits process –managed by the Ministry of the Environment, Mining and Spatial
Planning– took between eight to twelve months; an excessively long period that contributed towards delaying many
activities.


                                                        13
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Combines the ratings for Government and Implementing Agency.

6. Lessons Learned
An APL instrument in conjunction with a sound planning/analytical effort are an
appropriate approach to ensure the success of infrastructure projects characterized by the
incremental implementation of proven technologies. The flexibility provided by the APL
instrument, plus the sound planning of EPS were instrumental in incorporating the experience of
initial stages into the project, ensuring a more effective implementation and enhancing the
project’s economic benefits. The flexible APL approach facilitated also carrying on a
procurement plan that adapted its design to market conditions and consequently achieved
greater competition.
Projects including both policy reform and infrastructure (physical) components pose
additional challenges that require synchronized design and implementation. Complementary
and policy and physical components require a fine-tuning so as to guarantee that they are well
balanced and support each other. Failure to do so may undermine the fulfillment of both
objectives. Two issues to consider in this respect are:
    •   Providing a carefully designed technical assistance for specific parts of the reform
        agenda could be instrumental in ensuring an effective progress in this area and
        maximizing the projects benefits. In the particular case of the Serbia project, an explicit
        technical assistance aimed at supporting the Government in the design and
        implementation of a tariff policy could have proven highly beneficial.
    •   The coordination of both policy reform and physical components could benefit from
        a more specific definition of performance indicators that should be fully consistent
        with the projects PDO and each of the project’s its components.
The active role of the Government is paramount in addressing the conflict between
economic growth and environmental protection objectives. In an economy challenged by high
demand growth, the potential conflict between growth and environmental protection is often
unavoidable. The Mosna substation experience illustrates the need for a more active role of the
Government in coordinating the objectives, policies and programs of different ministries and
public entities in order to minimize contradictions and resolve conflicts. Failure to do so may
render executing agencies incapable in addressing such problems and could undermine the
achievement of project objectives.
The challenges faced by Executing Agencies during a reform process justify an additional
support tailored to their specific needs. The support provided to EPS and EMS (a newly
created entity) by an experienced supervision engineer during the first 18 months of
implementation, as well as by the Bank’s local staff on fiduciary and safeguard issues, proved to
be of great advantage and, therefore, a practice to be replicated in similar cases.
The evaluation of long-term results requires a M&E effort beyond project closure and
broad in scope. In projects aimed at improving the quality of the electricity service, provisions
should be taken to ensure that the monitoring of results continues for a period of at least five
years after project completion. Such information would be useful for a better evaluation of future
projects of similar nature. Furthermore, in the case of projects –such as the APL2 Serbia– that are
likely to provide significant socio-economic benefits to local economies, M&E systems should
include a baseline and KPIs that are broad in scope and duration.



                                                14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                     15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                      Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
                                                          Estimate
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                    (USD millions)
Component 1
   • 110kV Substations                  19.00              25.53        134.4%
   • Supervision Consultants             0.25               0.25        100.0%
   • Unallocated                         7.00               0.00          0.0
   • Total Component Costs              26.25              25.78         88.2%
Component 2                            112.66             129.98         115%
   • 110kV Interconnecting
                                         4.00               2.80         70.0%
      Transmission lines
   • Unallocated                         0.25               0.00          0.00
   • Total Component costs               4.25               2.80         65.9%
Total Financing Required                30.75              28.58         92.9%




(b) Financing
                                                      Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
        Source of Funds                                 Estimate
                                (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                     (USD millions)
 Borrowing Agency                      9.75               8.02           82.3%
    • EPS                              8.00               7.55           94.4%
    • EMS                              1.75               0.47           26.9%
International Development
                                      21.00              20.56           97.9%
Association (IDA)
Total                                 30.75              28.58           92.9%




                                              16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1. Component 1: 110kV Substations and Related Activities; Ten substations (as opposed to the
   five originally planned) have been completed or are expected to be completed n three phases
   by the end of 2012. Consultancy services for a supervision engineer were successfully
   delivered.

2. Component 2: 110kV Interconnecting Transmission Lines and Related Activities; All
   transmission lines have been completed except the line connecting the Mosna substation.

                                            Performance Indicators
Outcome                                   Baseline             Current (Oct. 2012)            End Target
Indicator
Electricity market                        0% of                The energy law approved        ECSEE Treaty –
liberalization which                      consumers            in July 2011 constitutes a     market access for
allows consumers to                                            major step towards full        non-residential
choose their                                                   market opening: all            customers by January
electricity supplier                                           customers, except              2008; also, residential
                                                               residential, will become       customers by January
                                                               eligible no later than         2015 (end target as
                                                               December 2012.                 presented in ISRs.
                                                               Residential and small          The Treaty’s
                                                               consumers will be entitled     agreements go
                                                               to be supplied by public       beyond this target). 14
                                                               suppliers by December
                                                               2014.
                          Comments                             The electricity market is
                                                               formally open to all large
                                                               consumers; however,
                                                               these have not joined the
                                                               market due to a
                                                               significant price
                                                               difference between the
                                                               regulated price and the
                                                               average market price.
                                                               Under the amended
                                                               Energy law, the
                                                               Regulatory Agency
                                                               (AERS) will assume
                                                               tariffs setting
                                                               responsibilities. This
                                                               action is expected to
                                                               facilitate conditions to



14
   The PAD established that the indicators will be those in the final version of the ECSEE Treaty. Through the ECSEE
Treaty (signed in October 2005), contracting parties committed to implementing European Community Directive
2003/54/EC by the above mentioned dates. The said directive enforces minimum requirements for the establishment of
competitive electricity markets, including unbundling of network operation, tasks for transmission and distribution
operators, third-party access to networks, eligibility and market opening, regulator powers, tendering of new capacity,
monitoring of supply, etc. That is, the agreements of the Treaty go beyond the market access targets referred above,
including tariffs that should allow investments to be viable.


                                                          17
Outcome                           Baseline           Current (Oct. 2012)            End Target
Indicator
                                                     achieve full market
                                                     liberalization.
Satisfactory                      No agreements      EMS (transmission
implementation of                 in place.          company) and AERS
commercial                                           were established and
agreements between                                   strengthened during the
EMS, distribution                                    period of project
companies and the                                    implementation.
eligible customers.                                  Subsequently, agreements
                                                     between EPS
                                                     (transmission) and EMS
                                                     (distribution) are in place;
                                                     however, there are no
                                                     agreements with eligible
                                                     customers since these
                                                     have decided not to join
                                                     the energy market.
Intermediate Results Indicators
Quality of supply                 No baseline        To be assessed one year        One year after the
improvement                       values were        after completion of all        substations are fully
                                  defined at         substations.                   commissioned, in
                                  project design.                                   their local service
                                                                                    area: (a) losses are
                                                                                    reduced at by least
                                                                                    15%; (b) voltages are
                                                                                    within their operating
                                                                                    limits; and (c) energy
                                                                                    interruptions are
                                                                                    reduced by at least
                                                                                    40%.
                      Comments                       EPS started to collect         Impact of the project
                                                     quality of supply              (quality of supply) to
                                                     indicators of existing         be monitored
                                                     substations in mid 2011.       continuously until
                                                     These indicators include       one year after the
                                                     voltage drop, energy           completion of the last
                                                     losses, hours of               substation. i.e. mid to
                                                     interruption. Early results    late 2014.
                                                     of four completed
                                                     substations indicate that
                                                     the quality of supply
                                                     targets are being
                                                     surpassed. In average,
                                                     energy losses have been
                                                     reduced by 64%, energy
                                                     interruptions by 87% and
                                                     voltage drops by 62%.
Satisfactory                      Nil                Five substations have          All five substations
completion of                                        been fully completed and       (of phases 1 and 2) to
substations and                                      are in commercial              be completed by
associated                                           operation. Four                project closing date.
transmission lines.                                  additional are expected to


                                                18
Outcome                Baseline        Current (Oct. 2012)          End Target
Indicator
                                       be completed by the first
                                       quarter of 2013. The
                                       Mosna substation has yet
                                       to overcome a license
                                       obstacle related to the
                                       transmission line right of
                                       way.
            Comments                   The project has surpassed
                                       its intermediate target of
                                       five 110kV substations.




                                  19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(a) Economic Analysis
The economic internal rate of return for the project is 42.6 percent and the net present value
(NPV) for the project is estimated to be US$ 63.1 million, based on a 12 percent discount rate
which, as at appraisal, is considered to be the economic opportunity cost of capital in the
Republic of Serbia. The analysis includes the investment costs of US$ 34.9 million for ten new
substations (plus one reserve installation) and associated transmission lines. Taxes and duties are
excluded from the analysis.
The analysis compares with- and without-project cases. The with-project case considers actual
investment costs for the period 2006-2011 and estimates for 2012-2013, and an economic life of
20 years until 2031. The figures presented are constant values for 2006 US$.
The results obtained compare favorably with the estimates at appraisal, which gave a rate of
return of 29% and NPV of US$33 million. The main reason explaining this improvement is the
fact that the project surpassed its physical objectives as ten new substations were completed
instead of the five originally planned. Other factors are an increase in 50% in the average
electricity tariff –which is used as a proxy for economic benefits per energy unit– and an increase
in the (avoided) cost of alternative power supply associated to the prices of diesel. Using the
appraisal assumptions for average tariffs and costs of alternative generation the ERR falls to
37.0% and the NPV to US$ 48.5 million.
The analysis takes into account the following:
    •   The analysis uses performance data provided by EPS for with and without project
        scenarios, including actual improvements for some of the substations already completed
        and forecasts for those to be completed.
    •   Investment figures include the costs of substations and interconnecting lines costs.
        Figures exclude VAT and adjusted for inflation (base year is 2006).
    •   Annual average exchange rates are used to calculate current US$ values which are then
        adjusted for inflation (see above).
    •   The estimates are based on constant prices. The analysis also uses a constant tariff of
        US$ 68.13/MWh assuming no real growth in the tariff. The US$ equivalent tariff is based
        on the average tariff of 5574 CSD/MWh resulting from total electricity sales by EPS of
        28438 GWh in 2011 and EPS’ total income from the sale of electricity of 159,461 million
        CSD in 2011.
    •   The operation and Maintenance costs are assumed to be 2.0 percent of the investment
        costs (provided by EPS).

1. Reduction in Energy Losses. A reduction in energy losses is the first estimated benefit of the
project. The savings from this reduction is valued are the average Serbian electricity tariff as
additional sales of electricity to consumers. In 2011, the average Serbian electricity tariff is
estimated to be US$ 68.13/MWh. The savings estimate amounts to about US$ 1.2 million per
year, or about US$ 23.6 million over the twenty year period. This is more than double the savings
estimated at appraisal, mainly due to the increased number of substations constructed and/or
rehabilitated by the project.
2. Reduction in Energy Interruptions. The reduction in energy interruptions caused by equipment
failure and forced outages lead to the second benefit in this analysis. This reduction is valued at
the cost of unserved energy, which is quantified with 533 US$/MWh, according to the


                                                 20
assumptions at appraisal. The reduction in energy interruptions due to the project is estimated to
result in savings of about US$ 2.4 million per year, or about US$ 47.6 million over the twenty
year period. This value exceeds the appraisal estimate by around 75 percent.
3. Supply of New Load. The installation of new substations leads to an increase in the
transformers capacity, enabling the distribution company to serve additional loads. It is assumed
that the substations will reach its full capacity in six years (by 2016). Based on EPS’s actual
measures and assumptions, it is estimated that an additional load of about 62.5 MW will be
served due to the project’s investments. Assuming a load factor of 60 percent, the eleven ten
substations will serve an additional of 328,600 MWh of electricity per year by 2016. This
surpasses the appraisal estimate by around 80 percent.
The third benefit in this analysis results from the estimated savings to the consumers due to the
avoided cost of alternative electricity supply. The estimated savings to consumers are valued at
the cost of alternative power supply less the average electricity tariff of US$ 68.13/MWh.
According to the PAD, the average capital costs and O&M of the alternative supply by the use of
diesel generators are estimated to value 128.5 US$/MWh. The underlying assumptions are a
capital cost of US$ 533/kW for diesel generators amortized over 10 years and a diesel fuel cost of
US$ 12/GJ. The annual savings are estimated to reach US$ 19.8 million by 2016, resulting in a
total of about US$ 386 million over the twenty year period. This is about 2.5 times larger than the
appraisal estimate.
(b) Financial Analysis
Unbundling of EPS
By decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the activities of the former vertically
integrated public enterprise EPS (Elektorpriveda Srbije) were unbundled on July 1 2005. As a
result, the newly formed independent public enterprise EMS (Elektromreža Srbije) operates the
electric energy transmission and transmission system control. Income Statements and Balance
Sheets are presented below for the two unbundled companies.
While transmission assets were unbundled, the core of the power sector has remained in EPS
hands. Overall, at appraisal the financial situation of the power was challenged by the need to
increase considerably average electricity tariffs, the high operating costs of a large component of
lignite-fired power plants, an oversized staff and the burden of a pre-war debt. During the
implementation of the project the financial situation of EPS and EMS was characterized by a
rapid growth of the market and a gradual recovery of tariffs. The healthier financial situation of
EMS indicates that transmission tariffs are closer to a full cost level than end-user tariffs, which
in spite a considerable increase over the last six years still remain below cost recovery levels thus
placing stress on EPS’s finances.




                                                 21
                                                  Income Statements
EPS: Consolidated                  2005           2006              2007            2008            2009             2010           2011 (non-
Income Statement                                                                                                                     restated)
                                million RSD    million RSD     million RSD       million RSD     million RSD      million RSD       million RSD
Operating Income                      91,254       104,844         120,657           146,578         154,186          172,432           190,325
Revenue (sales)                       84,027         98,196        112,485           135,343         146,191          158,625           178,274
Own-work capitalized                   2,899          2,191           2,665             4,309           4,861            6,466             7,516
Increase in the inventories              469            255             907             1,901          -1,739              850            -1,236
of work in progress, finished
goods
Other operating income                3,859          4,202            4,601            5,025           4,873            6,491             5,772
Operating costs & expenses          -79,649        -95,094          -137,185        -155,828        -143,610         -157,800          -179,098
Cost of goods sold                     -217            -72               -21              -5              -3               -4                -2
Cost of materials, energy           -17,794        -22,365           -28,878         -35,924         -31,467          -40,923           -46,838
and fuel
Staff cost                          -24,261        -29,885           -31,621         -36,402         -39,148          -41,514           -46,982
Depreciation, amortization,         -17,374        -18,607           -48,846         -50,786         -40,141          -39,169           -46,652
provisions
Other operating expenses            -20,002        -24,166           -27,819         -32,711         -32,851          -36,190           -38,624
Net operating income                 11,605          9,749           -16,528          -9,250          10,576           14,632            11,227

Finance income                        7,756         11,393             8,662           8,350           9,701           12,304             9,893
Finance expenses                    -16,192         -5,272            -3,206         -10,830          -6,740          -12,610            -4,020
Other income                         18,714         17,504             4,711           2,736           2,431            6,227            53,941
Other expenses                      -20,862        -14,976          -102,872         -17,712         -25,481          -23,605           -41,437
Profit before taxation                1,021         18,399          -109,233         -26,705          -9,513           -3,051            29,605
Income taxes                         -2,249         -1,365              -592            -539            -670              172            -2,785
Deferred tax benefits/                    0           -249            10,211           3,094           1,659                0                 0
expenses of the period
Profit/loss for the year             -1,228         16,784           -99,614         -24,151          -8,523           -2,878            26,820

EMS: Consolidated                  2005           2006              2007            2008             2009              2010             2011
Income Statement                                                                                                                        (non-
                                                                                                                                      restated)
                                million RSD    million RSD     million RSD       million RSD      million RSD      million RSD         million
                                                                                                                                         RSD
Operating Income                     4,018           5,135             6,522          12,348           12,055            12,412          14,377
Revenue (sales)                      3,732           4,766             6,017          11,454           10,903            12,050          14,070
Own-work capitalized                   111             184               358             662              914                70              57
Other operating income                 175             185               146             233              238               293             250
Operating costs & expenses           -3,542         -4,337            -5,057          -11,369         -11,719           -11,103         -12,264
cost of goods sold                       -1             -4                -4               -4              -3                -4              -4
cost of materials                      -240           -338              -397           -3,586          -3,326            -3,344          -3,845
staff cost                           -1,133         -1,448            -1,601           -1,907          -2,028            -1,854          -2,109
Depreciation, amortization,          -1,754         -1,850            -1,924           -3,037          -3,018            -2,930          -3,028
provisions
Other operating expenses              -413            -698            -1,132           -2,836           -3,344           -2,971          -3,278
Net operating income                   476             798             1,465              979               336           1,310           2,112
Finance income                          93           1,118               532              832               824             920           1,084
Finance expenses                      -790            -533              -503           -2,027              -982          -1,812            -547
Other income                            77             108               133              734               256             787             139
Other expenses                        -709            -599            -1,112             -333               -24            -493            -251
Profit before taxation                -853               893               515             186              410               711         2,538
Income taxes                             0               -30                60             -61              -65               -63          -164
Deferred tax benefits of the           124               110               -47              91               72                72            69
period
                                                                            16
Profit/loss for the year              -729               972               543             216              417               720         2,443




                                                               22
                                                     Balance Sheets
EPS: Consolidated                 2005           2006           2007            2008            2009           2010        2011 (non-
Balance Sheet                                                                                                               restated)
                               million RSD    million RSD    million RSD     million RSD     million RSD    million RSD    million RSD
Assets
Long-term assets                  387,446         384,736         551,718        532,242         520,826        528,362      1,150,624
Intangible assets                   2,031           2,245           2,373          2,428           2,426          2,482          2,558
Property, plant and               378,203         378,124         537,884        523,406         512,255        516,817      1,139,475
equipment
Investment property                      43             41             44             44              57             52            379
Advances intangible assets,               0              0          4,704          3,786           3,342          5,851          5,847
property, plant, equip.
Equity investments                  2,558           1,797           3,850          1,098           1,268          1,481            981
Long-term receivables and           4,610           2,529           2,863          1,479           1,478          1,679          1,383
placements
Current assets                     53,159          62,406          68,649         76,759          85,869         98,556        102,950
Inventories                        15,046          18,318          20,388         23,020          22,068         25,456         25,164
Advances for inventories                0               0           2,131          2,118           2,141          2,403          2,134
Accounts receivable                21,267          27,486          36,858         41,506          49,411         60,744         66,533
Receivables for prepaid                18             286             534            461             269              0              0
income taxes
Short-term financial                5,497           6,333           2,069          2,073           2,031          1,898          2,873
placements
Cash & cash equivalents             9,272           8,539           5,399          6,217           8,662          6,054          5,472
VAT and prepayments                 2,058           1,445           1,271          1,363           1,288          2,001            774
Deferred tax assets
Total assets                      440,605         447,142         620,367        609,001         606,695        626,918      1,253,574
Off-balance sheet items                 0          39,380               0              0               0        140,500        186,823
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                            325,065         341,859         489,339        463,717         456,042        453,021      1,014,603
State-owned capital               358,324         358,656         358,656        358,656         358,718        358,718        358,718
Other capital funds                 1,623           1,292           1,292          1,293           1,232          1,266          1,265
Revaluation reserves                   24               0         248,637        248,089         246,539        245,681        781,743
Unrealized gains on                     0               0           2,589              0             197            400             22
securities
Unrealized losses on                      0              0              0           -253            -477           -476           -664
securities
Accumulated losses                -34,906         -18,089         -121,836      -144,069        -150,168       -152,567       -126,481
Long-term provisions and           53,482          42,354          43,793         53,067          55,125         64,185         60,555
liabilities
Long-term liabilities                 756           1,704           3,622          7,515           9,088         10,848         12,341
Long-term interest-bearing         45,467          34,688          35,097         41,550          41,451         49,870         45,541
borrowings
Other long-term liabilities         7,259           5,962           5,074          4,002           4,586          3,467          2,673
Short-term liabilities             50,613          51,255          59,983         67,106          71,793         86,864         96,119
Short-term interest-               14,239           9,469           9,387          9,582          12,845         16,224         17,682
bearing borrowings and
other short-term financial
liabilities
Accounts payable                   11,069          16,819          26,341         33,965          33,020         42,048         52,090
Other short-term liabilities       22,399          20,615           4,754          3,243           4,123          6,161          2,979
and accruals
Value added tax and other           2,278           3,030          19,305         20,144          21,740         22,351         20,836
duties payable
Income taxes payable                  628           1,323              196             172             65             79         2,532
Deferred tax liabilities           11,445          11,674          27,253         25,110          23,724         22,848         82,297
Total equity and liabilities      440,605         447,142         620,367        609,001         606,684        626,918      1,253,574
Off-balance sheet items                 0          39,380          42,456         77,974          76,990        140,500        186,823




                                                             23
EMS: Consolidated                 2005            2006              2007            2008            2009            2010         2011 (non-
Balance Sheet                                                                                                                     restated)
                               million RSD     million RSD     million RSD       million RSD     million RSD     million RSD     million RSD
Assets
Long-term assets                    40,558          41,470           42,419           56,774          55,550          54,647          55,525
Intangible assets                       22              40               44               41              43              56              58
Property, plant and                 39,508          39,793           40,935           54,165          54,152          53,170          54,114
equipment
Equity investments                        0               8                 0                8               8             109           109
Advances for property and                 0               0                 0              672             152             602           606
plant investments
Long-term investments                1,028           1,629            1,440            1,887           1,195               710           638

Short-term assets                    2,425           3,180            4,243            6,586           8,578          10,940          12,460
Inventories                            347             465              515              385             452             452             536
Trade & other receivables            1,343             955            1,886            1,961           1,230           1,717           2,658
Short-term investments                  45             246            1,288            1,495           3,491           3,853           5,179
Cash and cash equivalents              606           1,428              372            2,052           2,462           3,876           3,074
Receivables for overpaid                 0               0                2                0
income tax
VAT and prepayments                      83              86                182             692             943         1,043           1,012
Total short-term assets
Deferred tax assets                       0               0                 0               0               0

Total assets                        42,983          44,651           46,663           63,359          64,128          65,586          67,985
Off-balance sheet items                  0               0            6,027                0               0
(2006)
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                              29,879          30,971           31,144           45,183          45,191          45,342          47,280
State and other capital             30,420          30,540           30,540           30,540          30,540          30,540          30,540
Reserves                                 0               0                1                1               1
Revaluation reserves                     0               0                0           12,207          12,192          12,058          12,055
Retained earnings                        0             972              603            2,434           2,457           2,744           4,685
Accumulated losses                    -541            -541                0                0               0

Long-term liabilities and            6,822           7,937            9,661           11,240          12,555          14,305          14,188
provisions
Long-term provisions                    41              90              160              184             284             197             305
Long-term                            4,526           6,605            7,859           10,788          12,007          13,840          13,631
loans/borrowings
Other long-term liabilities          2,255           1,242            1,642                268             264             268           252

Short-term liabilities               4,145           3,716            3,847            5,506           5,024           4,665           5,310
Short-term financial                 1,316             881            1,144            1,256           1,398             719             843
liabilities
Operating liabilities ,                  457             683                0          1,828           1,097           1,478           1,877
(2008, 2009: accounts
payables)
Trade and other payables                 0                0                630               0               0           265             254
Other short-term liabilities         2,292               82                384             517             884         2,196           2,238
and accruals
Tax payables (2008, 2009:                80          2,040            1,689            1,873           1,637                 6            98
VAT and other duties
payable and accruals)
Income tax payables                       0              30                 0              33               9

Deferred tax liabilities             2,136           2,027            2,011            1,430           1,358           1,275           1,206

Total equity and liabilities        42,983          44,651           46,663           63,359          64,128          65,586          67,985
Off-balance sheet items              6,273           6,078            6,027           14,371          15,868          19,133          19,391
(2006)




                                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
          Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
Mohinder Gulati           Lead Energy Specialist                 ECSIE TTL
Michael Gascoyne          Sr. Financial Management Specialist   ECS-ECA
Miroslav Frick            Project Officer                        ECSIE
Husam Mohamed Beides      Sr. Power Engineer                     ECSIE
Gailius Draugelis         Operations Officer                    ECS-ECA

Supervision/ICR
Salvador Rivera           Lead Energy Specialist                ECSEG   TTL
Varadarajan Atur          Sr. Financial Analyst                 ECSSD   former TTL
Husam Mohamed Beides      Sr. Power Engineer                    ECSSD
Margaret Png              Legal Counsel                         LEGLE
Aleksandar Crnomarkvic    Financial Management Specialist       ECSO3
Enrique Crousillat        Consultant                            ECSEG   ICR author
Miroslav Frick            Operations Officer                    ECSSD
Katsuyuki Fukui           Sr. Power Engineer                    ECSEG   Engineering
Bjorn Hamso               Senior Energy Economist               ECSSD   former TTL
Lewis Hawke               Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist         ECSC3
Charles A. Husband        Consultant                            ECSEG
Nicola Ille               Sr. Environmental Specialist          ECSS3
Bekim Imeri               Social Scientist                      ECSS4
Plamen S. Kirov           Sr. Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
José M. Martinez          Sr. Procurement Specialist            ECSO2
Chukwudi H. Okafor        Sr. Social Development Specialist     ECSS4
Milan Popovic             Operations Officer                    ECCYU
Desanka Stanic            Program Assistant                     ECCYU
Stratos Tavolaureas       Consultant                            ETWES
Claudia Vasquez           Energy Economist                      ECSEG
Richard Wong              Consultant                            ECSIE
Desanka Stanic            Program Assistant                     ECCYU
Rozena Serrano            Program Assistant                     ECSEG


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                          34.76                    175.829
Supervision/ICR



                                           25
                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                   USD Thousands (including
                                  No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
                                                                      1.034
 FY05
  FY06                                   11.85                       49.236
  FY07                                   14.62                       83.992
  FY08                                   15.20                       71.243
  FY09                                   25.02                       87.972
  FY10                                   29.63                      103.125
  FY11                                   21.62                       99.539
  FY12                                    8.18                       72.951
  FY13                                     .20                        6.325
                         Total:         126.32                      751.245




                                      26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable



Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
The Borrower’s ICR was prepared by together with . It contains valuable information organized
as follows:

A. Overall Impact of the Project is Positive:

The project has brought clear benefits in three fronts:

•   Technical
    Improving reliability and quality of service in critical areas in need of rehabilitation. Actually,
this is the first major investment on the rehabilitation of Sub-Transmission Substations, with
voltage level of 110 kV, over the last 25 years.
•   Local Economic Development.
    As shown below in Description of 10 S/S, the modernization/expansion of the SSs has
facilitated the development of the local industry and agriculture. These benefits, besides
technical benefits such as loss reduction, etc, should be taken into account in the future in
development of similar projects.
•   Improving of better household supply with electrical energy, as shown below in
Description of 10 S/S.
The lessons learned will serve as a model to further modernize and rehabilitate more than 150
Sub-Stations in EPS' assets, of which 54 will be transferred from EMS as part of the new Energy
Law, to take effect on January 1, 2013.

Description of 10 S/S,

PHASE I

    The 110/20 kV Ma?vanska Mitrovica S / S, which has been in operation since 2009, has
replaced the existing 35/10 kV S/S, which results in more reliable supply.

    Interruptions were reduced by 98%, output increased by 33%, the number of customers
increased by 32% and losses were reduced by 77%. Improved the supply of 35 kV surrounding
network with the transformation of 20/35 kV. The total voltage conditions are vastly improved.

    In addition to improving the supply of households is enabled and fabric development. A
factory for battery production began.


                                                  27
    110/35/10 kV substation Arilje S / S, which has been in operation since 2009 replaced the
existing 35/10 kV, which results in more reliable supply. Interruptions were reduced by 96%,
output increased by 20%, the number of customers increased by 8% and losses were reduced by
84%. Improved the supply of 35 kV network surrounding the transformation of 10/35 kV. The
total voltage conditions are vastly improved.

    Especially the improved conditions for economic growth: raspberry production and textile
industry.

    The substation of Arilje has improved considerably the quality of electricity service in the
said region, making possible (in only two years) the duplication of the refrigeration capacity
needed for the production of raspberry. Consequently, the region of Arilje is producing about one
fourth of the national raspberry production.

PHASE II

    110/35/10 kV substation Niš 8 S / S, which has been in operation since 2011 replaced the
existing 35/10 kV, which results in more reliable supply. Interruptions were reduced by 82%,
output increased 4 times, the number of customers increased by 4.8 times and the loss reduced by
60%.

   The significant increase in load and the number of customers has been achieved by linkage of
consumers from the downtown of Niš to this S / S.

    The total voltage conditions are significantly improved by 16%.

    110/35/10 kV Vranje 2 is a new S / S, which has been in operation since 2011 is
substantively improve the reliability of electricity supply.

   Interruptions were reduced by 73%, output increased by 50%, losses were reduced by 36%.
Improved the supply of 35 kV surrounding network. The total voltage conditions are improved by
33%.Enabled the construction of new residential buildings, improved supply of existing
households and enabled of industrial and fabric development.

    The main reason for the construction of the 110/35 kV S/S MOSNA is a significant
improvement of electricity supply in Iron Gate (Djerdap) region around Donji Milanovac which
has so far had very long hours and often several daily interruptions in the supply of electricity
especially in winter, when snow and ice tore the existing transmission line, over 40 years.

    This S / S are completed in 2011.

     Expected date of commissioning of S / S is the end of 2013, if EMS completes construction
of transmission lines 100 kV Majdanpek 2-Mosna.

   Expected improvements: interruptions are reduced by 73%, power increases by 98%, the
number of customers by 1%, reduce losses by 82% and improve the voltage drop by 71%.

    The 110/20 kV Jagodina 3 is a new S / S, which replaces the existing S / S 35/10 kV. The
commissioning is expected in early 2013. This S/S will significantly improve the reliability of
electricity supply. Expected improvements: interruptions are reduced by 42%, power increases by


                                               28
56%, the number of customers by 74%, reduce losses by 54% and improve the voltage drop by
59%.

   Improve the supply of existing households, Building of new and improve the quality of
supply to industrial consumers.

    PHASE III

    110/35/10 kV substation lićevo Kragujevac, which has been in operation since July 2012,
and has replaced the existing 35/10 kV, which results in more reliable supply. Interruptions were
reduced by 95%, output increased by 20%, the number of customers increased by 1% and losses
were reduced by 7%. Improved the supply of 35 kV network surrounding the transformation of
10/35 kV.

    110/35 kV S/S Neresnica, with the commissioning is expected in early 2013-that will
dramatically improve the supply of electricity to underdeveloped areas in eastern Serbia-Ku?evo
region. It will supply the existing 35/10 kV in the same location and in the vicinity of three new
35 kV transmission lines (Rabrovo.)

   Expected improvements: interruptions are reduced by 85%, reduce losses by 82% and
improve the voltage profile by 97%.

   Create conditions for increasing the capacity of the water plant as the construction of new
small producing facilities. Supply by electricity of this rural area to improve measurable.

    The 110/20 kV Inđija 2 S / S, which is driven by the end of 2012-and, will supply new
customers in the industrial zone (IT park, pumps factory, processing of animal waste-plant,).
Interruptions will be reduced by 50%, increase power by 33%, the number of consumers
increasing by 33% and reduce losses by 33%. Reduce the voltage drops to 20%.

    Replacement of the existing substation 35/10 kV damaged by the earthquake in Kraljevo
2010, a new substation 110/10 kV RIBNICA.

    Interruptions will be reduced by 95%, increase power by 72%, the number of consumers
increasing by 60% and reduce losses by 92%. Reduce the voltage drops to 100%.

B. Project Design:

     While separating funding sources for works (EPS) and goods (World Bank) may have
initially slowed down construction, it had the added benefit of allowing the growth of the Serbian
electricity service industry which is now providing competitive services to EPS and other utilities
in the region. This has definitely been an added lasting benefit to EPS and to the energy service
industry in Serbia.

   Instead of 3-4 companies dealing with the construction of S/Ss in 2005 today, in Serbia exists
dozen of them.

C. Implementation:

    1. During implementation EPS have some suggestion according Delivery Parity
       (INCOTERMS), as follows:


                                                29
    Advantages of DDU (Delivery Duty Unpaid) over CIP (Carriage and Insurance Paid to)

   Under the DDU terms the buyer takes the minimum possible risk. The goods in working
conditions are delivered to the buyer in the place of destination, unloaded.

    The seller is obliged to provide that the goods are accompanied with a relevant invoice, to
obtain all export permits and licenses, to carry out export clearing, transport to the final
destination, to notify the buyer of dispatch, and to send the buyer proof of delivery.

    The buyer is obliged to pay for the goods, obtain all import permits and licenses, carry out
import clearing, notify the seller of the exact time and point of delivery under the contract, and
accept the seller’s advice of dispatch.

    With regard to insurance neither the seller nor the buyer have any obligations.

    RISK passes from the seller to the buyer at the place of final destination. The seller bears all
risks of loss and damage to the goods up to the place of final destination. The buyer is obliged to
provide the unloading of the goods, at his risk.

    This term is used for any mode of transportation.

    The CIP terms imply there is a greater risk for the buyer compared to DDU terms. The
goods are delivered into the place of destination (site), unloaded, and only insured (not
necessarily in working condition) i.e. the buyer gets an insurance policy.

    The seller shall provide the goods with the accompanying invoice, all export permits and
licences, export clearing, transport to the place of final destination, a minimal policy of insurance,
and shall advise the buyer on despatch of the goods and send the buyer proof of delivery.

     The buyer shall pay for the goods, obtain all import permits and licences, carry out import
clearing, notify the seller of the exact time and point of delivery under the contract, and accept the
seller’s advice of dispatch.

    The seller shall obtain an insurance policy with minimum cargo coverage clauses for example,
from the Institute of London Underwriters. If the buyer requires better insurance, the seller shall
provide such insurance at the buyer’s expense.

    RISK passes from the seller onto the buyer when the seller delivers the goods to the carrier.

    The buyer shall bear all risks of loss and damage to the goods from the moment the seller has
delivered the goods to the carrier.

    This term is used for air or ocean containerized and roll-on roll-off shipments.

  The advantages of DDU over CIP terms are obvious, and this is the reason why we insist on
DDU.

   Changes to STD regarding incorporation of DDU terms instead of CIP shall be made
consistently and fully and they will also apply to ITB, BDS, Price Schedules and the Contract.



                                                 30
   2. During implementation EPS have some comment on reason for delays

    One of the main reasons for delays in the project (9 months), is delay of opinion (No
objection) from the WB on Evaluation report in the second stage.

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Serbia – Project Appraisal Document, June 2005
Supervision Aide Memoires and Project/Implementation Status Reports
EPS Status of Works and delivery Reports.




                                           31
