Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13179
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1620-BU)
JUNE 17, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1620-BU)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Year                   US$         Francs Burundais (FBU)
1985                    1                    120,7
1986                    1                    114,2
1987                    1                    123,6
1988                    1                    140,4
1989                    1                    158,7
1990                    1                    171,3
1991                    1                    181,5
1992                    1                   208,3
1993 (March)            1                   238,7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AFVP          Voluntary Organization (Association des volontaires du progres)
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FAC           Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
FAO/CP        FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
ICRAF         International Council for Research in Agroforestry
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
ISA           Agricultural Institute (Institut superieur d'agriculture)
ISABU         Agricultural Research Institute of Burundi (Institut des sciences agronomiques du
Burundi)
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MINATE        Ministry of Land Management, Tourism  and the Environment (Ministere de
1'amrnagement, du tourisme et de 1'environnement)
PCR           Project Completion Report
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
WFP           World Food Program



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 17, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Burundi -
Second Forestry Project (Credit 1620-BU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Burundi - Second Forestry Project (Credit
1620-BU) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower did not prepare Part II.
The project was consistent with both Government policy and the Bank's assistance
strategy. Project implementation, and its management, were (and continue to be) of high quality,
although there was too much emphasis on achieving physical targets and not enough on institutional
aspects. As of the closing date, project outcomes were in accordance with the appraisal report, and
total project costs were barely over target. Cancellation of SDR 2.2 million (out of SDR 12.8 million
equivalent) at Credit closing was due entirely to exchange rate fluctuations.
The economic benefits of the project as a whole cannot be quantified. Economic returns
to the only component for which benefits could be quantified (new commercial plantations,
accounting for 27 percent of total project costs) are 7 percent (as compared with 24 percent at
appraisal); this is largely attributable to inaccurate estimation of demand and prices.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, but its sustainability is unlikely given the
weak integration of project activities in the regular technical services of the Forestry Department,
high recurrent costs, difficulty in selling wood products, and recent civil disturbances. The project
had a modest impact in terms of institutional development.
The PCR is complete and informative. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatlon.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1620-BU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE    ....................................................                                                                      i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  ....................  1
Project Identity .............................................  1
Background ...............................................  1
Project Objectives and Description    ................................    2
Project Design and Organization  ..................................    3
Project Implementation  ........................................                                                          5
Project Results  .............................................    6
Project Sustainability  .........................................    9
Bank Performance  ...........................................                                                             9
Borrower Performance .......................................  10
Project Relationship  .........................................                                                         10
Consulting Services  .........................................                                                          10
Project Documentation and Data  .................................                                                       11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...                                                             ......  12
PART  III:  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION   ..............................    13
Table 1:  Related On-going IDA  Credits  ............................                                                   13
Table 2:  Project Timetable  ....................................                                                       14
Table 3: Credit Disbursements .................................   15
Table 4:  Project Implementation    ................................                                                    17
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing    .............................                                                  18
Table 6:  Projects Results  .....................................                                                       20
Table 7:  Status of Covenants ...................................                                                       26
Table 8:  Use of Bank Resources   ................................                                                      27
ANNEXES
1.        Economic and Financial Analysis
2.        Technical Annex
MAP: IBRD 18487 - Burundi Second Forestry Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1620-BU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Forestry Project in Burundi for
which Credit 1620-BU in the amount of SDR million (US$12.8 million equivalent) was approved on
July 1985. The credit was closed on March 31, 1993, one year and a half behind schedule, and the
final disbursement was made on August 5, 1993, at which time the undisbursed balance of SDR 2.2
million (US$3.1 million equivalent) was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department III of
the Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The report is based on the
findings of a mission which visited Burundi in July 1993, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit
Agreement, supervision and project reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and
interviews of Bank staff and Government officials. The report was sent to the Borrower on
December 29, 1993, with a request to provide comments. No comments were received.






iii
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1620-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.    Large afforestation programs were first initiated in Burundi in 1978. Their objectives covered
not only forest resources, but also soil fertility and soil erosion. The International Development
Association's (IDA) involvement in the sub-sector started in 1977/78 with the preparation and
appraisal of the First Forestry Project (Cr. 918-BUI). The implementation of this project was
generally successful and most physical targets were met. The main problems encountered during its
implementation were: (i) chronic shortages of counterpart funding; (ii) limited land availability at
some of the plantation sites, coupled with resistance by the local population; (iii) lack of suitable
candidates for training; (iv) lack of a clear definition of responsibilities of various units and weak
field level organization; (v) lack of equipment (especially means of transport); (vi) weak forestry
extension and its limited cooperation with the agricultural extension service; and (vii) poor
coordination among the various projects in the sub-sector in the absence of a coherent investment
program. In 1985, the Government issued a policy paper proposing a strategic framework for
addressing the complex issues facing the sub-sector. This paper emphasized private initiative and cost
recovery, institutional measures and reorganization proposals, and a framework for investments in
forestry services, plantations, wood-processing and marketing.
Objectives
2.     The Project was the second phase of a long-term program to develop basic forestry services
mainly of the Forestry Department, to promote tree planting by farmers in agroforestry and sylvo-
pastoral approaches, and to establish plantations supplying fuelwood, building poles and timber.
Project Design and Organization
3.    The project design was well adapted to perceived needs. However, some problems in design
which emerged during implementation were: (i) the institutional and financial weakness in Burundi
to manage state forests; (ii) the large size of the industrial plantation component; (iii) the lack of
need-related production of seedlings in rural nurseries; (iv) the rather excessive allocation of US$1.5
million for the pilot agro-pastoral component; (v) the effect of high level disbursements on some
components on the local support for other components; and(vi) the limited commercial demand for
state plantation wood products.
Project Implementation
4.     The project implementation and its management were (and continue to be) of high quality.
The main problems during implementation were: (i) adaptation to institutional and national strategy



iv
changes which had implications for project design; (ii) non-availability of adequate soils for industrial
plantations, the fire risks and marketing difficulties; (iii) definition of a new approach based on
private and group-run nurseries to replace expensive project nurseries, and the lack of public
exposure and maintenance of demonstration plots; (iv) a "top down" approach adopted by the project
in the agro-pastoral activities and the difficult collaboration with agricultural and livestock
departments at the field level; (v) insufficient integration of project activities in the permanent
Forestry Department technical services; and (vi) lack of cost accounting and of a monitoring and
evaluation unit.
Project Results
5.    In quantitative terms, the project results were in conformity with the appraisal report. The
institutional and production effects of the project were positive. The main weaknesses were in: (i)
the strengthening of the Forestry Department technical services; (ii) the low profitability of industrial
plantations; and (iii) the limited impact of rural nurseries and of agro-pastoral activities at the farm
level. The environmental impact in the future is linked to the quality of plantation management. The
competition between the production of state and farmer plantations is an important social risk.
6.     The project had positive institutional effects on forestry in Burundi mainly through
organizational improvements, technical assistance, training and foreign study tours. However, due
to budgetary constraints, the sustainability of project institutional impact is doubtful.
7.     The economic benefits of the project as a whole cannot be quantified. It is assumed that the
economic benefits of the rural nursery component will have been considerable, although it is not
possible to assess them in the absence of monitoring and evaluation activities. The economic benefit
of the commercial plantation component, as measured by the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is
substantially lower than anticipated (7 versus 24 percent). The explanation for this variance is almost
entirely related to market factors and inaccurate determination of economic prices at appraisal.
8.     The lower than anticipated financial impact of the commercial plantation component (3.4
versus 9.2 percent) is due to market factors and wrong assumptions concerning the likely development
of financial prices for wood products, which were assumed to increase by an unrealistically high 20
percent per annum in real terms between 1985 and 1990.
Project Sustainability
9.    In spite of excellent implementation and the progressive replacement of the expatriates by
national technicians, the project, except for the privatization of seedlings production and plantations,
must be considered non-sustainable, given: (i) its weak integration in the permanent technical
services of the Forestry Department; and (ii) the high recurrent costs and difficulties in selling wood
products, and the great production variability between the different sites.
Lessons Learned
10.    The main lessons of relevance from the project are:



V
(a)    It is imperative to continue development of national capacity for the management of
forest resources, through institutional development (better integration of project
activities in the permanent institutional structures), training and research; in
particular, interventions in the forestry sector should be based on an enhanced
understanding of socio-economic and agronomic conditions.
(b)    The main emphasis in large-scale afforestation projects should be on efficient
management in relation to objectives (protection and/or production), sustainable
exploitation and conservation of existing resources. In particular, attention should
be given to possible mechanisms for involving the local population and/or the private
sector in sustainable forestry resource management. The operating costs to maintain
existing state plantations have to be included in the national budget.
(c)    Support for agroforestry including private and farmers' group-run nurseries should
be intensified, with particular regard to the diversification and intensification of
smallholder on-farm silviculture. This support includes better collaboration between
agriculture and forestry departments in the field than observed during the initial
stages of project implementation.
(d)    Urgent steps should be taken to study and promote the market development for wood
products, with particular attention to constraints to intensified private sector
participation.  The service in charge of commercialization within the Forestry
Department had very competent staff, but lacked the financial and material means to
play a significant role in this respect.
(e)    Further research efforts should have been focused on existing local knowledge and
practices in agroforestry and tree management, and on facilitating participative
development through the study of farmers' needs.  Research should also have
addressed the use of trees as a source both of food and cash income for the
participating farmers.






1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1620-BU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name         Second Forestry Project
Credit No.           Credit 1620-BU
RVP Unit             Africa - South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Country       :      Burundi
Sector               Agriculture
Sub-sector           Forestry
2.    Background
2.1    The Government first initiated large afforestation programs in 1978 to replenish its dwindling
forest resources. Though implemented satisfactorily, these efforts were limited in their impact by
the absence of a long-term  sub-sector strategy and institutional weaknesses.  Therefore, with
assistance from bi-lateral and multi-lateral agencies, the Government initiated a review of the forestry
sub-sector. The policy paper which emerged proposed a broad strategic framework for addressing
the complex issues facing the sub-sector, including wood supply in all its forms as well as threats to
the environment. Proposals for action emphasized private initiative and cost recovery, institutional
measures and reorganization proposals (reinforcement of the Forestry Department and better linkages
between forestry and crop and livestock development), and a framework for investments in forestry
services, plantations, and wood processing and marketing. The policy paper was officially endorsed
by Government in 1985.
2.2    First Forestry Project (Cr. 918-BUI).  IDA's involvement in the sub-sector started in
1977/78, with the preparation and appraisal of the First Forestry Project. This project, partly
financed with an IDA credit of US$4.3 million, which became effective in October 1979, represented
the first stage of a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and plantations supplying
fuelwood, building poles and timber. Project implementation was generally successful and most
physical targets were achieved. The main problems encountered during implementation were: (i)
chronic shortages of counterpart funding that were only overcome after the establishment of a
revolving fund financed by credit funds; (ii) limited land availability at some of the plantation sites,
coupled with resistance by the local population; (iii) lack of suitable candidates for training; (iv) lack
of a clear definition of responsibilities of various units and weak field level organization; (v) lack of
equipment (especially means of transport); (vi) weak forestry extension and limited cooperation with
the agricultural extension service; and (vii) poor coordination among the various projects in the sub-
sector in the absence of a coherent investment program.



2
3.     Project Objectives and Description
3.1    The Second Forestry Project was the second phase of a long-term program to develop basic
forestry services and promote tree planting by farmers, and to establish plantations supplying
fuelwood, building poles and timber. It supported Government's strategy for forestry development,
notably in speeding the pace of reforestation on individual farms and in larger scale plantations. It
aimed at laying the groundwork for the future development of agroforestry. The project had
important institutional development objectives, notably in strengthening the Forestry Department,
particularly its capacity to manage investment programs and staff training. It supported new research
programs in agroforestry and pilot schemes to promote an integrated sylvo-pastoral approach, and
training of charcoal makers. Furthermore, it provided support for ongoing efforts to establish long-
term pricing and marketing strategies and mechanisms to implement these. The project, thus,
addressed the main issues encountered during the implementation of the First Project in the financial,
institutional and policy areas.
3.2    The Project to be executed over a period of five years (1985-1990), comprised the following
components:
(a)    development of 90 Government-run rural nurseries (about one per commune),
including further development of 60 existing nurseries and establishment of about 30
new nurseries, each producing 40,000-50,000 seedlings (3-4 million altogether) per
year; development of forestry extension services and a pilot agroforestry scheme; and
establishment of 2,000 ha of demonstration fuelwood, pole, fodder and fruit plots in
communes throughout the country (5 ha per year close to each rural nursery);
(b)    establishment by the Government of:
(i)      3,500 ha of eucalyptus fuelwood and pole plantations at Gakara,
Bukinanyana and Mabanda, mainly to supply charcoal to Bujumbura;
and
(ii)      1,500 ha of pine timber commercial plantations at Vyanda and
Vugizo;
(c)    protection, maintenance and silvicultural treatment of existing plantations established
under the Phase I project (about 2,000 ha of eucalyptus and 4,000 ha of pine);
(d)    initiation of a program to promote integrated sylvo-pastoral activities, on a pilot
basis, in a few selected plantation areas with high population density which, by
supporting crop and livestock activities of farmers, would alleviate tensions
encountered earlier over use of land for plantations and ensure balanced agricultural
development in these areas;
(e)    institutional strengthening of the Forestry Department through the creation of a
planning and monitoring unit, and two new regional inspectorates, including support
for additional staff, buildings, equipment and operating costs, and expatriate technical
assistance and strengthening of the project management unit; and
(f)    an agroforestry training and research program, including overseas scholarships for
foresters at university level and local training; and studies, trials and training



3
consultancies in agroforestry, charcoal-marking, forest exploitation and wood
utilization.
4.     Project Design and Organization
A. Design
4.1    Project design addressed the major issues identified during implementation of the predecessor
project (para. 3.1). In retrospect, it can be argued that certain design aspects were weak.
4.2   Institutional capacity. The main problems, not clearly addressed at appraisal, were: (i) the
central ownership of forest resources and inefficiencies due to institutional weaknesses, particularly
over-emphasis on centralized decision-making and consequent inability to promote privatization and
local initiatives for rural forestry activities and state forest management; (ii) predominance of resource
building and insufficient promotion of forest management and marketing capacities; and (iii) failure
to update the forest policy and legal framework, particularly as regards forest revenues, taxation and
concession allocation systems.
4.3   Industrial plantations component. The design of this component was consistent with the
objectives outlined in the Burundi Forestry Plan of 1985, which envisaged reforestation of 300,000
ha. In retrospect, it appears that these objectives were over-ambitious mainly in view of problems
of financing the maintenance and managing the plantations. A further design aspect that may have
contributed to the large size of the commercial plantation was the over-estimation of the Economic
Rate of Return on this component (para 6.14). Moreover, social aspects and soil characteristics in
relation to the tree species were not sufficiently analyzed to select the plantation sites for the project.
4.4    A further weakness in the design of this component is associated with the production of
fuelwood on the eucalyptus and pole commercial plantations. The assumption was that large-scale
commercial plantations could be suitable for the production of fuelwood for urban consumption.
However, charcoal from these plantations cannot compete in price with smallholder or small-scale
community production because of the difficulties and cost of extraction and transport.
4.5    A critical defect of project design was the lack of rigorous market analysis and the assumption
that market deficiencies would correct themselves without project intervention. Thus, it was claimed
in the Staff Appraisal Report that "The market for eucalyptus plantation production is virtually
guaranteed..." (p.44). It was also assumed that strong demand would lead to an annual increase of
20 percent in the real price of wood products dui ing the period 1985 to 1990. Both these predictions
proved wrong.
4.6    Agroforestry and rural nurseries. This component was, in practice considerably more
successful than the commercial plantation component. Nevertheless, certain deficiencies in design
can be noted. The approach adopted was basically top-down: it was assumed that farmers had little
experience in agroforestry and that the role of the project was simply to provide them with new and
efficient technologies. Rural nurseries were to provide seedlings to farmers and communes mainly
for firewood, with little analysis of demand characteristics, of the role of trees within the farming
systems or of the need to diversify species of seedlings provided, which resulted in a muted response.
Furthermore, the technologies to be transferred to farmers were to be identified and tested in a
research program which was only initiated in the first year of the project, and which could therefore
not generate transferable results during the project implementation period.



4
4.7    Agro-pastoral support activities. This component was conceived as a pilot program of
support activities to smallholders in areas adjacent to commercial project plantations. As a pilot
activity, the allocation of US$1.5 million can retrospectively be seen to have been excessive due to
its limited expected impact.
4.8    Government Counterpart Funding.   Following the positive experience under the
predecessor project with a revolving fund for Government's contribution to the project, a new
revolving fund was established in which the Government was to deposit its contribution to the project.
The overall share of Government's contribution was, accordingly, set at a realistic level. The
proportion of IDA financing, however, was set at levels which varied from category to category, e.g.
100 percent reimbursement for labor for the establishment of new commercial plantations, but only
40 percent for Project Management Unit operating costs. An unforeseen effect of this approach was
that the Project overachieved targets set at appraisal in areas (such as new plantations and
establishment of rural nurseries) where IDA reimbursement levels were high, and underachieved in
activities such as monitoring and evaluation for which IDA reimbursement levels were low.
4.9    Risk evaluation.  In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), this focused on management
deficiencies and risk of accidental fire. Problems associated with the marketing of wood products
were not properly foreseen.
4.10   Monitoring and evaluation. A major weakness of project design was that monitoring and
evaluation activities were not proposed to be carried out as a continuous exercise by an independent
unit, but rather based on quantitative periodic activity reports from the field and on some specific
evaluation studies. As a result, the impact of the agroforestry/rural nursery and the agro-pastoral
components was not evaluated at an early stage. The project management was deprived of the tools
which would have enabled a more flexible approach to implementation in actions such as: the scaling
down of the commercial plantations, the diversification of species distributed by nurseries in response
to demand and, in particular, early recognition and identification of suitable responses to the severe
marketing problems for fuelwood and building poles.
B. Organization
4.11   The  Forestry  Department had  principal responsibility  for Project Implementation.
Management arrangements were similar in most respects to those which had been established and
worked smoothly under the First Project. A strengthened Project Management Unit (PMU) within
the Forestry Department was to remain responsible for the development and operation of rural
nurseries and the eucalyptus and pine plantations; it was also to have specific responsibility for
ensuring effective coordination of all project activities related to forest and agro-forestry applied
research activities with the National Agricultural Research Institute of Burundi (ISABU) and with the
relevant services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock for agricultural and livestock activities.
The PMU was, however, not integrated within the different technical services of the Forestry
Department as proposed in the appraisal report.



5
5.    Project Implementation
A. General
5.1    Macro-economic Environment. After a period of high growth during the 1960s and 70s,
Burundi's economic and financial situation took a turn for the worse in the early 1980s due to a sharp
deterioration in its terms of trade, expansionary fiscal and monetary policies and adverse weather
conditions. During the 1980-84 period, real GDP growth averaged just 0.2 percent per year. In
1985, a stabilization and adjustment program with support from multilateral and bilateral donors was
initiated. This program sought to eliminate the major distortions in the economy and to establish the
foundations for sustainable growth. Many of the economy's structural distortions were corrected;
disincentives to private investments were mostly eliminated and public resource management was
strengthened. Public enterprise reform, however, proceeded more slowly than expected. The supply
response to the economic reforms was weaker than anticipated due to falling terms of trade for
coffee, the political tensions in the election period, the economic problems of Burundi's neighbors
and the slow response of private investors. As a result, for 1986-1992, GDP growth per capita
averaged only 0.7 percent per annum. A sharp decline in economic activities in late 1993, early 1994
seems likely. The failed coup of October 1993 has disrupted the economy, damaged infrastructure
and other capital assets, and eroded confidence.
5.2    Policy context. The implementation of the project was influenced by the following events:
(i) the weaker than expected response to the adjustment program, which had a negative impact on the
availability of public resources and therefore precluded Government from providing sufficient
counterpart funds to the project; (ii) the new land law adopted in 1986 that recognized customary
property rights and which reduced the availability of land; and (iii) the splitting up of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock in 1988 in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MINAGRI) and
the Ministry of Land Management, Tourism and Environment (MINATE) complicated field
collaboration, which was not corrected until 1993, when the Government issued a decree to promote
such collaboration at the provincial level.
5.3    Project start-up, disbursements and project costs. The project became effective on
November 12, 1985 and closed in March 1993 after two extensions of the closing date.
Disbursements in US Dollars were close to appraisal estimates, with a minor lag after the middle of
1989. The last disbursement took place on August 5, 1993, at which time the undisbursed balance
of US$3.12 million (SDR 2.24 million) was cancelled. The undisbursed balance was entirely due
to exchange rate fluctuations. Actual project costs are estimated at US$17.8 million (US$17.0 million
estimated at appraisal), with the Government contributing US$1.1 million (US$1.8 million estimated),
the French Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration contributing US$2.1 million (US$2.6 million estimated)
and IDA contributing US$14.0 million (US$ 12.8 million estimated). Government counterpart funding
was not adequate, affecting, in particular, extension activities, and slowing down disbursements after
1989.
B. Individual Project Components
5.4   Industrial plantation component. In quantitative terms, implementation of this component
was excellent. The main problems were: (i) the non-availability of adequate soils for eucalyptus
plantations on sites pre-selected at appraisal (Makamba); (ii) a considerable number of fires; and (iii)
the difficulties in marketing products from project phase I plantations which compromised such
silvicultural operations as clearing and coppicing. Unfortunately, the latter point was not adequately
followed-up by either Government or Bank staff.



6
5.5    Agroforestry and rural nurseries. Implementation of this component was also quantitatively
very good. Project nurseries distributed large numbers of good quality seedlings to other projects,
communes, and institutions, and some large landholders. Seedlings from project-run nurseries were,
however, beyond the financial means of many smallholders and, furthermore, these nurseries were
situated too far from their farms. Moreover, private and communal nurseries were able to supply
seedlings at a much lower price. In 1990, the project therefore initiated a new approach involving
support for private nurseries (viable in coffee-producing areas where farmers have enough cash
income to buy seedlings) and small nurseries managed by groups of associated farmers, often women,
in order to produce seedlings mainly for their own use; besides being able to produce at much lower
prices, these nurseries offer employment to women and landless farmers. Some demonstration
plantations were established near rural nurseries, principally on communal land. The lack of visits
and maintenance of those plantations by the commune populations was due to the weak integration
of local people in project activities, reflecting a top-down approach.
5.6    Agro-pastoral support activities. The main objectives of this component were to alleviate
tensions between the population living around plantation sites by promoting an  integrated
development of agriculture and silviculture. The project, however, introduced models and activities
from abroad (e.g. Rwanda) to accomplish this without seeking to know the real needs of local people
through a participative approach.
5.7   In state plantations, the project mainly focused these activities on firebreak weeding with
sheep (whose meat is not locally appreciated) and not on an integrated sylvo-pastoral approach based
on local needs (example: strong clearing and pruning of pine plantations in order to increase the
timberwood/firewood ratio and the quality and quantity of grazing).
5.8    Extension services provided under this component were adversely affected by the splitting
up of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (para. 5.1) and by the lack of counterpart funding,
which precluded the project from hiring extension staff.
5.9    Research. The project was associated with the Faculty of Agronomy of the University for
farm agroforestry surveys and agro-pastoral studies, and with ISABU for tree selection. The
relationship between researchers and the project was good and resulted in the organization of an
agroforestry seminar in 1989. ISABU implemented in 1987 with the support from the International
Council for Research in Agroforestry (ICRAF) the diagnostic and design as recommended at appraisal
to identify the main traditional agroforestry systems.
6.    Project Results
6.1   Institutional strengthening of the Forestry Department. The main activities were the
creation of three regional inspectorates (one more than planned) and a documentation unit, staff
training and studies. As proposed in the SAR, the project trained principally high-level personnel
(forest engineers) through participation in 25 seminars abroad and short-term training and visits in
agroforestry, erosion control, fire protection, forest exploitation, wood use and project management.
Regular local training was organized for project monitors, particularly in agroforestry, social and
livestock-forestry integration approaches, and for charcoal workers to improve their charcoal making
techniques.  Two national seminars were organized during the project:  one on agroforestry
development (4 days) and one on participative approaches in forest management (1 day). To help
manage and define project priorities during its implementation, 36 studies were carried out, including



7
10 surveys, 8 evaluations and 18 technical studies (Table 6D). As regular follow-up by a monitoring
and evaluation unit was absent, these surveys and studies were not suitably followed-up.
6.2    The main achievements are: (i) the creation of a new generation of technically qualified
foresters for seedling production and forestry plantations; (ii) the introduction of effective cooperation
between different projects concerned with the national forest improvement effort, and the introduction
of the rural forestry approach (agroforestry); and (iii) the decentralization of the Forestry Department
through the provision of resources at each level. The strengthening of the Department was however
limited by the low integration of the project components in its technical services.
6.3   Industrial plantations component. The project achieved 150 percent of the target for
eucalyptus plantations (5,200 ha) and 160 percent for pine plantation (2,400 ha, Table 4). The
average production estimate is 65,000 m3/year of eucalyptus (fire and service wood) and 13,500
m3/year of pine timber (small wood and sawlogs, Table 6A). The state plantations are contributing
progressively to the balancing of the national wood supply/demand and to a better management of
the environment. The project roads activity contributed to better communication in the country.
However, the generally positive effects of this component was affected by the production
heterogeneity between the different sites, the high maintenance and harvesting costs, the important
fire risks and commercial problems. Industrial plantations established by the project (I and II) are
part of a long-term forestry development program. In the future, priority should be given to the
sustainable management of all existing state plantations (160,000 ha) and the development of wood
markets.
6.4    Agroforestry and rural nurseries. 112 State nurseries were established by 1990 compared
to 90 anticipated in the appraisal report. Because of the high costs of producing seedlings on project
nurseries, emphasis was placed on private sector involvement. As a result, by 1993, 114 state and
185 small private nurseries (managed by individuals or small groups) functioned. The average cost
of seedlings in private and group run nurseries are 4.4 F.Bu against 10.4 F.Bu in project nurseries
(Table 6A). By project closing in 1993, 1,505 ha of demonstration forestry plantations on communal
plots and 710 ha of agroforestry demonstrations on private and school properties were established
during the project (110 percent of the appraisal estimate, Table 4, Part III).
6.5    The main results of this component are: the initiation of agroforestry activities in Burundi
(of which there was little previous experience), the acquisition of valuable experience of nursery
organization and management, and the diffusion of good quality seedlings throughout the country.
6.6    While the impact of private and group-run nurseries was positive, the impact of project-
nurseries fell short of expectations. Because of the distance of nurseries from farms and the relatively
higher price of seedlings, few smallholders were able to buy seedlings from project nurseries. Most
of the seedlings produced in project nurseries were sold below cost to government employees or
large-scale land owners to confirm property rights. Lack of Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) led
to ignorance on the type of seedlings wanted by farmers and hence to an insufficient ability to
diversify supply in response to potential demand.
6.7    The project has defined a private nursery approach that will progressively replace the project
nurseries. There are however some difficulties: (i) insufficient coordination between the technical
activities of the two Ministries involved (MINATE, Agriculture) and between projects in regards to
pricing of seedlings, etc.; (ii) low impact of the demonstration farms, which were scarcely visited and
badly maintained and misadapted to local conditions (space and work capacity scarcity); and (iii) lack



8
of monitoring of farm plantations based on plants produced with the help of the project. At schools,
the demonstration units are better maintained and justified for educational and research purposes.
6.8    Agro-pastoral component:  The project improved animal health by dipping (850,000
animals), vaccination, aspersion (380,000 animals) and provision of medicines (44,900 doses). The
project intended to establish a network of trials and demonstrations combining livestock breeding and
reforestation for local smallholders, including the construction of 550 ha of paddocks, the production
and distribution of 34,000 agroforestry seedlings and 550 fruit trees, and seeds production for
agriculture on 35 ha of seeds centers.
6.9    This pilot activity, according to appraisal, was "not expected to generate substantial additional
outputs and to have a significant impact" at the country level. In view of this, the size of this
component appears excessive. Animal health improvement was appreciated by locals but was not
sustainable, because of the limited scope for cost recovery. The majority of paddocks were destroyed
due to lack of supervision of animals.
6.10   Research. The main results of this component are: a better knowledge of multi-purpose-tree
species for firewood production and of traditional agroforestry systems in Burundi (Annex 2, Table
18), and the improvement of productivity of plantations through appropriate tree species selection.
Financial support given by the project enabled ISABU to increase staffing levels and to allow some
agroforestry researchers to go abroad for long-term training.
6.11   Impact on environment. The project had a beneficial environmental impact in several
aspects. The pine plantation and the rural nursery component improved protection against wind and
water erosion of the soil. The poles and timber produced from the plantations will soon be available
which will decrease the need for cutting the increasingly rare local species from the remaining natural
forests. Also, the increased fuelwood supply will decrease household use of agricultural residue for
fuel, thereby improving the scope for maintaining soil fertility and crop yields.
6.12   On the other hand, the new roads established by the project will result in increased soil
erosion, especially on the steeper slopes, if they are not properly maintained. Tree plantations do
not always have the intended anti-erosion function. Eucalyptus plantations, under certain conditions,
impede herb growth. The thin canopy cover naturally formed by eucalyptus, combined with the scant
herbaceous soil cover, can actually result in increased soil erosion. Pines are useful for water control
and topsoil protection as long as plantations do not excessively increase pressure on surrounding land.
6.13   Social impact. The industrial plantations component provided employment for 2,000 people
over the last 8 years (Table 6A). Plantation firebreak, weeding, charcoal making, wood exploitation,
and nurseries could in the medium-term provide approximately 1,600 man-years of employment
annually for smallholders and landless farmers in rural areas. The roads constructed by the project
have an impact on rural trade. Rural nurseries and the agro-pastoral component provide to the
farmers a more sustainable environment, some wood and non-wood products, and revenues from the
sale of some of those products. A social risk is the likely impact of competition between state timber
production (which is estimated to supply 70 percent of demand by year 2000) and the farmers' timber
production.
6.14   Economic impact. The economic benefits of the project as a whole cannot be quantified.
It is assumed that the economic benefits of the rural nursery component will have been considerable,
although it is not possible to assess them in the absence of monitoring and evaluation activities. The



9
economic benefit of the commercial plantation component, as measured by the Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) is based on the same production benefits as in the SAR but with present prices and,
in terms of costs, all actual expenditure for direct capital investment on Phase II plantations, including
replacements, operation and maintenance costs already incurred (included under investment costs) and
estimated maintenance costs for the economic life of the Project, but net of Project administration
costs, not clearly identified in project accounts. It is substantially lower than anticipated (7 versus
24 percent, Table 6B). The explanation for this variance is almost entirely related to market factors
and inaccurate determination of economic prices. It was assumed that demand for project products
would be high. This assumption has so far proved incorrect; firewood and service wood produced
in impressive quantities at the Gakara site are failing to find a market outlet even at low prices.
There is no great discrepancy between levels of production estimated in the SAR and in the PCR.
Investment costs estimated at appraisal and actually incurred are identical, which is remarkable. The
discrepancy between the SAR and PCR estimated Economic Rates of Return is therefore almost
entirely due to the difference in economic prices of output.
6.15   Financial impact. The lower than anticipated financial impact of the commercial plantation
component (3.4 versus 9.2 percent) is due to the same market factors and wrong assumptions
concerning the likely development of financial prices for wood products which were assumed to
increase by an unrealistically high 20 percent per annum in real terms between 1985 and 1990 (Table
6C).
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1   In spite of an excellent implementation and the progressive replacement of the expatriates by
national technicians, the project must be considered non-sustainable under present conditions given:
(i) the weak integration of the project activities within the permanent technical services of the
Forestry Department; and (ii) the high recurrent costs of maintaining the states' and communes'
plantations, the difficulties in selling wood products and the great production variability between the
different sites. On the other hand, private production of seedlings and private plantations at the farm
level are more sustainable and must be promoted in the future, given their low recurrent costs for
Government as its role is reduced to that of advising farmers.
8.     Bank Performance
8.1    Problems of project design have already been described in section 4 above. Many of the
deficiencies identified were, to some extent, inevitable given the limited experience of the Burundi
forestry sector at project preparation. It can certainly be claimed that one very positive project
impact has been a much clearer understanding of the sector.
8.2    Supervision missions were too few (about 1. 1 on average per year) and staff turnover was
high. Project staff found, however, that the aide-memoires were well-documented and useful in
project implementation. Unfortunately, the main problems (markets and prices, scale of plantations
and lack of monitoring and evaluation) were not followed up more diligently after identification.
Also, the supervision missions failed to identify the effect of the different disbursement percentages
on project implementation (see comments on Table 3B).



10
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1    Project management was (and continues to be) of high quality, although too much emphasis
was placed on the achievement of physical targets. The main activities were carried out in
conformity with the SAR, except for some over-delivery concerning activities financed for 100
percent from the IDA credit (plantations, rural nurseries). The transition from expatriate to national
management took place efficiently and without disruption of project activities. The project has
benefitted from a relative stability of management staff that has contributed to improve its efficiency.
9.2    Financial control was rigorous and project accounts were, in general, adequate. Successive
audits made recommendations for improvements in accountancy procedures which were, for the most
part, adopted. Monitoring of costs for the main activities was, however, weak and not used to help
control and manage the project.  Bookkeeping was primarily directed towards reimbursement
procedures and did not, therefore, permit close analysis of expenditure in relation to types of project
activity.
9.3    One weakness at management level was, perhaps, an over literal adherence to targets set in
the appraisal document and insufficient flexibility in adapting to changing circumstances and
perceptions. This weakness arises, however, to a large extent, from the lack of monitoring and
evaluation activities.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1   The relationship between the Bank and the Government in respect to the Project was good,
as was the relationship between all other participating institutions (Fonds d'aide et de cooperation
(FAC), Voluntary Organization (AFVP), World Food Program (WFP), Burundi University, ISABU,
other ministerial departments and projects, consulting firms, etc.). Coordination and implementation
of project activities in the forestry and agro-pastoral sectors became more difficult as a result of the
separation of the Forestry Department from the Ministry of Agriculture.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1  In accordance with the appraisal report, at the beginning of the project an expatriate team (3
silviculturists and 1 rural forestry specialist) financed by the FAC was in charge of Project
management and of training Burundians. In addition, three volunteers from the AFVP worked in the
field on the rural nurseries and agroforestry component.
11.2   At the Management Unit, all technical assistants were replaced by qualified national staff in
July 1990 and in the field, only one volunteer stayed until the end of the project to promote the new
private nurseries approach. The good implementation of the project was not affected by these
changes.
11.3   Short-term consultants were utilized principally in agroforestry, livestock, forest exploitation,
charcoal-making, erosion control and cost recovery (establishment of the National Forestry Fund).
Agreements were made with ISABU to implement the research program and the Burundi University's
Agricultural Institute to carry out some agroforestry studies in a rural environment.



I1
11.4   Performance of the consultants was satisfactory. Training of counterpart staff took longer
than planned, but this was foreseen in the SAR.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1   Project Documentation and Data were generally satisfactory, with the qualifications already
expressed over the SAR, the lack of monitoring and evaluation material, and the poor quality of
analytical accounting. One Documentation Unit was created in the Forestry Department to collect
all information about the project (reports, studies, etc) and extension material (audio-visual aids,
technical papers, etc.)



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1620-BU)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments were received.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1620-BU)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related On-going IDA Credits
Credit Title                       Year of      US$ (millions)   Actual Closing
Approval                          Date
Forestry II Project (Cr. 1620-BU)                        1986           12.80          03/31/93
Agriculture Muyinga (Cr. 1857-BU)                       1988            10.00          06/30/94
Agriculture SVS (Cr. 2024-BU)                           1989            33.10          12/31/96
Coffee Sector (Cr. 2123-BU)                             1990            28.00          07/31/96
Agri-Business Promotion (Cr. 2419-BU)                    1993            3.10          03/31/99



14
Table 2: Project Timetable
Date
Planned          Revised                Actual
Preparation                        -                -                        January 1984
Appraisal                          -                -                           June 1984
Negotiations                       -                -                           May 1985
Board Approval                     -                -                           July 1985
Credit Signature                   -                -                        August 1985
Credit Effectiveness         November 1985   November 1985                November 1985
Credit Closing               September 1991   September 1992              March 31, 1993
Last Disbursement              January 1992     January 1993               August 5, 1993



15
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year   Quarter Erndin             SAR Estimates                         Actual                  Actual as X
Disbursement      Cumulative      Disbursement       Cuiltative       of Estimnte
1985             10/85                50                50              80                 80             160
03/86               50               100             910                990             990
1986             06/86               100               200             390              1,380             690
09/86              450               650             520               1.900            292
12/86              450             1,100             470              2,370             215
03/87              450             1,550             450               2,820            182
1987             06/87               450             2,000             400              3,220             161
09/87              400             2,400             500              3,720             155
12/87              400             2,800             420              4,140             148
03/88              500             3,300             620              4,760             144
1988             06/88               500             3,800             420              5,180             136
09/88              600             4,400             410              5,590             127
12/88              600             5,000             600              6,190             124
03/89              600             5,600             550              6,740             120
1989             06/89             1,000             6,600             400              7,140             108
09/89              800             7,400             350               7,490            101
12/89              800             8,200             310              7,800              95
03/90              900             9,100             520              8,320              91
1990             06/90               900            10,000             430              8,750              88
09/90              600            10,600             350              9,100              86
12/90              500            11,100             690              9,790              88
03/91              500            11,600             490             10,280              89
1991             06/91               400            12,000             520             10,800              90
09/91              800            12,800             390             11,190              87
12/91                             12,800             620             11,810              92
03/92                             12,800             410             12,220              95
1992             06/92                              12,800             430             12,650              99
09/92                             12,800             350             13,000             102
12/92                             12,800             390             13,390             105
_ _ _   03/93                            12,800            270              13,660             107
1993             06/93                              12,800             360             14,020             110
Comments:
The project was able to acquire momentum more rapidly than envisaged at appraisal, due to the fact that
personnel and structures were already in place from Phase I. From 1989, however, the project was unable
to disburse at the accelerated rhythm envisaged. This was due mainly to constraints imposed by
availability of counterpart funding. In consequence, two prolongations were agreed.
The additional 10 percent disbursed in dollar terms is due to the appreciation of the SDR relative to US$.



16
Table 3: Credit Disbursements
B. Disbursements by Category
Category                                                            Estimate                Actual            Actual as X
(Credit Agreement)                             of Estimte
l_____________________...............                                                00...............
1. Civil Works Plantation Development                                       797.5               1,762.3              221
2. Vehicles, Equipment, Materials                                         3,574.1               5,041.6              141
3. Consultants & Experts Services:  Surveys,                                 797.5                 939.4             124
-Training, Audits, M&E
4. Labor for Ptantations
(a) Establishment of New Plantations                                   3,377.2               5,230.5              155
(b) Maintenance of Plantations                                           492.3                 465.5              95
5. Operating Costs of Project Management Unit                             1,289.8                  294.0              23
6. Refunding of Project Preparation Advance                                 492.3                  240.6              49
7. Unallocated                                                            1,979.1                    0
TOTAL                                                                    12,799.8              14,023.9              110
Comments
During project implementation it was agreed that funds under Category 7 be allocated to Plantation
Development (Categories 1, 2 and 4.a.). It is noteworthy that where the Credit Agreement stipulated
reimbursement at 90 percent or 100 percent (Categories 1,2,3 and 4.a.) financial targets were exceeded.
Significant under-achievement of financial targets occurred where lower rates of reimbursement were
stipulated. This had adverse consequences for Category 5, in particular, which included costs for such
activities as Monitoring and Evaluation.



17
Table 4: Project Implementation
Indicators                              Unit           AppraisaL            Actual/PCR           Actual
Estimate 1/          Estimate 2/         Appraisal X
Institutional Strengthening of the Forestry
Departmnt
Creation of a Planning & Monitoring Unit                       Number                    1                     0               0
Creation of Regional Forest Inspectorates                                                2                     3             150
Strengthening of the Project Management Unit                                             1                     1             100
Technical Assistaffce
Experts                                                       man/year                 20                     16              84
VoLunteers                                                    man/year                  15                    12.6            84
Locat Staffing
Headquarters                                                   Number                  31                    44              142
Field                                                                                 266                   201              76
Co  ercial Plantations
Area of Eucalyptus plantation 3/                                  ha                3,500                 5,280              150
Area of Pine pLantation 3/                                        ha                1,500                 2,395              160
Fire breaks 4/                                                km/20 ha                   1                     1.99         199
km                  250                   763             300
Roads                                                          km/100                    1
ha
km                   50
Agroforestry
Nurseries in 1989-90                                           Number                  90                   112             124
Nurseries in 1993 5/                                           Nunber                    -                  299
Production of seedlings 6/                                     miLLion                  17.5                 27.8           160
Superficies planted in private and commune plots 7/              ha                 6,750                 7,350             109
Demonstration plots 8/                                           ha                 2,000                 2,215             110
Agro-sylvo pastoral activities
Zones                                                          Number                    4                     4             100
Participants/zones                                             Number                 500                 1,600             320
1/      Based on five years.
2/       Based on seven and a half years.
3/       See Annex 2, Tables I and 2.
4/       See Annex 2, Tables 1 and 3.
5/       Including state, communal and group run nurseries.
6/       See Annex 2, Table 12.
7/       14.7 million seedlings have been sold to farmers or produced by themselves in 8
years; the total planted area is based on an average of 2,000 trees/ha in equivalent full
plantation (like appraisal report).
8/       See Annex 2, Table 15.



Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
raisal Estimates                                                               Actuat Costs
Local   FLreign      I Totat       Locat   Ftreign    |TotaL         Local   F reiqn         Total      Local    [oreiin    I Total
(FBUXi mitlion)                  (USS million)                            (FBU'OOO)                            (USj'000)
A. Nurseries/Agroforestry                       249.0        25.2       274.2        2.1         0.2        2.3       272.1       138.5       410.5        1.8         0.9          2.7
B. Comnercial Piantation                        422.6       156.6       579.2        3.5         1.3        4.8       591.8      174.7        766.5        3.8          1.1         4.8
C. Maintenance of existing plantations           18.0       35.0         53.0        0.2         0.3        0.5       389.3      112.0        501.3        2.6         0.7          3.3
0. Research                                                  29.3        29.3                    0.2        0.2         8.0         0.0         8.0        0.1         0.0          0.1
E. Agro-sylvo Pastoral Program                   75.2       94.0        169.2        0.6         0.9        1.5        52.0       15.6         67.6        0.3         0.1          0.4
F. Institutional Devetopment & Project           74.7      365.4        440.1        0.6         2.9        3.5       440.8      542.8       983.7         2.7         3.7          6.4
Administration
G. Scholarships & Speciatized Training                      20.0         20.0                    0.2        0.2         0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
Total 8aseline Costs                            839.5      725.5      1,565.0        7.0         6.0       13.0    1,753.9       983.6    2,737.5         11.3         6.5         17.8       co
Physical Contingencies                           82.6       48.1        130.7        0.7         0.4        1.1                                 0.0        0.0         0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                             239.9       105.6       345.5        2.0         0.9        2.9                                 0.0        0.0          0.0          0.0
Totat Project Costs                           1,162.0      879.2    2,041.2          9.7         7.3       17.0    1,753.9       983.6    2,737.5         11.3         6.5         17.8
Notes:
1. Actual costs include salaries for volunteers paid by the Association francaise des volontaires du progres (AFVP).
2. Actual costs include World Food Program rations distributed to laborers.
3. Actual costs include salaries for Technical Assistance paid by the Fonds d'aide et de cooperation.
4. Project records do not distinguish between components F and G.
Comments:
Actual costs expressed in FBU are based on project annual accounts with the addition of FAC and AFVP contributions converted at prevailing exchange
rates (period average for each year). Actual costs expressed in US$ are based on the conversion of FBU costs at the average exchange rate for each
year.



19
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Financing
PLanrred (SAR)           %Actuial 
IDA                     12,800               75                14,079                79
FAC                      2,600               15                 2,005                11
AVP                                                               384                 2
WPF                                                               321                 2
Government               1,800                10                 1,056                6
TOTAL                   17,000                                  17,845
Comments:
The increased IDA share in financing is due to the appreciation of the SDR against the US$. The
reduced Government share is due to the depreciation of the Burundi Franc (FBU) against both the SDR
and the US$, and not, in terms of the FBU, to lower than planned levels of Government financing.



20
Table 6: Projects Results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicators             tinits          Appraisal      Estimted        Estimted at
Estimete       at PCR         full Develont
Coercial plantation
Eucalyptus production
(firewood)
Annual growth                  m3/ha/year           9             10.3
Production                     m3/ha          31,500          65,000 2/
Pine Production
Sawlogs + smaLtLogs            m3/ha/year          10              8.3
Sawlogs                        m3/ha/year           7.2            5.65
SawLogs                        m3/year        10,000          13,500                27,000 1./
Rurat Nurseries
Production II/                    m3/an           87,500         95,650
SeedLings costs 12/               FBU/unit             8.8            4.4
Social Benefits 13/               man/year             -          1,164
2/      Our estimate does not consider the fire risk which is quite high for both Eucalyptus
and Pine plantations.
IQ/     Between 2013 and 2018 in m3/year of logs.
11/     Productivity of 10 m3/year for farm  woodlots and demonstrations.
12/     See Annex 6.
13/     Man-years induced by commercial plantation in countryside after the project
(exploitation and weeding of fire breaks).



21
Table 6: Projects Results
B. Economic Impact
SAR          PCR
Economic Rate of Return:          24%          7%
The main assumptions underlying the economic analysis are as below:
(a)    Staff Appraisal Report
(i)    Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculated only on new  commercial plantation
component, since benefits of other components not quantifiable.
(ii)   Economic life of Project 32 years, that is till clear-felling.
(iii)   Labor shadow-priced at 75 percent of then daily rate (FBU 100).
(iv)   Standard Conversion Factor= 0.8.
(v)    Economic values for standing timber:
FBU/m3    US$/m3
Fuelwood               8,818          73.5
Service wood           8,818          73.5
Saw wood (eucalyptus)   8,818         73.5
Saw wood (pine)       30,000         250.0
(vi)   Without project situation: none.
(vii)  Costs included all expenditures for direct capital investments, operation and maintenance
costs related to the commercial plantations plus 65 percent of Project administration
costs. Costs included physical contingencies estimated at 10 percent, but excluded price
contingencies, taxes and duties.
(b)    Project Completion Report
(i)    As SAR.
(ii)    As SAR.



22
(iii)   Labor shadow- priced at 125 percent of current daily rate of FBU 120.
(iv)   Standard Conversion Factor=0.9.
(v)    Economic values for standing timber:
FBU/m3    US$/m3
Fuelwood                2,000            8.4
Service wood            2,000            8.4
Saw wood (eucalyptus)   2,500           10.5
Saw wood (pine)         4,500           18.9
(vi)   As SAR.
(vii)   Costs include all actual expenditures on Phase II commercial plantations (including
replacements, maintenance, etc.) excluding taxes and duties, plus estimated maintenance
costs during the economic life of the Project. Project Administration costs are excluded.
Comments:
I.    The SAR assumption that casual labor on plantations could be shadow-priced at 75 percent proved
ill-founded. The Project met considerable difficulties in attracting labor even at the improved daily rate
of FBU 120, with WFP rations in addition. Other projects in comparable areas now find it necessary
to pay a daily rate of FBU 150 in order to attract sufficient labor. As a general rule it is dangerous to
assume that the opportunity cost for labor in forestry plantations is low simply because rural
underemployment exists.
2.    The official valuation of the FBU is now more closely aligned to its dollar value than at the time
of the SAR. The Standard Conversion Factor has therefore been adjusted to 0.9.
3.    The economic values imputed for stan.ding timber in the SAR were very high. Coefficients for
converting wood at the point of sale to standing timber appear to have been incorrectly applied (see SAR,
p.49). The economic value of fuelwood in kerosene equivalent is now estimated at FBU 3800/m3 (see
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAOTCP), Burundi: Programme de Gestion des resources
naturelles et de 1'environnement, February 1992). However, the procedure of imputing an economic
value for fuelwood on the basis of kerosene equivalent is suspect in the Burundian context for two
reasons:
(i)    While there are severe localized shortages of fuelwood, the pressure on resources
accessible to Bujumbura appears to have been overestimated, while the quantities supplied
from small-scale on-farm or community woodlots appear to have been underestimated.
The prices of fuelwood and charcoal in Bujumbura have risen more slowly in recent
years than the consumer price index.



23
(ii)    The true alternative to fuelwood in Burundi is not kerosene but peat, of which there are
considerable reserves. Projects to promote the use of peat instead of fuelwood have met
with limited success, another indication that on a national level the shortage of fuelwood
has perhaps been overestimated.
4.     The economic price of fuelwood has therefore been adjusted to FBU 2000/m3, still 2.5 times the
level of its financial price, but a ratio consistent with the peat equivalent (see ESMAP, Report No. 9215-
BU, p.31).
5.    It is considered that the financial and economic prices of sawwood coincide in view of the ready
availability of imports from Zaire. This would also be the case of service wood, but the economic price
of fuelwood has been retained for that of service wood, since the latter is higher.
6.    It may be concluded that great care should be used in justifying firewood production in large-scale
commercial plantations remote from consumption centers on the basis of economic prices derived from
kerosene equivalent. In the case of the present project, the procedure made the investment appear
attractive; in reality, the Project is finding it difficult to give away the firewood produced.
7.    In the SAR no opportunity cost was imputed to land to be reforested, on the grounds that it was
either unused at that time or only used for rough grazing. In the context of a country with heavy and
increasing pressure on land resources the opportunity cost of even rough pasture land can be relatively
high, given that it is also an important off-farm source of organic material for fertilization.
8.    It is not possible to iterate precisely the procedure of the SAR with respect to costs in estimating
the Economic Rate of Return, since Project accounts, while satisfactory in relation to expenditure,
reimbursements, etc., were not sufficiently analytical to permit clear distinction between costs of
institutional support and strengthening, training, etc., and costs of Project Administration. The PCR
Economic Rate of Return has therefore been calculated on the basis of the same benefits as in the SAR
and, in terms of costs, all actual expenditure for direct capital investment on Phase II plantations,
including replacements, operation and maintenance costs already incurred (included under investment
costs) and estimated maintenance costs for the economic life of the Project, but net of Project
administration costs. Clearly, if these were included the resulting Economic Rate of Return would be
even less favorable than the present.
9.     There is no great discrepancy between levels of production estimated in the SAR and in the PCR,
while the investment costs estimated at appraisal and actually incurred are identical. The discrepancy
between the SAR and PCR estimated Economic Rates of Return is therefore almost entirely due to the
difference in economic prices of output.
10.    Supporting tables for the economic analysis are shown in Annex 1.



24
Table 6: Projects Results
C. Financial Impact
SAR          PCR
Financial Rate of Return:         9.2%          3.4%
Comments:
1.    The SAR financial analysis was based on over-optimistic assumptions with regard to markets and
prices. It was assumed that strong demand would lead to a 20 percent annual increase in the real price
of wood products. Stumpage rates used in the SAR and as actually applied are shown below:
SAR        PCR
FBU/m3
Fuelwood (eucalyptus)      1,400        800
Fuelwood (pine)             700           0
(selling price less than cost of extraction)
Service wood (eucalyptus)    3,000    1,500
Saw wood (eucalyptus)      3,000      2,500
Saw wood (pine)            4,100      4,500
2.    On the above basis it was assumed that from 1990 production from Phase I plantations would
finance maintenance operations for both Phase I and Phase II plantations and additionally make a
substantial contribution to the Forestry Department Budget. In reality, up to July 1993 revenue from
Phase I plantations has been negligible.
3.    Supporting tables for the financial analysis are shown in Annex I.



25
Table 6: Projects Results
D. Studies
Purpose as defined at Appraisal     Number of Studies realized during
the Project
1. Surveys                                           10
2. Evaluation studies                                 8
3. Technical studies                                 18
Comments:
The surveys mainly concern: agroforestry (6), participative forest management (1), wood supply (2),
and forest inventory (1). The evaluation studies relate to the agro-forestry activities (3), the agro-sylvo-
pastoral component (4) and the plantations (1). The technical studies concern agro-forestry (5), erosion
control (1), seeds improvement (2). forest management (5), forest-livestock integration (1), charcoal
making (1), and fruit plantations (3).



26
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Covenant Credit                          Subject                                        Stetus
Agreement (Section)
3.01 (c)               Borrower to provide adequate budgetary             CompLied with.
allocations for the carrying out of the
project.
3.02                   Procurement of goods, works and consuLtant         Complied with.
services to be made according to ScheduLe 3
of the Credit Agreement.
4.01 (b)               Borrower to furnish to IDA, no later than          Complied with.
six months after end of each year, a
certified copy of project audit reports.
4.01 (c)               Borrower to ensure auditors provide a              CompLied with.
separate opinion as to whether the proceeds
of credit withdrawaL on the basis of SOEs
have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided.
4.02                   Government to cause Project Management to          Generally complied with, although
review annuaLLy the selLing prices at             subsidies to farmers remain somewhat
Levels to cover at Least one half of              higher than one half of production
production costs for saLes to farmers and         costs.
all costs for saLes to commerciaL buyers.
4.05                   Borrower to exchange views with IDA on             PartLy comptied with, but marketing
borrower's proposals for the processing,          issues stiLL to be resolved.
marketing and pricing of the products of
the pine plantations.
Schedule 4             AnnuaL Work Programs approved by Director          Complied with.
GeneraL of AgricuLture to be submitted to
IDA for approvaL by September 30 of each
year.



27
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Fiscal Year
Task             1983 1984 1 1985 1 1986 1 1987 1 19881 19891 1990 I     1991 1 1992 1  1993Tota
..... Staff Weeks .
Preparation/Pre-appraisat  0.3   68.1        -          -       -   .              .      .         .          68.4
Appraisal                     -      2.4   38.4         -       -      -       -      -       -           -    40.8
Negotiation                   -      -       3.2            -      -           -          -       -      -      3.2
SubrTotal                    0.3   70.5   41.6          -       -      -       -      -       -      -        112.4
Supervision                   -      -       -      7.1    7.9    7.9    6.3    6.1    5.0    9.5    0.5  50.3
TOTAL                        0.3   70.5   41.6    7.1    7.9    7.9    6.3    6.1    5.0    9.5    0.5 162.7
B. Missions
Stage of          Year         Number of  |Days in Field   Specialization   Performence RatingT    Types of
Project Cycle         I            Persons    I                   represented 14/        Status 15/    I Problee  16/
Preparation         1 1984                 4              23          A,L,F,E                  -                  -
AppraisaL          VI 1984                 5              21         0,F,V,A,O
Supervision
1           X 1985                  1              15              F                   1
2           V 1986                  1              10              F                   1                   M
3           Xil 1986                2              17            F, E                  1                   T
4            III 1988               2               8            F, E                  1                   M
5           Xii 1988                2              12            0, F                  1                  M
6           X 1989                  1               8              F                    -                  M
7           Vil 1990                1              21              F                   2                   M
8            1 1991                 1              11              F                   2                   N
9           Vill 1991               2              12            E, F                  2                 M, T
10           XI 1992                 1               5             E                    2                  M
14/     E=Economist; L=Livestock Specialist; A=Agronomist; I=Rural Engineer;
P=Pasture Specialist; R=Road Specialist; F=Forester; O=Others.
15/      1=Problem  free or minor problems; 2=Moderate problems; 3=Major problems.
16/     F=Financial; M=Managerial; T=Technical; P=Political; O=Others.



Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 2: Local Costs in FBU'OOO
1985         1986         1987          1988        1989         1990         1991         1992         1993         TOTAL
A. Nurseries/ Agro-Forestry    12,407          45,935       37,875        43,668      21,276      35,909        31,930       35,180        7,919       272,098
-B. Comeercial Ptantation           7,959       53,244       68,496        85,938      801,53      108,336       66,684       102,652      18,343       591,804
C  Maintenance of Existing       36,543        39,695       39,078       64,522       40,450      77,345       34,035        46,351       11,244       389,264
Plantations
D. Research                           887           887          887          887          887         887          887           887         887         7,982
E  Agro-Silvo-Pastorat             1,154        4,937       10,913        10,111       6,119       5,981         4,456        5,540        2,773        51,984                  Co
Programn
F  Institutional                  6,070        51,305       52,454       34,301       47,579      48,193       48,300        68,618       73,997      440,817
Devetopment and Project
Adnin-.                                                                                                       .
TOTAL                            65,021       196,003      209,703      239,426       96,463      76,652      196,291       259,227     115,163      ,753,949



Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 3: Total Costs in FBUIOOO
1985          1986          1987           1988          1989          1990           1991          1992         1993          TOTAL
A. Murseries/ Agro-Forestry         17544         57,867        56,839         60,781        39488       _ 54,786        60,289         50726        12229         410,549
B. Connerciat Ptantation            8,276         60,788        85,587        100,362       110,849       141,063       106,074        129,969       23,517       766,485
C. Kaintenance of Existing         38,876         46,157        50,100         75,908        56,972       101,770        57,686         59,424       14,416       501,309
Ptantationisf
D. Research                            887           887            887           887           887           887            887           887          887          7,982
E. Agro-Silvo-Pastorat               1,228         5,741        13,991         11,895         8,618         7,870          7,552         7,103        3,555        67,553
Progrm.                            _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _
F. Institutional Development       32,624.12   128,047.8    147,502.4    116,715.6    144,702.9            80,055.24   111,289         129,233.3    93,479.76    983,659            U0
and Project Adhin.                                           I_I___I_I_I_I
TOTAL                              99,435        299,488       354,906        366,549       361,517       386,431       343,786        377,342      148,084     2,737,537



Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
TabLe 4:  Annu81 Exchange Rates (USS1=FBU)
1985           1986             1987             1988            1989    _       1990             1991            1992            1993
Year Average          120.7           114.2           123.6            140.4           158.7            171.3           181.5           208.3           238.7
Tabte 5: Foreign Costs in USS'OOO
_   1985      1986        1987       1988         1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        TOTAL
A. Nurseries/ Agro Forestry          43        104         153         122         115         110        156          75          18           896
B- ComDercial Plantation              3         66         138         103         193         191        217         131          22          1064
C  Maintenance of Existing           19         57          89          81         104         143        130          63          13           699
Plantation                        __
D. Research                           0          0           0           0           0           0          0           0           0             0
E. Agro-SiLvo-Pastorat                1          7          25          13          16          11         17           8           3           100
Prograe
F. Institutional Devetlqenrt        220       672          769         587         612         186        292         291          82          3711
and Project Admin.                _         I_I                    I           I           I_I_I_II
TOTAL                               285       906        1,175         905       1,040         641        813         567         138          6470



Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 6: Local Costs in USS'OOO
1985      1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992         1993        TOTAL
A. Nurseries/ Agro-Forestry         103       402          306         311         134         210         176         169          33         1,844
B- C   ercial Plantation             66       466          544        612          505         632         367         493          77
C. Maintenance of Existing          303       348          316        460          255         452         188         223          47         2,590
Plantations                                           I
D. Research                           7          8           7           6           6           5           5           4           4             52
E. Agro-SiLvo-Pastoral               10        43           88          72          39          35          25          27          12           349
Progrm_
F. Institutional Development        50        449         424         244          300         281         321         329         310         2,710
and Project Acdin.                         I          I           I           I       _I                                       I_I
TOTAL                               539     1,716       1,697       1,705        1,238       1,615       1,081       1,244         482        11,318



Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 7: Totat Costs in USSOOO
1985       1966         1987        1988        1989        1990       1991        1992        1993        TOTAL
A. Nurseries/ Agro-Forestry         145         507          460         433        249         320         332         244          51        2,740
B. Coaierciat Ptantation             69         532         692         715         698         823         584         624          99        4,837
C- Naintenance of Existirg          322         404         405         541         359         594         318         285          60        3,289
Plantations
D  Research                           7           8            7           6          6           5           5           4           4           52
E- Agro-SiLvo-Pastorat               10          50          113         85          54          46          42          34          15          449
Progra                                       __ _ _ _                                                                             _ _ _ _
F. Institutional DeveLopment        270      1,121        1,193         831         912         467         613         620        392         6,421
and Project Admin.                           I_I_I_I_I_I_I
TOTAL                               824      2,622        2,871       2,611       2,278       2,256       1,894       1,812         620       17,788



Annex 1: Economic and Financial Analysis
Tabte 8: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                                                 Actual Costs
Local    Foreign    Total         Local  I Foreign | Total        Local  | Freign|  Total        Local   |Foreign|  Total
FBU mn                        USS million _                      FBU mn                     USS million
A. Nurseries/Agroforestry                       249.0        25.2      274.2         2.1       0.2        2.3    272.1      138.5    410.5          1.8       0.9      2.7
B. Commercial Plantation                        422.6       156.6      579.2         3.5        1.3       4.8    591.8      174.7    766.5          3.8       1.1      4.8
C. Maintenance of Existing Plantations           18.0        35.0       53.0         0.2       0.3        0.5    389.3      112.0    501.3          2.6       0.7      3.3
D. Research                                                  29.3       29.3                   0.2        0.2       8.0       0.0        8.0        0.1       0.0      0.1
E. Agro-silvo-pastoral Program                   75.2        94.0      169.2         0.6       0.9        1.5      52.0      15.6      67.6         0.3      0.1       0.4
F. Institutional Development & Project           74.7      365.4       440.1         0.6       2.9        3.5    440.8    542.8    983.7            2.7      3.7       6.4
Ackninist rat ion                                                                                                        _
G. Scholarships & Specialized Training                       20.0       20.0                   0.2        0.2       0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Baseline Costs                            839.5       725.5     1585.0         7.0       6.0       13.0   1753.8    983.6   2737.5           11.3      6.5      17.8
Physical Contingencies                           62.6        48.1      130.7         0.7       0.4        1.1                            0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                             239.9       105.6      345.5         2.0       0.9        2.9                            0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs                            1162.0       879.2    2041.2          9.7       7.3       17.0   1753.9    983.6   2737.5           11.3      6.5      17.6



34
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 1: Forestry II Plantations Areas
Total plantations (ha) - 7675 ha
Species                    1          2           3          4           5           6          7           8
85/86      86/87       87/88       88/89      89/90       90/91       91/92        93
Eucalyptus                505         791        939         804         694         842        412        293
Pin                       518         107        435         437         106        457         189        146
TotaL                    1023         898        1374       1241         800        1299        601        439
Sources:  Project staff according to planted seedlings.
Eucalyptus Plantations (ha)
Location                      1         2         3         4         5         6         7        8       Total
85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93
500                                                                           500
Gakara-Gahuni                505       175       119                                                       799
400      500       800       800                                   2500
Mabanda-Vugizo                         284       340       272       105       133                         1134
200      300                                                        500
Nord Muisirwa                          332       480       532       589      709       412       293     3347
Total Appraisal Estimate   500         600       800       800      800                                   3500
Total Project                505       791       939       804      694       842       412       293     5280
Pine Plantations (ha)
Location                      1         2         3         4         5         6        7         8       Total
________ __   85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93  1           II
500      500                                                                 1000
Vyanda                       518         7        68                                                       593
500                                                       500
Vugizo                                 100       356       407       106       132                        1101
Nord Mwnirwa                                     11        30                325   |  189   |  146   | 701
Total Appraisal Estimate    500        500       500                                                      1500
Total Project                518       107       435      437        106      457       189       146     2395
Comments:  Plantation areas are 150 percent of appraisal estimate.  Eucalyptus plantations in
Mabanda cannot grow properly because of the termites, the dry soiLs and the weeds. It was not
possible to plant 2,500 ha in Mabanda like mentioned in appraisal.



35
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 2: Eucalyptus Ptantations Productivity CLasses (ha)
PLantation year            1         2        3         4        5         6         7        8
85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93
I.   Gakara-Gahuni       354       123        83
Nord Mumirwa                   33       48        53        59       71        41        29
354      156       131       53        59        71       41        29
II.  Gakara-Gahuni       151        52        36
Mabanda                       114      136       109        42       53
Nord Munirwa                  200      288       320      353       425       248       177
151      366       460      429       395      478       248       177
III. Mabanda                       170       204      163        63       80
Nord Mumirwa                   99      144       159      177       213       123        87
i  269      348       322      240       293       123        87
Total                     505      791       939      804       694       842      412       293
Comments:
Productivity class->                  1 17/            II           III         Total
Gakara-Gahuni              X               70            30
ha             560           239                       799
Mabanda-Vugizo             %                             40            60
ha                           454          680         1134
Nord Mixnirwa              %               10            60            30
Mahande-Buhayira           ha             115           691          345         1151
Nord Mwni rwa              %               10            60           30
Kirinzi-BukinanYana       ha              220          1316          660         2196
Total                   _         895 18/              2700         1685         5280
17/     Productivity class I =  20 m3fha/y; class II =  12 m3/ha/y; class III =  4 m3/ha/y.
18/      Average productivity for eucalyptus =  10.8 m3/ha/y.



36
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 3: Pine Plantations Produictivity Classes (ha)
Plantation Year         1         2          3          4         5          6         7         8
______________ 85/86      86/87      87/88     88/89      89/90     90/91      91/92       93
Vvanda                 264          4        34
Vugizo                             20        71         81        21         26
264        24        105        81         21        26
Vyanda                 254          3        34
Vugizo                             40       142        163        43         53
Nord  uIumirwa                               11         30                  325       189       146
254        43        187       193         43       378        I8n       146
Vugizo                            40        143        163        42         53
40       143        163        42         53    _          ______:
Total                  518        107       435       437        106        457       189       146
Comments:
Productivity CLass->             I 19/        II         III        Total
Vyanda                    %         51         49
ha       302         291                    593
Vugizo                    %         20         40          40
ha       220         441        440        1101
Nord Munirwa              %                   100
ha                   701                    701
Tota l                   20/       522        1433        440        2395
j1/      Productivity class I =  12 m3/ha/y; class II =  8 m3fha/y; class III =  5 m'/ha/y.
2Q/      Average productivity for pine =  8.3 m31haly.



37
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 4: Clearing Scheme for Pine Class 1 (12 U'/ha/an)
Age       Before cLrg  Z       tr/ha           Clearing 22/           Rate X      After cirg          Prui             M/D
tr/ha       m3                            m3                           tr/ha     m3        m      tr/ha
________   ________   ________   ______      FW        SW        TW
0        1100     _   =  .   _
6                      _        -2 -               -0                                                                 i
8        1000         72       soo       30                             50      500       42        6      250        75
14        500         210      200       44-                  30        30      300      140                 -        62
28        300         236      300       46                  190                   0        0                         334
116  _  220 _  _ __  
Rem.:    FW:  firewood; SW:  saw wood; TW:  timber wood.
Comments:  Without weeding of firebreaks and plantations.
Age               Operations                 Unit/MD 23/       Unit/ha 21/        MD/ha
1    Weeding 2 operations                                                   l        40
1 to 28 Firebreak weeding                        80 MD/km         0.25 km/ha            20
2    Weeding 1 operation                                                             20
6&8   Pruning                                                                         15
8     I clearing - Cutting                  25 trees/MD        500 trees             20
8     I cLearing - Harvesting 24/            0.75 m3/MD          30 m3               40
14   Il  cLearing - Cutting                  20 trees/MD        200 trees            10
14   Il  cLearing - Harvesting               0.75 .3/MO           70 r3              52
28    Last cLearing - Cutting                15 trees/MD        300 trees            20
28    Last clearing - Harvesting             0.75 m3/MD          236 m3             314
21/      According to report on Vyanda experience (Vauron, July 90).
22/      Distribution between FW  and TW  according to DDC  report on Burundi 48/91 AF-
BDI 24 and mission estimates.
2./      According to WB Burundi Forestry Project Phase I experiences (see 21/), ISABU
results (Annual report 1987, ISABU, 52 to 59), Kibira Burundi project experiences
(Arbonnier, Programme des travaux forestiers, 1993, INECN).
24/      Harvesting: distances between plantations and the road: less than 200m.



38
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 5: Ctearing Scheme for Pine CLass 1 (12 a?IhaIan)
Uith Optimization of Timber Uood Production
Age     Before cirg 25/      tr/ha           Clearing 26/           Rate %      After ctrg          Pruning         M/D
tr/ha       m3                            m3                          tr/ha     m3        m      tr/ha
FW       SW        TW                                         I
0      1100              I                                           40      600                  2      600
6      1000         40       4000 27/                           _                                 5      400       19
8      600          65             _                                                              7      350       15
14      600        210       250       20                   60        40      350      130                          85
28      350        260       350        50  _  _           210  __    _         0    _0                           369
=I =                              =        70        =        270        =         =        =        =        =        =
Rem.:  FW:  firewood; SW:  saw wood; TW:  timber wood.
Comments: Without weeding of firebreaks and ptantations.
Age                Operations                  Unit/MD          Unit/ha        MD/ha
1     Weeding 2 operations                                                      40
1 to 28  Firebreak weeding                      80 MD/km        0.25 km/ha          20
2    lWeeding 1 operation                                                        20
6,8  & 14 Pruning            _  _                                                    15
6     1I clearing - Cutting                100 trees/MD      400 trees            4
6     1 cLearing - Harvesting               0.75 m3/MD          0 m3              0
14    II clearing - Cutting                 20 trees/MD       200 trees          10
14    II c(earing - Harvesting              0.75 m3/MD          80 m3            60
28    Last cLearing - Cutting               15 trees/MD       350 trees          23
28    Last clearing - Harvesting            0.75 m3/MD          260 m3          346
25/      According to research proposals (Rapport annuel 1987, ISABU  p. 58, scheme 2) and
Vauron (July, 90) for productivity class 1.
2/       Commercialization of pine firewood is hardly possible; this clearing scheme is
designed to focus the production on timber and to minimize the production of
firewood.
27/      The green little trees are left on the ground (no harvesting costs); they are easy to cut.



39
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 5:  Clearing Scheme for Pine Class II (8 vI/ha/an)
Age      Before cLrg        tr/ha            Clearing            Rate %     After cLrg          Pruning        M/D
tr/ha      m3                           m3   _                     tr/ha     m3       m      tr/ha
FW       SW       TW
0     1000    _
6     1000                                                                                    2     900        15
8      600                                          1                                         6     350        15
14      900        140     500       30                  15        55     400       95                         80
28      400        241     400       63                 148                  0        0                       308
_ ______   ________ ______   93                   163
Rem.:  RW:  firewood; SW:  saw wood; TW:  timber wood.
Coimnents: Without weeding of firebreaks and plantations.
Age               Operations                 Unit/MD         Unit/ha       MD/ha
1    Weeding 2 operations                                                    40
1 to 32  Firebreak weeding                     80 MD/km       0.25 km/ha        20
2     Weeding 1 operation                                                    20
6 & 9   Pruning  _                                                -             15
14    1 clearing - Cutting                25 trees/MD       500 trees         20
14    I clearing - Harvesting              0.75 m3/MD         45 m3           60
32    Last cLearing - Cutting              15 trees/MD      400 trees         27
32    Last clearing - Harvesting           0.75 m3/MD         211 m3         281
Sources:  Project report on Vyanda (Vauron, July 90, p. 38).



40
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 6: Clearirg Scheme for Pine CLass II[ (5 m3Iha/an)
Age       Before ctrg        tr/ha             Clearing             Rate X      Afte  cirg          Pruning_        M/D
tr/ha       m3                            m3                          tr/ha      m3       m      tr/ha
FW       SW        TW
0   1   500                __ _  _            _  _ _ _  __ _ _ _  _ _ _  _
9                                                 == =  = = -2                                           400        15
15              _  _ _ _     _ _ _             _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _        5     300        15
30      450         150      150       20                   20        25      300      110         7      300       74
45      300         241      300       80   I          1  105        100        0         0                        339
== I   I   100        125_ _-                                                             =     
Rem.:  FW:  firewood; SW:  saw wood; TW:  timber wood.
Comments: Without weeding of firebreaks and plantations.
Age   I            Operations                  Unit/MD           Unit/ha         MD/ha
1     Weeding 2 operations                                                         40
1 to 28  Firebreak weeding                       80 MD/km         0.25 km/ha          20
2     Weeding 1 operation                                                          20
|9,15,30  Pruning                               _                      -              15
30     I clearing - Cutting                  25 trees/MD        150 trees            6
30     1 cLearing - Harvesting               0.75 m3/MD           40 m3             53
45     Last cLearing - Cutting               15 trees/MD        300 trees         200
45     Last clearing - Harvesting            0.75 m3/MD           185 m3           139
Sources:  Project report on Vyanda (Vauron, July 90, p. 39) for class IlIl.



41
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 7:  Sylviculture Scheme for Eucalyptus Class 1 (20 o'/ha/an) 28/
Age      Before coppicing                m3 28/                Rate X      M/D
tr/ha       m3SW                             T
6       1100         120        90         30        _          100        182
12      1000         150        113        37                   100        227
18       900         120         90         30 -                100        182
24       700          90         67         23             _   100         136
TotaL   _     _        480        360       120         =         =
Rem.:  RW:  firewood; SW:  saw wood; TW:  timber wood.
Comments: Without weeding of firebreaks and pLantations.
Age            Operations            Unit/MD       Unit/ha          MD/ha
1     Weeding 2 operations                                             80
1 to 28  Firebreak weeding            80 MD/km    0.25 km/ha              20
2     Weeding 2 operations                                             80
6 or 12  Coppicing I or III          0.66 m3/ha    120 trees              182
12     Coppicing II               0.66 m3/MD    150 trees             227
24     Coppicing IV               0.66 m3/MD    90 trees               136
Sources:  Project report on Gakara and Gahuni (Vauron and Vernay, July 90), research results (triaL
10/03) and mission appreciations about the quaLity of the Forestry II plantations site.
28/      The appraisal report (p. 85), consider that 75%  of eucalyptus wood will be firewood
and 25% will be service wood like pools.



42
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 8:  SylvicuLture Schete for Eucalyptus Class II (12 mn/ha/an)
Age       Before crg                 m3              Rate X   M/D
tr/ha      m3
tr_ ha_    M3_       FW      SW      TW
8     1100         96       72       24              100      145
16                120       90       30               100     182
24                 96       72       24               100     145
32    _ _          72       54        18              100     109
Total   __a __I _    3814    288       96                     1
Rem.:  FW:  firewood; SW:  saw wood; TW:  timber wood.
Comments:  Without weeding of firebreaks and plantations.
Age           Operations           Unit/MD       Unit/ha         MD/ha
1     Weeding 2 operations                                          80
1 to 32  Firebreak weeding          80 MD/km    0.25 km/ha             20
2     Weeding 2 operations    _                                     80
6 & 24   Pruning                   0.66 m3/ha      120 m3             182
16     1 cLearing - Cutting    0.66 m3/MD        96 m3             145
32     Coppicing IV              0.66 m3/MD       72 m3             109



43
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Tabte 9: Sylviculture Schem for Eucalyptus Class III (4 n2/ha/an)
Age     Before crg               m3            Rate :  M/D
tr/ha    m3       FW      SW      TW
16    900       64      64   r  _              100     97
24    800       64      64    _        _       100      97
32    600       32      32    _        1       100      48
48    500       32      32       =       =       =      48
L - ____         l         _____ _ ______    100
_ _ _ 19    192    _  _ _    _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _
Rem.:  RW:  firewood; SW:  saw wood; TW:  timber wood.
Comments: Without weeding of firebreaks and plantations.
Age           Operations          Unit/MD      Unit/ha        MD/ha
1     Weeding 2 operations                                       80    l
1 to 48  Firebreak weeding          80 MD/km   0.25 km/ha           20
29/                              _ _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
2     Weeding 2 operations                                       80
16 & 24  Coppicing I and II        0.66 m3/ha    64 e3              97
48 & 32  Coppicing III and IV    0.66 m3/MD    32 m3                48
29/      Maybe it is better to forget the management of these plantations.



44
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 10: Sylviculture Scheme for Eucalyptus Class 1 (20 a'/ha/an) with Timber Wood
Age       Before ctrg                       Production             Rate X       After cirg          M/D
tr/ha      m3      tr/ha                m3                            tr/ha       m3
FW        SW        TW
11    1300        220      900       115        39                   70       400         66      233
21     400        260      400        66                  200       100          0                403
1  181        39       200      _
Sources:  Project report on Gakara and Gahuni p. 23 (Vauron & Verney, July 90).



Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 11: Estia_ted Prockction of Comerciat Plantations - Phase If MQ/
1          2          3           4          5           6           7           a
Years                                                           Unit        1994       1995        1996       1997        1998       1999        2000        2001
Labor needs for firebreaks & plantations weedings              ad 31    188,140    157,280    165,725    161,990    158,085    163,925    156,695          158,595
Pine smallwood                                 _                  3            -           0          0           0          0      12,900      1,800        7,700
Pine sawtogs                                                     m3            -           -          -           -          -      19,700      2,100        9,100
|Eucalyptus firewood                                             m3       26,400     33,100      71,600     46,400      49,500     24,000      19,500      21,800
Eucalyptus service wood                                          m3        8,800     11,000      24,100     15,500      16,600      8,000       6,500        7,300
Eucalyptus sawlogs                                               m3                        ---                                                        
9         10          11         12          13         14          15          16
|Years                                                           Ed         2002       2003        2004       2005        2006       2007        2006        2009
Labor needs for firebreaks weeding & ptantation weeding          mn3     156,860    156,280    154,520    154,295    153,500    153,500    153,500        153,500   _n
Pine smallwood                                                   mn3       7,400      1,700      11,900      5,700       4,400    _      0          0            0
Pine sawlogs                                                    I3         7,800      1,900       7,200      2,800       2,200           -          -
Eucatyptus firewood                                              m3       54,900     67,000      59,000     51,000      85,100     40,500      30,100        3,500
Eucalyptus service wood                                          m3       12,600     15,000      12,900     11,900      14,300      7,400       5,300       8,800
Eucalyptus sawtogs                                                             -           -          -           -                31,200      26,200       101600
MQ/      Based on Tables 4 to 10.
31/      md: man-days.



Annex 2: Technical Annex
l ______________________________________________          ._______        17         18         19         20         21         22         Z3          24         25
Years                                                         2d 2010              2011       1012       2013       2014       2015       2016        2017       2018
Labor needs for firebreaks weeding & ptantation weeding       m3      153,500    153,500    153,500   153,500    153,500   153,500    153,500    153,500                .
Pine smatlwood                                                m3            -          -          -    13,200       1,200     5,300      4,900      20,000       7,300
Pine sawlogs                                                  M3            -          -          -   .55,400       5,000    22,000      17,800     44,900      15,100
Eucalyptus firewood                                           mn      47,500    60,100       54,200    45,800     53,200    25,800      18,300       8,200      28,400
|Eucatyptus service wood                               -       m3       8,800     11,000     10,300      9,500     11,500      6,000      4,200       6,600      8,300
|Eucalyptus sawtogs                                                    11,800     14,200      8,200      5,800          -          -
4-



Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 12:  Progra=e of Rural Nurseries
Years                                             1          2          3         4          5          6          7          8      Total
1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89   1909-90   1990-91   1991-92   1992-93
Nurseries
Actual number of project nurseries               80        90         103        89         112       108        150        114
Communal nurseries                                -          -          -          -          -        38         26         40
Private and farmer group nurseries                -          -          -          -          -        28         49        145
Appraisal No. of project nurseries               70         75        80         85         90                      -               -
% of Appraisal                                 114%      120%        129%       104%       124%          -          -          -          -
Seedtings Produced
Seedtings solded (to farmers or                   2.1        1.8        1.65       1.4       0.8        1.35        1.45       1.4       12.0
communes)                                                                                                    4_
Seedlings used for demonstration                  0.3        0.4        0.5        1.7        2.3       0.2        0.4        0.4         6.2
Seedtings given free or rejected                 0.65        1.25       0.75      0.5         1         0.85       0.9        1           6.9
Seedlings produced by farmers or                  -          -          -          -          -         0.6        0.7        1.4         2.7
convmunes
Total production initiated by the                3.05       3.45       2.9        3.6        4.1        3.0        3.45       4.25       27.8
project
Number of seedlings produced in                  3          3.25       3.5        3.75       4.0         -          -          -         17.5
appraisal
% of AppraisaL                                  102       106         82         96         102                                         160
Sources:  Project staff and reports.
Comments:  The new group run nurseries formuta ("groupement") is an association of people who need seedlings and want to
carry out the nurseries by themselves to share the seedlings; the project provides them with basic means (bags, seeds) and
technical support.  These nurseries, also, used to sell seedlings.  This new formuLa leads to a large number of nurseries
throughout the countries and access to seedlings is easier for smalihotders, the new formula is certainly more efficient than
the previous state nurseries.



48
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 13: Firebreaks Opened during the Project
Actual         Appraisal
ha Firebreaks 32/             km,/20 ha          b/20 ha                 X
km
Gakara-Gahuni                     799                235                 5.88              1              588
Vyanda-Makamba-Vugizo          2,828                 147.4               1.04               1             104
Nord Mumirva                   4,048                 383.6               1.9                1             190
Total                          7,675                 766                 1.99              1              200
32/      Figures coming from  project reports.



49
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 14:  Repartition (X) of number of seedLings prodiced by rural nurseries
Project It
Beneficiaries         Project 1 1980-85                   1985-90                   1990-93
Communes                                   48.2                      21                        14.7
Privates                                   25.5                      22.6                      49.7
Projects                                                             28.9                       9.7
Thrown or stoLen                           26.3                      27.5                      25.9
TotaL                                     100                       100                       100
Sources: Project reports
Comments:
Private and group-run nurseries (1990-93) have permitted to reverse the tendency to produce
seedlings mainly for private farmers.



50
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 15: Forestry and agroforestry domonstration plots
Appraisal            Actual               % of
(ha)               (ha)               Target
Forestry Demonstration plots or Communal
Woodlots
1985-90                                                             1,290
1990-93                                                               215
Agroforestry Demonstration L3/
PLots                                                -                710
TotaL                                           2,000               2,215             110X of
l________________  _________________      the   target
Sources: Project staff and reports
Comments:
The statistics do not refLect the quality of the communat woodlots.
31/      58%  on farm  level, 9%  on communal fields, 13%  in school gardens, 20%  in other
community gardens and project.



51
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Table 16: Estiiation of employment in u.n years inrduced after Project II,
in countryside around indkstrial plantation
CLass                           Units            I Pine     11 Pine    I[[ Pine       I Euc       II Euc      11I Euc    Total
Species
Surface '                       000ha             522       1,433         440          895       2,700       1,685
Productivity                  m3/ha/year           12           8           5           20          15            4
Harvesting !/                md/ha/year             9           6           3.75        15          11.25         3
Firebreaks, Weeding          md/ha/year            20          20          20           20          20          20
Total                        md/ha/year            29          26          23.75        35          31.25        23
TOTAL                         103md/year           15.1        37.3         10.5        31.3        84.4         38.8     256
Man-Year !/                                                                               1,164
'/:      Mission estimated, see Tables 2 and 3, annex 2.
b/:      According to the project experiences on harvesting.
1 man-year = 220 man/days.



52
Annex 2: Technical Annex
Tabte 17: Cost of seedLings in rural nurseries
State Nurseries                       Group-run
Nurseries
AppraisaL              PCR estimates              PCR estimates
Unit/years               5 years           1985-90          1992-93          1992-93
FBU/USS                              120
Cost of 1 seedling with                8.85             7.97           10.39               4.4
all contingencies FBU
Cost of 1 seedling with                0.07            0.066            0.044              0.018
all contingencies USS                       I                 I                I
Comments:
The seedLing production costs in project nurseries were weLL estimated at appraisal
for the five year-period of the project. Group-run nurseries reduced these costs
significantly.



Annex 2: Temhnical Annex
Tabte 18: Research and Agroforestry
System                                         Research Topic (Appraisal)                     Project 11 links with         X of Topic Carryout
Research Centers              (PCR estimate)
For Fuelwood Shortage
Individual tree pLanting on farms                          Choice of species and provenances - seLection of                    ISABU                                  90
ideotypes.
Competition effects with crops.                                    ISABU                                  50
PolLarding studies.                                                ISABU                                  50
Nursery studies, including use of seeds to                          ISABU                                 90
farmers.
Direct sowing.                                                      ISABU                                 S0
Yield and cutting cycles (from woodLots).                          ISABU                                  30
For Fodder Shortage
Individual tree planting on farms                           Choice of species, provenances and ideotypes.                      ISABU                                  70
Competition studies with crops.                                     ISABU                                 60
Paddocking                                                  Pollarding and coppicing studies.                                   ISABU                                 60
Nursery studies.                                                   ISABU                                  90
Alley Cropping, use of hedgerows on contours                Yield and cutting cycle.                                            ISABU                                 60
Contour trenches and tree plantin                           Palatability and nutritive studies.                               FAC Agro                                60
Family nutrition and cash income
Fruit trees                                                 Choice of species/varieties.                            Projet Maraicher (avocado)                        10
Bee keeping                                                 Nursery production (grafting etc)
Marketing studies.                                                                                         0
Soil erosion and steep slopes
Paddocking                                                  Choice of species/varieties (bee forage, fruit).                    ISABU                                 50
Multipurpose species in contour trenches                    Nursery production (grafting etc).                                  ISABU                                 90
Replacement of annual cultivation by permanent crops   Marketing studies.                                          ____I___I__                                         0
Surveys                                                     Diagnostic and Design Survey                                   ISABU and ICRAF                           100
Seedling needs survey                                             FAC Agro                                20
Corments:
Relations between the project and national staff were efficient. The project was a real support of the research (it provided additional staff to
ISABU, means, land for trials inside pLantations,...).  Results are available but more must be done about:  (i) marketing studies for fruit and
cash income related to agroforestry crops; (ii) fruit tree selection; and (iii) local knowledge of agroforestry, and farmer needs.



I



2900'                                      29030                                     3O!00'                                        3030'
BURUNDI                                                                                            Z
-20V                              SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                - -
sed Phase II Plantations (1985-1990)
Lfosed Eucalyptus
G         Pines
Existing Phase I Plantations (1980-1985)
O E       Eucalyptus
Pines                                       R WANDA
Proposed Forest Inspectorates
|I-|  Future Forest Inspectorotes
Forest Inspectorote Boundaries          T >k                   C     .'.- ,       --
3      Copitol                                 t   _    >                                        ___--_
o      Provincial Centers                      \IRUNDOp                             i        O  4'
o     Villages                                                1-      -                                                         2-3-
Main Roads                          j
Commune Boundaries                      K-       r4                                  J                              *
Provincial Boundaries               SLN T  G A                                    -V
-- ntern ational Boundaries/                                    ,I
.    /:' -..'1Rivers
: L:
AN,~~A



