Document Of
The World Bank
FoR omuIL USE ONLY
Rent No- P-4105-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TRE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
May 23, 1985
IThis dscmt m a imikde  dhtrlmhm sed my be med by aedilmi emily in the pezf.uce of
their eUficl dUd.. ft emeb _ ms  ethwe be _dim  w l Wod  Beak sadmieo.



BURUNDI
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units                     Burundi Franc (BuF)
US$1.00                    -       BuF 120.0
BuF 100                    =       US$0.83
SDR I                     =        US$0.991
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                        British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                        3.3 feet
I cubic meter (m3)         -       35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha)   100 ares          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)          -        0.62 m-le
1 square kilometer (km2)  =        0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)            =       2.20 pounds (Lb)
I liter (1)                        0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
0.22 Imperial gallon (imp. gal)
1 ton (metric ton)                 2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
AFVP    -   Association Francaise des Vol-ontaires du Progres/
French Volunteers
CTFT    -   Centre Technique Forestier Tropical/French Tropical Forest
Center
EDF     -   European Development Fund/Fonds Europeen de d6veloppement (FED)
FAC     -   Fonds d'Aide et de Coop&ration/French Aid and Cooperation Fund
ILO     -   International Labor Organization
ICRAF   -   International Center for Research in Agroforestry
ISABU   -   Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi/
National Agricultural Research Institute
MFCZN   -   Mission Francaise Crete ZaIre Nil/French Forestry Zaire-
Nile Divide Mission
ONATOUR -   Office National de la Tourbe/National Peat Development Agency
SRD     -   Societe National de la Tourbe/National Peat Development Agency
Company
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
WFP     -   World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Burundi : January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower    : Republic of Burundi
Beneficiary :Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Forestry Department
Amount       : SDR 13.0 million (US$12.8 million equivalent)
Terms        :Standard IDA terms
Project      : The proposed Credit would finance the second phase of a long-
Objectives    term afforestation program and assist the Government in
and           establishing long-term production and marketing policies for
Description   the sub-sector.  The main Project objectives are: (i) to help
meet the rapidly growing demand for wood; (ii) to reduce
Burundi's need for imports of timber, timber substitutes and
fuel; (iii) to contribute to protecting the natural
environment; and (iv) to promote greater itegration of
cropping, forestry and livestock activities at farm level.
Ninety rural nurseries (including about 30 new ones) would
produce plants for sale to the population.  Agro-forestry
would be promoted to address the rural population's needs for
wood, fodder, shade and soil improvement. Pilot actions
would be undertaken in a few plantation areas to integrate
afforestation with livestock and agricultural improvement
activities. About 3,500 ha of eucalyptus and 1,500 ha of
pine plantations would be established in western Burundi; in
addition 2,000 ha of woodlots would be established in
communes all over the country.
Benefits      The Project would benefit about 60,000 rural families, or
about 8X of the farming community by increasing their
supplies of fuelwood and poles. The eucalyptus and pine
plantations would serve the urban population by meeting the
needs for charcoal of about 60,000 people in Bujumbura. The
pilot activities would primarily integrate better afforest-
ation programs with agriculture and livestock.  Agroforestry
research would define better means to improve present farming
systems. Finally, the Project would have a significant
impact on employment.
Risks       : The proposed Project does not involve major or unusual
risks.Limited land availability is the most important problem
in establishing large and medium size commercial
plantations: to avoid this risk, legal arrangements have
already been made to ensure the availability of planting
sites. The principal economic risk of the Project is that
management performance will not reach expected standards,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
thus reducing productivity of plantations and nurseries.
This risk would be reduced by the recrUitment of a technical
assistance team.
Estimated                                Local       Foreign       Total
Project Costs  1/                         ------- -USi    llion
. Commercial plantations                   3.5         1.3          4.8
. Rural nurseries & agroforestry          2.1         0.2           2.3
. Agroforestry research                   0.0         0.2           0.2
Maintenance of existing plantations   0.2           0.3            0.5
. Livestock and agriculture               0.6         0.9           1.5
improvement
. Institutional strengthening             0.6         2.9           3.5
. Scholarships and specialized             -          0.2           0.2
training
Base Cost                                  7.0         6.0          13.0
Physical Contingencies                     0.7        0.4            1.1
Price Contingencies                        2.0         0.9           2.9
Total Project Costs                        9.7         7.3          17.0
Financing Plan          USS Million Equivalent            x of Total
Local   Foreign   Total           Financing
IDA                     8.1       4.7       12.8           75
FAC                     -         2.6        2.6           15
Government               1.6      -          1.6           10
Total                    9.7      7.3       17.0          100
Estimated Disbursements
IDA fiscal year:           1985/86   86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
--------USS millions -                 …
Annual                       0.2      1.8     1.8    2.8    3.4    2.0    0.8
Cumulative                   0.2     2.0      3.8    6.6   10.0   12.0   12.8
Economic Rate of Return:  24X on the commercial plantations component
representing 50 percent of project cost
Staff Appraisal:            Burundi Second Forestry Project.  Report No.
5368d-BU.
Map:                        IBRD - 18487
1/ Taxes are negligible.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO TEE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent o0 SDR
13.0 million (US$12.8 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Second Forestry Project. The project would be cofinanced by the French Aid
and Cooperation Fund (FAC).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         The last Country Economic Memorandum on Burundi (Report 4784BU)
is  dated December  26,  1984.    The  following  section  incorporates  its
findings and conclusions. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Burundi is a small, land-locked country in East-Central Africa.
It covers a territory of 27,835 square kilometers (including its share in
Lake Tanganyika), and has a population of 4.4 million inhabitants. With an
estimated Gross National Product of US$240 per capita in 1983 it is one of
the world's least developed countries. The overall literacy rate was about
25X in 1982, morbidity is high, and basic social infrastructures are still
lacking. Limited natural resources, population pressure, scarcity of qua-
lified and experienced manpower, and isolation from main trade routes,
characterize this extremely poor country.
4.         Nearly 95% of Burundi's population is rural, living on scattered
homesteads. Bujumbura, the capital city, had about 165,000 inhabitants in
1982.   Agriculture,  mostly smallholders who grow subsistence crops and
coffee, contributes about 60% of GDP at factor cost and 90% of merchandise
exports.   A few  large farms grow sugarcane, tea and quinine.   Other
natural resources are scarce.  Identified minerals include nickel, phos-
phate, petroleum, vanadium, some fluvial gold and calcium, but the economic
justification for their exploitation is still uncertain.   Bdrundi's manu-
facturing sector is small, its growth being limited by the small size of
the domestic market, the country's isolation from trade routes, vulnerabi-
lity to disruptions in the external transport corridors, high transport
costs, and the lack of skilled manpower.
5.           The country is the second most densely populated country in
Africa, with a density of 154 per km2.   Population pressure has led to
declining soil fertility, soil erosion and deforestation. Although
1/ This part is substantially the same as that in the President's Report
P-4035 BU on a Power Transmission and Distribution Project, considered
by the Executive Directors on May 9, 1985.



- 2 -
agricultural statistics are poor, there are indications that, in recent
years, foodcrop production may have declined in per capita terms.   Net
population growth is projected at 2.7Z p.a. du.ing the current decade (in
absence of migration, however, this growth would be higher; population
could triple in thirty years).  The implications of this rapid growth for
health facilities, schools, employment and land availability are worri-
some. IDA has emphasized the urgent need to initiate family planning pro-
grams. Although progress has been slow, the Government has recently ack-
nowledged the problem, and a first family health project is being prepared
(para. 28).
6.         The country has an adequate road network.  Main roads are pas-
sable all year. There is an international airport at Bujumbura. Burundi,
however, remains dependent for most of its imports and exports upon two
transport routes to the Indian Ocean through neighboring countries.   The
Northern Route, by highway from Bujumbura to Mombasa, Kenya, via Rwanda and
Uganda is 2,02U km. in length.  This route suffers from poor road condi-
tions, cumbersome administrative border procedures. The Central Route, by
barge down Lake Tanganyika, then by railway to Dar-es-Salaam, is 1,425 km.
It tends to be inefficient because of long delays in transhipment, and dis-
ruptions on the Tanzanian railway.
7.         Transport charges on these routes add from 25 to 300 percent to
the landed cost of imports. The passage of goods through neighboring coun-
tries is hindered by factors which are out of Burundi's control.  Inter-
ruption of crucial supplies hinders project implementation and forces firms
to hold large stocks of inputs and spare parts. In 1980, the Bank prepared
a study of the external transport connections of Burundi and Rwanda.  A
more extensive study covering Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and Eastern Zaire was
carried out by UNCTAD.  The findings and recommendations of these studies
have assisted the countries and donor agencies to agree on action and prio-
rity investments.   Several bilateral and multilateral meetings led, inter
alia, to the Northern Corridor Transit Agreement which was signed in
Kampala in September  1984.   The agreement  will  result  in significant
simplification of customs procedures at border crossings.  On the Southern
Route, a number of external donors have been financing improvements in phy-
sical facilities at the ports of Kigoma and Dar-es-Salaam. IDA is now pre-
paring a report which will update and review the actions taken so far and
will help to define priority policies and investments in regard to the
international transport.
Economic Developments: Goals and Performance
8.          In the mid-1970s, Burundi's economic situation benefitted from
several favorable factors: (i) a new Government, headed by President
Bagaza, took power in 1976, ending a period of political instability; (ii)
the price of coffee in the international market tripled, resulting in sub-
stantial windfall profits and accumulation of public savings; and (iii) the
level of foreign aid to Burundi increased considerably, in support of the
new regime's stated commitment to economic development.   These circums-
tances were considered a good omen for the Third Development Plan (1978-
82), and expectations for an improvement in living conditions were there-
fore high.



-3 -
9.          The Third Development Plan (1978-82) included broad objectives
such as the transformation of the economic structure; increased mobiliza-
tion of resources for production; the reduction of poverty, together with
improved income distribution; and increased access to education and health
services. Performance during the Plan period was relatively good especial-
ly in comparison with most ot the Sub-Saharan countries. On the average,
real GDP at market prices rose by 3.1% per year, with  gross domestic
investment averaging about 13.5% of GDP, far above the 8.0% share of the
previous five years.   The public sector took the lead in the investment
effort, accounting for 90% of the total. Foreign donors financed about 60%
of investment expenditures.    The growth in total value added was mainly
due to the growth in the modern sector stimulated by public investment
spending.   The output of the subsistence sector which accounts for 85Z of
the population, grew more slowly than the population, widening the income
gap between rural and urban dwellers.    The investment program favored
mostly the modern sector, and its effects on income and foreign exchange
earnings were limited.    Most of the projects were capital intensive and
created few jobs; moreover, the protection extended to the new ventures
made them inefficient and heavily dependent on imported materials, adding
little to the country's foreign exchange earning capacity.
10.       The financial situation, which had been kept under control during
most of the 1970's, deteriorated rapidly at the turn of the decade. This
was due to two main factors: (i) deterioration in the terms of trade -   by
75% between 1977 and 1982 - reflecting a decline in coffee prices and a
doubling in import prices, which pushed the current account deficit to
about 12% of GDP; and (ii) insufficient and delayed response of the Govern-
ment to tne changing economic environment. To support the balance of pay-
ments, the Government relied mostly on a run-down of its reserves; it also
increased restrictions on imports and on remittances of foreign exchange
abroad.  The Burundi Franc appreciated significantly with respect to the
currencies of the major trade partners, reflecting the appreciation of the
US dollar to which it was pegged.
11.       These unfavorable developments had serious consequences for the
budget. The terms-of-trade deterioration reduced import capacity and led
to budgetary problems, as the Government's receipts from coffee exports
fell dramatically, necessitating cutbacks in imports and public spending.
These factors as well as the poor agricultural crops of 1982 led to a
decline in income, which spread into 1983 and resulted in a significant
slow down of economic activity. The consequence was a widening of the
resource gap, depletion of reserves, and an accumulation of payment arrears
in the Government accounts.
12.       During the 1978-82 period, Burundi was able to receive external
financing on very soft terms.  Grant assistance was substantial.   In addi-
tion, external public borrowing during the period carried an average
interest rate of only 2.4% and an average maturity of 31 years including
eight years of grace, implying a grant element of about 6U%. Debt service
remained, therefore, low -- at about 5% of exports of goods and nonfactor
services  during  1978-82.   Bank projections  indicate,  however,  a rapid
increase  to  about  20-25Z in  1985-86  due  to  the  -bunching" of  debt
maturities.



- 4 -
13.        The lesson of the Third Plan period is that Burundi must esta-
blish development priorities and select investment projects with great
care. The linkage between macroeconomic planning and the selection of pro-
grams and projects needs to be improved.  The private sector, nongovern-
mental organizations, and cooperatives mstt be enlisted  to the maximum
extent feasible to participate in the development effort. Sustained tech-
nical assistance will be needed for several years in order to strengthen
the country's ability to identify, prepare, and carry out well-conceived
plans and projects.
14.        The year 1983 was the first year of the Fourth Development Plan
(1983-87), which , as explained further below, incorporates an ambitious
investment program of US4230 million per year (US$100 million more than
what was achieved in the Third Plan Period). The Government tried to raise
its revenues in order to be able to carry out this ambitious program. New
tax measures were introduced, notably increases of 50 to 100Z in the rates
of the most important taxes - transaction tax, income tax and tax on beer
consumption, which in the last years replaced coffee as the single most
important source of government fiscal revenue. By mid-1983, however, there
were signs of increasing financial stress.   The Government tried to cope
with the situation by attempting to reduce the investment budget by 45%,
but this proved difficult.  While 80% of the investment planned for 1983
was actually implemented, this was obtained at a great cost: the public
domestic debt increased substantially; unpaid obligations accuiulated,
representing (at end-1983) 30% of Government spending; and the overall
budget deficit reached 5% of GDP. Economic growth, which had been negli-
gible in 1982, remained marginal in 1983, with non-agricultural sectors
registering an absolute decline.
15.        In response to this difficult situation, the Government took a
number of important actions. First, in November 1983, the FBu was delinked
from the US dollar (to which it had been linked since 1976) and pegged to
the SDR, with an implicit devaluation of about 30%. Second, in early 1984,
the producer prices of the main export crops were raised to provide
stronger incentives to producers.  The coffee price was increased by 6%,
the tea price by 36%, and the cotton price by 17%. Third, in an attempt to
balance the current budget, the Government increased the rates of the most
important taxes, froze public wages and salaries, improved the system of
tax collection, and cut the recurrent subsidies to the parastatals.
16.        According to preliminary and partial information, the year 1984
was another difficult year.   Agriculture was adversely affected by the
drought and foodcrop production may have fallen by as much as 5-6%. Cash
crop production did not fare better: coffee production fell from a high of
3O,000 tons in 1983 to 27,000 tons, offsetting the increase in the output
of other cash crops, notably tea.  The modern sector registered some real
growth (owing to the partial liquidation of government arrears), but the
poor performance of the primary sector caused total GDP to stagnate.  On
the financial side, both external and internal imbalances were reduced
somewhat.  As a result of the 1983 devaluation, Burundi's trade balance
improved. However, because of increased factor services payments and debt



- 5 -
servicing charges, the total current account balance remained above 12% of
GDP. The public finance situation also improved. Revenues were about 20%
higher than in 1983, reflecting (a) the impact of the devaluation on
revenues from taxes on international trade; (b) reinforcement of tax col-
lection procedures; and (c) improvement in the economic activity of the
modern sector.   Current expenditures were maintained at about the same
level, in nominal terms, and capital outlays were reduced to their lowest
level since 1979.   As a result, the budgetary deficit was reduced from
FBu6.5 billion to FBu3.4 billion (or from 5% of GDP to 3%).
Sectoral Developments and Issues
17.        The very rapid population growth in a country which is already
overpopulated represents the most threatening constraint on economic deve-
lopment which Burundi has to face (para. 5).  The Government of Burundi
recently announced its intention to adopt a program to reduce population
growth and to establish, as a first step, an lnterministerial Family
Planning Committee. One of the first tasks of this Commission will be to
plan and develop a population program.  Fertility reduction will require
substantial changes in the health care system, which is presently geared to
hospital-based curative services in urban areas, as well as an increase in
public spending on health, which declined in real terms in the last five
years.  Burundi faces serious issues in the agricultural sector, related
principally to productivity increases (of foodcrops as well as export
crops), soil protection, and erosion control, which are reviewed in Part
II.
18.       Manufacturing Industry.  Industrialization is constrained by the
limited natural resources, low productivity of the industrial labor force
and the acute shortage of rianagers, as well as by the country's small
market, the low purchasing power of its population, the country's land-
locked position, and difficulL transport conditions which increase costs.
Burundi does offer, however, certain advantages for industrial development:
basic infrastructure is available in the major urban center at reasonable
costs; the country's land-locked situation constitutes a natural protection
for import substitution projects; and domestic finance is readily available
to manufacturers.    During  the  1978-82  period,  protectionist  measures
created a favorable climate for manufacturing expansion.   Modern manu-
facturing value added grew at an average annual rate of nearly 10% in real
terms, reaching about 5% ot GDP in 1982. Most of this expansion has been
oriented to the domestic market.  Production remains typical of the first
generation of import substitution, based on imported raw materials with
exports limited to processed coffee, tea, cotton and a few other items.
Capacity utilization is low because of the small size of the domestic
market, high tariffs in neighboring countries, and high production costs.
However, due to the monopolistic situation enjoyed by most firms and the
cost-plus_ system of price control, the sector is profitable despite its
inefticiencies. Since the mid-1970s, the Government has iarticipated in a
number of joint ventures with foreign interests and established public
enterprises to manage large industrial operations that the private sector
had avoided because of their complex management and large financial



- b -
requirements.  Most of these public enterprises have been created without
an adequate financial structure and/or sufficient qualified personnel and
are now a drain on the budget. The Government has recognized these pro-
blems and has taken some measures to deal with them. Dn the one hand, it
has virtually eliminated recurrent subsidies to public enterprises. On the
other, it has created a Public Enterprises Commission (CGEP) to des4gn
restructuring programs for public enterprises, sell off enterprises to
private investors when possible, and phase out those unlikely to become
viable.
19.         Burundi faces a range of problems in the energy sector.  The
first and most important is the increasing scarcity of fuelwood and other
traditional fuels on which almost all of Burundi's population depends for
cooking and heating. Another is the high cost of oil imports whose value
rose by 450% between 1977 and 1982. Finally, only 2% of the population has
access to electricity. The Government, with assistance from the UNDP/Bank
energy management program and other donors has started to implement a pro-
gram (i) to improve forestry sector management and policy; (ii) to reduce
woodfuel demand by introducing more efficient firewood and charcoal cook-
stoves and kilns; (iii) to develop the use of peat as a substitute for
wood, charcoal and petroleum products; (iv) to investigate alternative and
contingency supply arrangements for oil-imports; and (v) to participate in
the Ruzizi hydro-electric regional project, improve the transmission net-
work and establish a strong unit for power planning. Exploration is also
underway to assess the hydrocarbon potential of Burundi.
20.         The Government has made a considerable effort to develop basic
education and increase primary enrollments. Average percentages of capital
and recurrent budgetary expenditures allocated to education are comparable
to those of other African countries. However, the primary enrollment rate
in public schools is only about 30%. Measures are therefore being taken to
increase the share of resources which are devoted   to basic education,
through the adoption of cost saving measures at the secondary and univer-
sity level, and to use these resources more effectively, in particular
through the introduction of double shifting, and upgradin6 of teacher
training.   The Ministry  of Education is  also providing  assistance to
improve the quality and scope of education given in private schools and
adult social centers.
The 1983-87 Fourth Plan
21.        The Fourth Plan was presented at a Round Table meeting organized
by the UN in February 1984.   The Plan envisages real GDP (factor cost)
growth ot 3.7% per year between 1982 and 1987 and total investment of
FBuIO7.2 billion (in constant 1981 prices), equivalent to about US$1,200
million.     Barring an unforeseen and substantial improvement in coffee
prices and a major inflow of fresh financial aid, achievement of the Fourth
Plan objectives does not seem likely.   Given the prospective  resource
availabilities, perhaps not more than 60% of the intended investment would
be feasible.   Even with such a shortfall, external donors would have to
provide 80Z of total financing.



-7-
22.        The Fourth Plan anticipates that 30% of the investment financing
will come from domestic sources (20% from the budget, lUZ from bank credit
and the private sector) and 7U% from foreign aid. This would represent an
annual average of US$160 million in foreign aid for project financing,
which is almost twice what was received during the Third Plan Period.  A
doubling of net external assistance, while not impossible, does not appear
very probable; a more conservative figure would be US$100-130 million per
year.  The Government may therefore have to cut the investment program.
23.       Regional development in Central Africa will also be important to
Burundi's economy. In September 197b, Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a
convention establishing the "Economic Community of the Countries of the
Great Lakes" (CEPGL).   The Community, which has its seat in Gisenyi,
Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensifying intra-regional
trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities. A major objective of
the Community is the exploitation of energy resources in the Great Lakes
region. A first step is the Ruzizi Hydroelectric Power Project, cofinanced
by the European Development Fund, the regional Development Bank (BDEGL),
Italy, and IDA, which has just started. A glass container project, which
is the first major regional industry to be implemented under the aegis of
the  CEPGL,  is  underway.    The  three  countries  have  set  up  a joint
development bank (BDEGL) to finance regional development projects, in
particular exploitation of methane deposits in Lake Kivu and development of
a fishing industry around Lake Tanganyika.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
24.        The history of Bank Group operations in Burundi closely follows
the three phases of the country's political and economic development since
independence in 1962.  To the political turmoil of the 1962-1976 period
corresponds a phase of limited operations (coffee production, highway
engineering and maintenance, and water supply).   With the period of in-
creased political stability, came a rapid acceleration of IDA lending for
agriculture and highways as well as an extension of assistance to new
sectors: fisheries, education, industry and rural development.   Financing
was also provided to improve the telecommunications network, explore the
feasibility of exploiting nickel deposits, strengthen the capacity of the
Ministry of Planning, and improve the management of urban services in
Bujumbura. As of March 31, 1985, Burundi had received 23 credits totalling
US$196 million; 11 credits, totalling about US$48 million had been totally
disbursed.  IDA is now one of the main sources of financial assistance to
Burundi.



- 8 -
25.        Project Implementation.  Project performance has, on the whole,
been satisfactory.   The disbursement rate of 27Z in FY82-84 is above the
average for countries of the Eastern and Southern Africa Region. Physical
implementation of infrastructure projects or components (roads, schools,
coffee stations, telecommunications) has been satisfactory.   The nickel
exploration project showed that the ore content of the mineral was lower
than expected, and that exploitation of the deposi_. would not be economic
in the near future. Implementation of the pilot local construction indus-
try project has been hampered by the economic recession. In the productive
sectors the record is mixed. While agricultural projects had some success
in increasing the production and quality of coffee, and in increasing
forest areas, they have had limited impact on developing food crop produc-
tion because of the absence of technical packages which could be readily
adopted by farmers and the lack of a coherent policy on agricultural inputs
and services. The DFC Project failed to develop a pipeline of small enter-
prise projects in the industrial sector: the weak management of the Deve-
lopment Bank was a further constraint among the many which the sector has
to face and which cannot be overcome in the framework and time span of one
project alone.  Operations of the glass container company financed by IFC
are affected by poor market conditions due to lagging beverage consumption,
competition from cheaper imports in neighboring export markets and the lack
of progress in the negotiatio-> of preferential tariffs with Rwanda and
Zaire.  The fisheries projecc failed largely because it was too complex in
relation to the institutional and management capacity of the implementing
agency.   The impact  of projects on institutional development has been
mixed.   In some projects (e.g., Coffee),  the presence of an effective
technical assistance team led to a successful project implementation but
did not result in the strengthening of the capacity of local institutions.
In the education and telecommunications projects, on the other hand,
efforts in institution building and training have had good results, and the
assistance provided under the Second and Third Technical Assistance
Projects has strenghtened the capacity of the Ministries of Planning and
Agriculture to identify and address key policy issues; select, prepare and
monitor projects; an-' improve coordination between them.   Similarly, the
urban project was successful in strengthening the Bujumbura municipality.
IDA-financed projects have also provided a useful framework for policy
discussions and decisions. Discussions under the Education projects led,
inter alia, to the adoption of cost savings and cost-recovery schemes, a
more equitable distribution of school facilities, reorganization of
secondary education, and development of non-formal education for adults.
The urban  project has accomplished major changes in urban programs over
the past several years including the lifting of rent ceilings and the
adoption of cost-recovery schemes.
26.        Economic and Sector Work and Evolution of Dialogue.  In order to
assist the Burundian authorities in defining the necessary adjustment poli-
cies, economic and sector work was intensified in the past two years. In
the agricultural sector, the dialogue is focusing on the need to deempha-
size reliance on complex rural developmenc projects and to improve research
and extension services, diversify foodcrop production and export crops,
design input policies, and promote the private sector.   In the energy



- 9 -
sector, our dialogue has contributed to focus Government attention and
acticns on key issues.  The recent discussion of the manufacturing sector
report has established the basis of a dialogue on industrial policy.  In
the transport sector our dialogue with Burundi and neighboring countries
has contributed to the removal of t!oine of the administrative bottlenecks on
the northern route. The population issue has been the object of repeated
discussions with the Government and is one of the main themes of our policy
dialogue with Burundi.
27.      Strategy.  IDA's strategy aims to assist the Government in setting
its short-term stabilization efforts in the context cf medium-term adjust
ment policies and long-term development programs designed to address the
country's structural constraints.   In particular, we plan to help the
Government in the design and implementation of medium-term economic poli-
cies to improve resource mobilization and the efficiency of resource allo-
cation through the strengthening of public sector management (investment
selection, monitoring and aid coordination; parastatal management; reorien-
tation in the management of the agricultural sector).   While some recent
adjustment measures show that Burundian authorities appreciate the need for
demand management, there is only limited awareness of the options available
and possible impact of measures aimed at increasing output and productive
capacity.  Our assistance in this area could have a critical impact.  At
the same time, IDA will continue to support long-term efforts to develop
human resources, increase agricultural production, and develop and maintain
infrastructure which will hare a significant long-term impact on produc-
tion, as well as policies and specific project choices which would improve
the equity of income distribution. Priority will be given to the design of
an action program to control population growth.  We believe that given the
broad development needs of Burundi, and the need to strengthen the manage-
ment capacity of the Burundian administration, it is important that the
Bank remain active in the main sectors of the economy.   The Government
needs objective and coherent advice on the overall management of the
economy as well as sectoral issues and policies and no other donor or
institution (with the partial exception of the IMF) is in a position to
play this vital role.
28.          In order to implement this strategy, our Economic work will
include the review and monitoring of the investment program, studies to
identify ways of increasing the efficiency of the public sector and a CEM
(FY86-87).  We shall work closely with the IMF to prevent duplication of
efforts.  As to Sector work, the emphasis will be on (i) increasing agri-
cultural production including studies on land use issues, erosion control
and agroforestry, export crops promotion and financial aspects of agricul-
tural projects; (ii) raising industrial output, including a tariff study
and a study on long term potential for industrial diversification and
regional cooperation.   In other sectors,  such as transport, human re-
sources, energy and mining, our sector work will focus on consolidating the
results of previous studies.  The lending program includes proposed pro-
jects in agriculture (agricultural services; foodcrops; forestry; export
crops); human resources (education; health/population); transport and
communications; and energy. To complement IDA resources, a special effort
will continue to be made to assist the Government in securing cofinancing.



- 10 -
PART III: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. The Agricultural Sector
29.        Burundi benefits from relatively favorable conditions for agri-
culture, but faces mounting pressure on its limited land resources from a
growing population.  Virtually all good land is cultivated (30% of total
land).  Altitude and rainfall vary broadly and most crops can be culti-
vated.  On the other hand, the hilly topography renders modern farming
difficult and has contributed to soil erosion problems.  Of land poten-
tially available for agriculture, about 40% is under crops, 31% is used for
grazing, 7% is forest and the rest is unclassified. Burundi's farmers are
primarily smallholders and there are about 700,000 farming units. Because
of high population density, average farm size is very small at 1 ha.
Although all land in Burundi technically belongs to the Government and is
administered by local authorities, most land holdings are governed by a
combination of traditional law and  recent Government  regulations.   In
practice crop land is held by individual families while all pasture land is
communally held.   Small areas are farmed commercially under more formal
tenure arrangements.
30.         Traditional subsistence farming dominates agricultural produc---
tion; production systems are characterized by high labor intensity and the
use of traditional methods and rudimentary tools.   Farming systems are
relatively complex, with substantial intercropping and multiple crops grown
on most farms.  Farmers use organic fertilizer, as available, but little
chemical fertilizer; chemicals are used on coffee and cotton for insect
control. Animal traction is largely unknown. Fallow periods, particularly
in the highlands, have been decreasing because of population pressure, and
this has resulted in overcultivation and soil deterioration. Forest land
has steadily declined as farmers bring new land into cultivation.  Most
holdings have a few trees, growing scattered on unproductive patches or
steep slopes. On the average, no more than 5 or 10% of farm area are under
trees.   Food crops are the mainstay of the subsistence economy and also
represent the most important source of money income for farmers (mainly
through the sale of banana beer).  Traditional food crops include beans,
peas, cassava, potatoes and sweet potatoes, maize, sorghum, groundnuts and
bananas. Roughly 85% to 9UZ of the production of these foodstuffs is for
farm consumption.   Information about production, yields, areas planted,
cultivation techniques and producer prices (for the 10% to 15% that is
marketed) is poor but important efforts are underway to improve the statis-
tical coverage.  Non-traditional food crops include rice, wheat, palm oil
and sugar, most of which have been introduced relatively recently.
31.       Agriculture has provided 95% of Burundi's foreign exchange earn-
ings over the past decade, with coffee contributing an average 90%, and
cotton, tea and hides accounting for most oL the remainder.   Due to cli-
matic conditions coffee production fluctuates from year to year (between a
low of 17,UOO tons in 1978 and a high of 45,000 tons in 1982). Most coffee
produced is exported.  Burundi's coffee export quota, determined by the
International Coffee Agreement was 25,800 tons for 1982/83 and 1983/84.



- II -
Agriculture accounted for about 10-12% of total import expenditures over
the last decade, most of it for food items, and only a small part for
agricultural inputs.
32.         Sector performance.  The first two Five-year Development Plans
1968-72 and 1973-77 emphasized cash crop development to provide foreign
exchange resources and additional revenues to the Government. The 1978-8"
plan proposed a new strategy aimed at in'-reasing incomes and improving
living conditions in the rural areas through a set of measures including
food crop and livestock development, erosion control and cash crop diversi-
fication.   A stronger cooperative movement and the creation of Regional
Development Companies (SDR) to implement integrated rural development pro-
jects were to constitute the major vehicles for achieving the plan's
targets.   Actual  performance has fallen short of the plans'  ambitious
objectives although there has been important progress in some areas.
Although statistics are scanty, it appears that food production is barely
keeping up with population growth.
33.          Issues.   Burundi's recent agricultural development experience
suggests that a number of technical, institutional and financial issues
must be addressed if the broad strategic objectives of increasing produc-
tion and improving rural living conditions are to be achieved.   Major
efforts to upgrade productivity within traditional farm systems are
essential.   Priority areas for action are adaptive research, measures to
control erosion and to improve soil fertility, and improvement in the pro-
duction and distribution of inputs. The responsibilities of agricultural
institutions, notably Regional Development Companies (SRDs) and parastatals
need to be clarified, their objectives redefined and their financial impact
on the national budget reviewed. Agricultural services are weak. Scarcity
of trained, experienced Burundi staff is a key problem, and the capacity
for planning and implementing investment projects need to be strengthened.
Agri-culture's share in budget resources is low and has declined. Over the
past five years the Government has allocated only 10-25Z of its investment
budget  and  about 5% of  the  recurrent  budget  to agriculture.    Credit
available for agriculture is confined essentially to coffee marketing and
processing operations.  Cost recovery is another important issue:  wnLile
the Government is committed to the principle of cost recovery, a coherent
policy and mechanisms to implement this policy have yet to be designed.
B. The Forestry Sub-sector
34.        Forestry development was long neglected in Burundi's development
efforts.  Since the late 1970s, however, there has been increasing concern
about forestry issues prompted largely by evidence that forests were being
cut down much faster than they were replaced.   This has led to a large
investment program, which has been relatively successful in stepping up the
rate of plantation, in protecting natural forests and launching a new
nursery program to supply seedlings to farmers.   The time has come now,
however, to define more clearly Burundi's forest development strategy and
to develop the iustitutional framework necessary for its implementation.



- 12 -
35.        Burundi's forest resources are estimated at about 200,000 ha, or
nearly 7X of the total land area. About 140,000 ha of forests are man-made
plantations, while 60,OUU ha are protected forests, small areas of savanna
woodland (15,000 to 20,000 ha) in the south, and forest galleries along
water courses and in steep gorges.  Forest plantations are owned by the
Government, communes, religious communities and individuals. Productivity
of plantations varies widely, but annual increments are generally fairly
low and overall wood production is far below demand so that total forest
resources are declining.   Between 1978 and 1984, a total of 19,000 ha of
new plantations were established under several large externally financed
projects, representing about 45% of areas planted in the period.
36.         Information oa wood consumption is fragmentary and unreliable,
although some data on wood and charcoal sold in the main towns have been
available in recent years.  Available evidence suggests that wood demand
far outstrips current supply.   In particular,  the need for firewood is
estimated at about one million n3/year, while current supply is only one
half of that.  Estimated demand for timber is 130,000 m3, compared to an
annual production of 10,000 m3.   As a result of wood scarcity, the rural
population is increasingly using agricultural residues to meet fuel needs
and in some areas agricultural wastes are the primary fuel. This reduces
soil fertility and crop yields, which in turn increases pressure on the
land and leads to shortened fallow periods, soil degradation and falling
crop production.
37.         The wood shortage is clearly reflected in rapid increases in
charcoal prices:   from 1970 to 1984, charcoal price increased by 500%,
while the consumer price index increased by 250%. Charcoal is produced by
small-scale entrepreneurs by using inefficient methods (yields are around
10%); there are few incentives for economies as charcon:l-making fees are
based on the number of bags produced and not on area of wood cut or wood
volume. Improved methods have been introduced through the First Forestry
Project and their application would be promoted under the Sr-ond Project.
38.         Sub-sector issues and strategy.  The Government's development
strategy recognizes the need for continued support to the forescry sub-
sector. The key objectives are that new afforestation projects should con-
tribute to soil erosion control and they should not use land suitable for
agriculture; agro-forestry should be developed; and state plantations and
natural forests should be protected and well managed.   A Sector Policy
Review, which sets out an adequate strategic framework and specific action
programs has recently been approved. Periodic discussions on progress in
the implementation of the proposed measures would be pursued in the course
of project implementation.   Specific areas and issues to be addressed
include   the  institutional  arrangements  for  improvement  of  sector
management, training programs, application of cost recovery measures and
definition and implementation of regulatory measures related to the new
forest law. In addition, an annual review of the proposed investments in
the forestry sector would be conducted (Section 4.06 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
39.          Previous Bank involvement in the sub-sector.   The first IDA
Forestry Project (Credit 918-BU) which became effective in October 1979
represented the first stage of a long-term program to develop basic
timber.  The project objectives were:  to establish rural nurseries in 30
communes; to develop 2,000 ha of eucalyptus and 5,000 ha of pine
plantations; to finance technical assistance for project management and
training for local staff; to study energy needs; and to conduct applied
trials, in particular to improve charcoal production. The project is to be
completed shortly.   Project implementation has generally been successful.
The Project is ahead of schedule in several of its physical objectives and
most of its objectives should be reached by the end of the investment
period.   Problems encountered have included limited land availability in
some of the plantation sites, some resistance from local population%s and
temporary labor shortages, lack of candidates for training and some delays
in the release of Government counterpart funds.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.        The proposed Project was appraised in June/July 1984.  Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in May 1985. The Government delegation was
led by Mr. Ntibarikure, Minister of Agriculture and Livestock.   A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled  Burundi - Second Forestry Project, No. 5368-BU,
dated May 17, 1985, is being distributed separately. The main features of
the Project  are highlighted  in the Credit and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report. Special conditions of the Credit are summarized
in Annex III.
41.         The proposed Project would be the second phase of a long-term
program to develop basic forestry services, promote tree planting by
farmers, and establish plantations supplying fuelwood, building poles and
timber. The Project would provide an important contribution to institution
building by strengthening the Forestry Department, particularly its
capacity  to manage  investment  programs and staff  training.   It would
include support for new research programs in agroforestry and pilot schemes
to promote an integrated sylvo-pastoral approach, and training of charcoal
makers.
Project description.
42.       The proposed Project would comprise the following components:
(a) development of 90 government-run rural nurseries (about one
per commune) including expansion of 60 existing nurseries
and establishment of about 30 nurseries; development of
forestry extension services and a pilot agroforestry scheme;



- 14 -
(b) an agroforestry program, including studies, trials and
training    in    agroforestry,    charcoal-making,    forest
exploitation and wood utilization;
(c) establishment of 3,000 ha of eucalyptus plantations, and
1,500 ha of pine plantations;
(d) The protection, maintenance and silvicultural treatment of
plantations  established under the Phase I project (about
2,000 ha of eucalyptus and 4,000 ha of pine);
(e) initiation of a pilot program to promote integrated
sylvo-pastoral activities in a few selected plantation areas
with high population density;
(f)  institutional  strengthening  of  tne  Forestry  Department
through the creation of a planning and monitoring unit, and
two new regional forestry inspectorates, including support
for additional staff, buildings, equipment and running
costs, and strengthening of the Project management unit.
43.        Rural nurseries.  The rural nurseries program was started under
the First Forestry Project and it would be consolidated and expanded. At
present 60 nurseries are operating, one per commune.   Under the proposed
Project, 30 new nurseries would be established and operated.  This would
provide seedlings to be planted by farmers on their farmland and by com-
munes in small woodlots.   As the nurseries would have simple facilities
consisting of open nurseries shaded by grass roofs, investment costs would
consist essentially of incremental operating costs (supplies and labor).
Before new nurseries are established the Project Unit would carry out a
review of each commune to determine the optimal location of each nursery
and of areas  appropriate for demonstration plots and the needs and pre-
ferences of the local population for tree seedlings (Section 3.05 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.         An agroforestry program to promote land use systems in which
trees are combined with agricultural crops and/or animal husbandry would be
initiated and carried out in close association with the rural nurseries
principally through demonstration plots to be established close to each
nursery.   Given Burundi's critical land shortages which rule out large
plantation programs and the close links between the forestation, soil
erosion and decreasing fertility, agroforestry has a critical importance.
It would permit increases in farm productivity through integrated farming
systems which combine trees with a variety of crops (e.g. fodder trees,
shade, fruit production, etc.).   Although farmers already practice some
traditional forms of agroforestry in Burundi, a well-prepared and proven
agroforestry  technical  package  suitable  for  Burundi  is  still  to  be
developed. A pilot research would therefore be initiated in liaison with
ISABU. It would rely heavily on the infrastructure and extension services
provided from rural nurseries. Major activities would include carrying out
surveys to determine farmers' needs and preferences, training extension
workers, monitoring progress and implementation of research and trials.



- 15 -
Support would be provided by visiting consultants and/or institutions with
expertise in agroforestry (Section 3.08 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
45.        Forestry extension services would be improved through the train-
ing of local forestry technicians, nurserymen and nursery "moniteurs" who
would be integrated irtn the forestry service (they are now employed on a
temporary basis).  Since the communes do not have the capacity to run such
a service, the objective would be to develop a small national forest exten-
sion service, which would be responsible for promoting private tree plant-
ings and ensuring an effective link between research and farmer acti-
vities. The links between forestry and agricultural extension are expected
to be further developed in the context of an agricultural services project
currently under preparation for IDA financing.
46.         The plantation program would continue and expand the program
started under the first project. The eucalyptus plantation program would
contribute to meeting the substantial demand for firewood ic the urban
areas. The pine plantation program would contribute to supplying timber to
the industrial wood users' market.   The Government confirmed at negotia-
tions the exact location of all the planting sites and that the necessary
legal arrangements to ensure land availability for planting have been
made.   Commercial exploitation of the eucalyptus plantations established
under the First Project which would only become productive and progres-
sively self supporting towards the end of the implementation of the
Project, would be conducted under management arrangements satisfactory to
the Association. (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.        Agro-sylvo-pastoral pilot activities.  During the implementation
of the Phase I Project opposition was encountered over use of land for
plantations by the population living at some of the planting sites,
particularly at Vyanda in Bururi Province because of land scarcity and
competition for use with grazing.  To address this particular problem the
project will include a small pilot program designed to support crop and
livestock activities of farmers in plantation zones, both to alleviate
tensions and to ensure balanced, integrated development of agricultural
production  in  those  areas.    These  activities  would  include measures
designed to improve inter alia grazing techniques, animal health,
cultivation  methods  and  soil  protection,  and  would  complement  the
agroforestry research program in exploring ways to promote an integrated
approach to tree planting and crop and livestock activities.
48.           Training and studies.   During the First Project, forestry
training (financed by UNDP) was mainly at the technician level.   These
needs are now reasonably met.   Under the proposed project,  therefore,
training programs would concentrate on the professional (forestry engineer)
level and the level of "moniteurs and extension workers, particularly in
agroforestry. Other areas for training would include operational training
in areas such as charcoal production, forest exploitation and wood use.
The project would also finance studies and trials in agro-forestry,



- 16 -
charcoal making, forest exploitation and wood utilization.   The terms of
reference of studies would be established by the Ministry of Agriculture
and submitted to WA for approval (Schedule 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
49.         Project and sub-sector management support.   The project would
support the establishment of two new units in the Forestry Department. The
Planning and Monitoring Unit would have overall responsibility for forestry
sector  planning,   investment,  and  management  of  forestry  resources,
coordination of external assistance and implementation of policy measures.
It would monitor and in some instances carry out studies related to the
forestry sub-sector.   The Management Unit would have responsibility for
managing day-to-day operations including forestry extension services at
provincial and communal levels and collection of fees. (Project management
units, including the unit which manages the IDA-financed projects, would
come under this service).  In addition, the Forestry Department would be
strengthened at the regional level as two inspectorates would be
established,  one for Bujumbura and one for Bururi.   The project would
finance the completion of the Forestry Department headquarters and the
development of facilities for the new regional inspectorates at Bujumbura
and Sururi.
Project Organization and Management
50.        The project would be implemented over a five year period under
the responsibility of the Forestry Department of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock.    Management arrangements would be similar to
those which were established under the First Project and which have worked
satisfactorily.    A  strengthened  Project  Management  Unit  within  the
Department would continue to be directly responsible for the development
and operation of rural nurseries and the eucalyptus and pine plantations as
well as for ensuring coordination of all applied research activities with
ISABU, and project agriculture/livestock activities with the relevant
services in the Departments of Agriculture and Livestock (Section 3.0O
ofthe draft Development  Credit  Agreement).    Each  plantation would  be
managed  as a separate unit.  These units would prepare their individual
work plan, budget and progress reports which would then be aggregated by
the Project Management Unit.   Overall monitoring and evaluation of work
would be the responsibility of the Director General of Agriculture, who
would delegate responsibility to the Director of Forestry for day-to-day
operations (Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Staffing.  Four expatriates would be required for implementation
of the proposed afforestation program: one silviculturist would be the
Project manager; one silviculturist would manage eucalyptus plantations,
and another one the pine plantations; a rural forestry specialist, assisted
by three volunteers would manage the rural nurseries and agro-forestry
components. The costs of these technical assistance services, representing
20 man/years, would be financed by FAC and it is anticipated that CTFT



- 17 -
would continue to provide services as they have under the first project.
Appointment  of  these  specialists  would  be  a  condition  of  Credit
effectiveness   (Section  6.01  (b)  of  the  draft  Development  Credit
Agreement). Short-term consultant services, representing 50 man/months, 10
of which would be financed by FAC, would also be provided. It is expected
that technical assistants would be phased out toward the end of the
proposed  project period  as qualified and  fully-trained national  staff
become available. As for local staff, the implementatiou of the proposed
Project would require three forestry agronomists, one financial expert, one
mechanic, 10 assistant foresters, one permanent nurseryman and one
extension worker per nursery, as well as 12 to 14 extension workers, 4
nursery men for the plantations and 23 support staff.  One of the forest
agronomists would be deputy technical director of the Project.  A training
specialist would head the Livestock--Agriculture unit; he would be assisted
by one livestock specialist and one agronomist. The implementation of the
livestock activities would require three livestock technicians, three
assistant-veterinarians,  and 12 support staff.   Agriculture  activities
would require one technician ("chef de culture-) and four support staff for
each production and demonstration center, and five teams composed of one
team  leader  and  six workers  each.    Appointment  of  the  three  forest
agronomists  and  the  training  specialist  would  be  a  condition  of
disbursemert for the relevant Project components (Schedule I of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
52.        Annual Work Programs.  Implementation of all project activities
would be carried out on the basis of annual work programs and budgets
approved by the Director of Agriculture and by the ISABU Director General
for the agroforestry  applied  research  component, and  by  IDA.   These
documents would be submitted to IDA by September 30 in each year (Section
3.03 and Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The annual
work plan and budget would include: (a) a brief evaluation of the previous
year's performance as compared to objectives and a discussion of how
results obtained are related to the new program; (b) detailed investment
and operating budgets; (c) a description of the program of activities,
including quantified implementation objectives, output performance and
project impact indicators, where appropriate; (d) staffing and training
plans with a statement of specific objectives; (e) a financing plan; and
(f) a procurement plan. The training plans would provide for the transfer
of responsibility to Burundi staff (Section 3.07 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.        Total project costs are estimated at about US$17.0 million of
which 43% or US$7.3 million represent foreign exchange costs. Base costs
are in mid-1985 prices. A physical coutingency of 10% was applied to the
base cost estimates, technical assistance and consultants costs excepted,
to reflect general uncertainties on quantities to be purchased under the
Project. Price contingencies have been estimated on a cumulative basis at
a rate of 18X for 1985, 12% for 1986, and OX thereafter for local costs
and at a rate of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in 1987, 1988 and 1989 for
foreign costs.  Taxes included in the Project costs are negligible.  The
proposed IDA credit of SDR 13.0 million (US$12.8 million) would cover 75%



- 18 -
of project costs (excluding taxes and duties), including US$8.1 million
equivalent  in local costs.   FAC has agreed in  principle  to continue
financing  technical  assistance  for  the Project.    Fulfillment  of  the
conditioas precedent to the disbursement of the FAC grant would be a
condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section 6.01 (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).   To ensure the availability of adequate
local funds, the Project Unit would maintain a revolv'ng fund in which the
Governmeat contribution would be deposited quarterly, 4n advance (Section
3.01 (c) of the 4raft Development Credit Agreement). Deposit of the first
Government contribution would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit
(Section 6.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.        Pricing principles and mechanisms.  Pricing mechanisms would be
established for each major category of forest products as follows:
(i)   Seedlings.   During  the implementation  of  the First Forestry
Project, the price of seedlings sold to farmers was gradually
raised so as to cover approximately half of production costs and
was then maintained at that level. This practice would continue
under the proposed Project.   The Project Unit would review the
production costs of seedlings annually and prices for the
different categories of seedlings would be revised annually in
order to recover at least half of the costs in the case of
farmers purchasing up to 100 seedlings a year and at least the
full  cost  for  purchases  of  over  100  seedlings,  which  are
considered commercial purchases.   Seedlings would be sold to
communes.   On a limited, experimental basis, seedlings would be
given free only to schools and other non commercial institutions
(Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   The
subsidy implied in the above prices is justified because of the
vital importance of promoting tree plantings.
(ii)   Pricing of products of the eucalyptus and pine plantations.  The
oldest eucalyptus and pine plantations of the First Forestry
Project are expected to become productive towards the end of the
Second Project. Present prices for forestry products are clearly
too low and a key objective of the Government is to ensure full
cost recovery for the products of the plantations as soon as
possible  after  production  starts.   However,  in  the case of
eucalyptus and pine fuelwood, the price increases required to
achieve full cost recovery within a few years would be difficult
to enforce and could have a negative impact, by encouraging
illegal  cutting.      Therefore,  a  detailed  price  mechanism,
acceptable to the Association, would be established by December
31, 1988 for the determination of prices for the products of the
eucalyptus and pine plantations, based upon a stumpage rate study
and taking into account the market conditions, including
alternative sources of energy, delivery costs and availability of
products  from  other  plantations.    Such  mechanism  would  be
designed with the aim of recovering the plantations'  cost -f
investment, operations and maintenance (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). While this mechanism would not in
itself guarantee full cost recovery, it would ensure that the



- 19 -
price charged would not be below what the market will bear. In
the case of pine timber, which is scarce and would substitute for
costly imports, stumpage rates would be progressively raised so
as to be fixed by December 31, 1989 at levels expected to cover
full costs and would be adjusted annually thereafter to maintain
such levels in real terms (Section 4.04 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). IDA would be consulted on marketing, proces-
sing and pricing of the products of the pine plantations (Section
4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements and Procurement
55.       Disbursements.  Funds from the credit would be disbursed over six
and one-half years on the following basis:
(i)  9U0  of total expenditures for civil works, and the direct
costs of plantation development;
(ii)  vehicles,   equipment  and   materials:   100X   of  foreign
expenditures or 95Z of local expenditures for ex-factory
price  and  85Z  of  local  expenditures  for  other  goods
purchased locally.
(iii) 100% of labor expenditures for plantations establishment;
(iv) labor expenditures for new plantation maintenance: 100% of
total expenditures until an amount of SDR 200,000 has been
disbursed, 60% thereafter until a total of SDR 350,000 has
been disbursed and 30% thereafter;
(v) 100X of foreign expenditures for consultant services,
surveys, training, audit, monitoring and evaluation costs;
(vi) 40% of total expenditures for operating costs of project
administration.
A revolving fund (Special Account) of US$0.3 million, financed under the
Project, would be established in an account to be opened in a commercial
bank under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (Section 2.02 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). It would be replenished upon receipt
of documentary evidence to be provided by project management. The Forest
Department would claim reimbursement on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for: (i) civil works contracts costing less than
US$50,U00   equivalent;  (ii)  vehicles,  equipment,  goods,  services  and
operating costs for single items or contracts costing less than US$15,000
equivalent; and (iii) consulting services contracts costing less than
US$50,000  equivalent.   Withdrawals  for  local  expenditures  above  these
limits and for expenditures in foreign currency in excess of US$5,000
equivalent would be fully documented.



- 20 -
56.       Procurement.  Contracts for the supply of materials and equipment
exceeding US$80,000, wniich would total US$0.9 million, would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank/IDA guidelines.   Contracts for materials and equipment costing less
than USSlU,000, totalling US$3.1 million, would be awarded following
standard Government procedures provided price quotations are obtained from
three suppliers. Civil works (US$1 million) would be too small to attract
the interest of international firms and would be awarded to local
contractors following local procedures which ensure adequate competition.
The planned procurement procedures are summarized in Annex IV.
Accounts and Audit
57.        The Project management unit would maintain accounts adequate to
explain all Project  activities.   Project  accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.  The auditors would specifically
review and comment on the procedures used for disbursement against
statements of expenditures and would make proposals for improving Project
management and accounting systems. The audited accounts would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Project Benefits and Risks
58.         Benefits.  The principal output from the Project would be the
seedlings pioduced by the rural nurseries and distributed to farmers. It
is estimated that 13.5 million seedlings would be planted by farmers. This
would meet the fuelwood and pole needs of approximately 60,000 rural
families or about 8% of the farming community.  The production of pine
timber (60% of total pine volume produced) would result in significant
foreign exchange savings by the turn of the century.   The project's new
eucalyptus plantations would, by the mid-nineties, produce an average of
66,000 m3 per annum for several decades of which some 16,000 m3 would be
for poles and 5,000 m3 for fuelwood.   This would be enough  for the
production of b,000 tons of charcoal.   An Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
based on the net incremental benefits of the Project's commercial
plantation investment, representing 50% of the project investment, is
estimated at 24x. If yields were reduced by 10%, the rate of return would
be reduced to 22%. If benefits were to be delayed by one year, the rate of
return would be reduced to 21%.
59.         In addition to these quantifiable benefits, the project would
assist in developing developing an effective forestry service, as well as
promoting  agroforestry and developing an integrated agro-sylvo-pastoral
approach. The rural nurseries and agroforestry component would encourage
the rural population to reduce the use of agricultural residues for fuel
which would improve soil fertility and reduce soil erosion. Finally, the
project would have a significant impact on employment as it is expected
that the regular full-time force would total some 2,000, while the
additional casual labor force would be at least 4,000 to 5,000 at peak
periods.   The main benefit expected from the proposed pilot scheme of
assistance to livestock would be to promote   gradual change in grazing
practice from extensive ranching to stall-feeding of cattle.



- 21 -
bo.         Risks.  The Project does not involve unusual risks.  The prin-
cipal risk ot the Project is that managemer.t performance could be lower
than expected, resulting in a slowdown of the afforestation programs. This
risk will be reduced by the presence of a technical assistance team.
Approp-iate provision has been made for fire prevention measures. Pressure
to convert forest land to family farms is frequently cited as a risk for
forestry  projects  in Burundi.   The  proposed Project has significantly
decreased the surfaces proposed for commercial plantations in the
preparation report and increased the surface to be planted at the farm
level to lessen illegal cuts by farmers in commercial plantations or in the
natural  forests.    Furthermore,  commercial  plantations  would  not  be
established in areas where a potential for cultivation exists.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.         The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Burundi and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the  Association  are  being  distributed  to  the  Executive  Directors
separately.
62.        Special conditions of the project are listed in section III of
Annex III of this Report.  Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the appointment of technical assistants; (b) the deposit of the first
quarterly Government contribution; and Cc) the fulfillment of conditions
precedent to the disbursement of the FAC grant.   Special conditions  of
disbursement would be the recruitment of three forest agronomists and of a
training specialist.
h3.         I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreemenc of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
May Z3, 1985



- 22 -                                                Axlnnex I
ASE * *                                          Page 1 of 5
CD131                 - SOCTAL INrT DATA SHUT
DARwiR                          Max =     cavori  (3tl2D  AVEAS) l
MShaT         toe  IaNCT US)   b
.96ab    197aL.       new          CLRS INCO   A    5       TIN A lS)
NSININ   1       O01  OF SAHARA      UtICA 5. or sAHARA
ARM ( SA  SQ. E)
TOA                                 2.       27.8         274
ACICRLTURAL                        13.6      1S.8         22.3
Cy a aCu   (08$)                      40.0    110.0         230.0 1'            249.1              1112.9
-   wOan tI U an
(XILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUVALENT)        4.0       7.0         1M0                 62.                329.0
POULATOM  D VITL STAZInO
POPULATIONMID-YEAr (THOUSANDS)    Z927.0   330.0        43  -0
ARaI  POPUATION (Z OF TOTAL)        2.2       2.2          2.4 A/             19.2                23.
POPULATION  ROECTIONS
POPUATIN IN TER 2000 (HILL)                              7.4
STATIONURY POPULATION (NULL)                            26.7
POPULATION HDIEHCb                                       1.9
POPULATION DNITSY
PER SQ. aI.                      1OS.2    120.4        152.0Oa/             32.5                55.3
PER SQ. M. AQ1. LUn              188.2    178.2        190.0               119.2               111.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-L4 YRS                         42.6     43.8         44.2                45.6                45.4
1-64 IRS                         54.6     53.2         52.7                31.5                51.7
65 AND AOVE                        2.9      3.0          3.1                 2.9                 2.9
POPUIATION CRW5TH RATE (Z)
TOTL                               1.5      1.3          2.2                 2.6                 Z.8
URBAN                              1.8      1.3          2.8                 6.2                 5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RAZE (PU TOS)          45.2      46.3         46.5.               48.6                47.0
CRUDE DEUN RATE (PiR T0US)         25.2      24.3         1S.2                17.7                15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             Z.7       2.9          2.9                 3.2                 3.2
FAMLY PLANINGS
ACCEPTORS. ANNUIL (THOUS)          ..
USERS (Z OF HARRIED WM=            *-        *-
FOOD AM   11SIT1O
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      103.0    100.0         96.0                85.5                91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY or
CALORIES CE OF REQUXIREMETS)      95.0    102.0         95.0                66.4                98.2
PRoTEINs (GRAS PER DAnY)          59.0     63.0         60.0                49.9                56.7
OF WICX AERA  AND PULSE         29.0     31.0          31.0 Ic            18.3                17.0
CHULD (AGES 1-4) DrATH RATE         31.0     29.4         23.5                23.8                18.7
ELY-n
LIFE ErPECI. AT  rR1TH (YER)        38.6     41.5         46.3                48.4                51.7
INFANT PST. RATE (PER THOUS)       143.0    136.0        123.0               117.5               102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE VATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                               ..       ..            ..               21.8                35.6
URBAN                                      77.0         94.0 /d             61.5                54.1
RCRAL                               ..       ..           ..                14.2                27.3
ACCESS TO ECRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTL                                ..       ..            ..               32.0
MUAN                                ..     96.0         95.0 /d             69.2
RURAL                               ..       ..            ..               24.                    .
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         98900.0  55830.0      45020.0 /a          27477.8             11948.3
POP. PER NRSING PERSON            4640.0   7490.0       6180.0 7i           3396.2              2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            900.0    740.0           ..              1069.0               986.9
lilAN                             30.0    110.0           ..               395.2               368.7
RURAL                           3610.0   1070.0           ..              3094.0              4012.1
AMISSIONS PE HOSPITAL SH              ..       ...
aII
C-.ERAZE SIZE OF HOUSEHLO
TOTAL                               ..       ..          4.3 Id
URBAN                               ..       ..          5.s 7
RURAL                                                    4.373
AVERAGL NO. OF PERSODNSIRO
TOTAL                              ..        ..
URB                                ..        ..
RAL                                 ..       ..
AMCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINCS)
TorAL                               ..       ..          0 Id
URBAN                              ..        ..         22.5 7.
ERRAL                               * --



-23 -                                             Annex I
TASLC 3A                                          Page 2 of 5
DIIUIIDI              C- mOCAL INlIcrTms DATA ShEET
D    L                               REFERENCE CROCPS (WEIGRTED AVERAGES)f
HOST                   (MOST RECENT ESTIATE) /b
RECENT         LOW INCOME AFRICA       MIDDLE  tCII
zo9au    197niatk    iSTMArT          SOOT OF SAMA         AFRICA S. or SAAJA
AWUSTED EINROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  1.0       29.0          32.0                69.2                91.0
IULE                    27.0     39.0          40.0                78.m                 90.5
FRILE                    9.0     19.0          25.0                57.6                 73.6
SECONARY: TOTAL                    1.0       2.0           3.0                13.1                 17.4
KALE                     1.0      3.0           4.0                17.6                 23.7
FULE                     1.0      1.0           2.0                 8.3                 14.b
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)         35.0      13.6          15.7                 7.2                  5.3
PUPIL-TEACHE RATIO
PRIMARY                           36.0      37.0          39.0                46.1                 38.6
SECOINDaY                         15.0      11.0          16.0 lc             25.9                24.3
ADULT LITERACY LATE (I)             13.9 i      *.          25.0                44.3                35.6
corrro
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND 7PO          1.0       1.1          :.3                  3.8                20.7
RADIO RECEIVES{TIVOUSAND POP          ..      19.4          36.5                41.9               100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..        ..           ..                  2.0                18.5
NEWSPAPER -DAlILY GENRAL
IN uEr) CIRCULATION
PEZR THOSASD POPULATION             ..       0.1           0.4 /.              5.4                17.2
CINDMA ANNUAL ATTEUDANCE/CAFPTA      0.1 If   0.0            0.0                 1.4                 0.3
A URCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TMOUS)         1534.0   1676.0         2032.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  45.9      45.3          44.6                36.5                33.8
AGIlCULTURE PECENT)               90.0      87.0          84.0                77.4                57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.0       4.0           5.0                 9.8                17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             52.4      5D.0          46.5                41.0                36.3
KALE                              58.3      56.9          53.2                52.1                 &7.6
FEtiLE                            46.9    4M.4            40.6                30.2                25.1
ECONDOC DEPESDEMC RATIO              0.9       0.9           1.0                 1.2                 1.4
lNE DISERIRUTM
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOIE
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5 OF IOOSZEOLOS            ..
HIGHEST 202 OF ROUSEIOLDS           ..
LOWEST 20S OF NOUSENOLDS            ..
LOWEST 40I OF HiOUSEHOLDS           ..
_wuv Tnw  -RWS
LSTUIHTEO ABSOLUTE POVETY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
UR                                  .         .          213.0 lb            16t.3               525.3
RURAL                               ..         .        136.0                 90.6               249.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY ICOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBA                                ..        ..           ..                107.7               477.L
RURAL                               ..        ..          37.0 /h             65.0               186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (C)
URBAN                               ..        ..          55.0 lb             34.7
RURAL                               ..        ..         85.0 T               65-4
..  NOT AVAILARLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for eaca  indtcator are populstlo-weigbted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries smong tht
indicators dependa on avallabillry of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted. -ht& for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Dota for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Iost Recent Estimte- between 1980 end 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1979; /e 1975; /f 1962; aL 1976; /b 1978.
the following figures reflect the met recant avilable sstates;a                                        JUlNE. 1984
11 240; 2/ 5;  3/ 15S.



- 24-
Annex I
gene..m f  IA IOCT                                                                     Page  3  of  5
i.e...itseetah t. dat.*.a bss lie *aefa gaarciialailt  if... Patttiai.  tSntai. S.*.ci  a..: a. aU                        A 1 t Shi    rinatel ha ietetatlattallity
aip. t.  a.    .5rh  I.d. at eeatct.ritale i.aatetta    adt Ia-trt  aSa-ditte    cpl   I.ttII   ltted Ta.  ii  dii. an eaccaielcate. c..hiV  A
r.at, W-.    a -dpt " eaaica IIIth.   a. *-d,Ia    alsaae4       a          ash-.- ItP III.a.P  -heta-erca 'I...,edt    ew         Pm     ,- IP   .Petd     lw.
at.: rc.rc.. gra,e .#c li  time    ao.ar 1Agi &a,.P=                I     ilw_t tecjtt'c.a Ii Adta-r deatde   -6th cal -Wt.". higerd0 c-crag  iAM dAAe IRP aet It-c  ti    P
*ahj.itA-icrd-p  Pat  Up.   6.c-  _i aera.  grac    Vetlli.la                           Pf   it.-f5it. -105ct" c c              e.. .hAtrac.9 IIPpP      eap Attleegiat    te
-e yailcaia.   m.r ae rtt. iced an              . ..5  Sala   -ta ..'I-.                      uiiii tedpliiiit tal W. T...   dl- icWee   a   aciaclatylae
.s `in    at..      p..  11j....   .W                                                           ...d W  9r.atML.11IM E;   tta..  a a.1 actc,PeAL al  af   a
,Peete-, tedhe  -d kit.b.eac t.r-.   .                                                     -t apSt  cadranW-Aaiatt. itacl
2t.~.fhLL13h2. -          e4. ... c .p.it-ct.-   ra tat   eh-.dtaii.  l                               aw1  pAholas aaed gtitet  pecale I ci  p-iat. t ..p.t..i
aa.aacdh..   caa.tt  -.nd  a. arid latieta M I  itOa   acaithhttct.n-at    tplcaac  aal-ei   ..-ttrea
I.m. Peed                                                          ZM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a.. laa lagtiedad-   fteat fspiai.   aar  tc.hAPPaithL atil
titus   mwiw.  FCWIT  -  ae.  paas   c.tptta   c-.ta                                            ic   at    a playrie.c.i A1, ailS 1deaf   lhfl1,1t.t Ia-idehr a mtaai
cad dcat.P.a  *iatrtaila hitc, rc.t cCcf   a.ctse pr                       Ic   -t                prti- ate  Itteclciraec  teiaa   P.t   titiitt.atdgte
ut.. cci ia- data.                                                                      Mw1zf-t4ar-lal"          r P -   ttta  ...a  P9 aaicati     a-dahPc
-,P  -ra dLt-                                                         teete~~~~~~~~~~-yaftaliialj-MtaU       t.ha . t had..
."      i        c.r                   .9 lair ii                                         P-I. .ILe. d,tat     tast 'maPP
Atm. ead    a de..                                                     !1MUSIMPRIMI~~~~~aaa.aetl. tt  c..aMt  .a- 'It" ..ci~   .s.,  .t.ilc   i   a
K MIS USLON"    ~~Wlt     -_h1 tt  -i ).rI,  a, eata   aaIc?"    itt; M.                      ctaair.teai   rna  iitcl                            b.  lte    c
mm    .   1- tat        .f  Atai - B'&  aPi .t ...ta.thItl   tica   fIr Wm al wai        a   -ee                                    icdiar dL -    ta    -, ha Itadc   i
-tSla ar!f,ttCrt.-ft-,ctp.jtt.-.t   ca       ea                                                      t prc    ar    ~i ati  pa.,  da!s i itSttai
A.IipUit9..LPP by        ad --ti ae.d tlaite    -.nat,tree  iaraiit                          dciI.-  Pltt  tl.tciitttn                         tcata   taat   r
rat-.   Prjci.pca-tattr.fal taet            tatit p. r         t tr c M-srr Plt                             l.".
eacata-iaal.c      Pccat.~ Itrcdc    t  t  i-cl  ii  .eca-i
piati    la-taaI.  taPd,acctr  t'.tia  aa.ica   I.   thae  ic
-pitattt.   .9 Ir.-I.te   aL tL.tt rit.           l.14ptcjt    it.prc.                     MC-zlfLj.tt         tti
ttatttcta-araltict. t.ee ta act   g-0  ad. cas-tye Atiatraip                            ncy-   I.t-Ieal ad  tIci -- tea. aic. -ard                             i
Prt-t-Se P."t-t.  lAet     cddtr r.e.taaaa -etdabrt  rct ite  ,acccc                           a-r   a  date    .  errialqkt   lc                      iaa         a
aai eici  c it  Scae pa., te ci ctnlte PI a  laaatt,a   h                           .irst,hctts    iale    t.-i Aed aPecmetali. Ptrct
aeti. pata,  _IIc -a-m  cthser  pcpct.caa- ' cit                 ic        h                     lcccert   f   a-a-aa.tcarf-   a.i
Pde t, teeIlatt         P .hettfati    WteataiiIt th   arSrecrelct-ttt  e.a    .4a-C atti  .7..   ae.cir
tat,  dthert    i-a L-c e            -rptl tp - tarpar.c de.eer.tareti-9-                                           i-t  ea  rle   it 1 aswt  pfit   meritic1
-ada   t      .ta  r. iaa IttIai p a.lit   aabtda,ati;  he                                q).aWat  at-.  it-r   apr MM      i _ict aerrtpl aac-na  an..
i.mcet  eathtaeepiti.rth.rahd ate.mataeal  cAia.                                                                                        tat
c.actd, dii data.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pcea-ttra  fast. c -.-Icr. t.. l....r W-   ?ca   tiet   aetii
Pteata Arcat      ~                       .1tl,  tt tft.. -t, adi-it dAM.                  Matp ttrrrcrt rL. teaI I.r II ettrai F di.  d.       -t               reda
-tat tata. eat. cad IrdeMVdata.
ta  iapt.  d  fttri lt r A..a eat       p.rci.1 it-tapPcccarCaa=r.  haa.  ceist.l-                                                    .     at`aI'ta  -aP
iar  criilc  c  Iiiai,a  ital-.   -.ar-t                                              ei  rret   c.te.t   cegaia      l  ec   tn-r   c   et
Ic cect . M a. tat AM   tE` ata                                                      tealfca  heeahe  tltae.td
Cfdaheth to   etaas,il-Iwctata  prt.a-  e-i-atliateca tttsaac  IIaice  -I  r.a1,,e-f  rat hf.cifcat                                                                    leta
tatahc    lo   tt   Sic   st.pea    i.a.tait etiiici a.                                                                                           ptic    sitc.d I   iar
tr.chet.c-itba.-s.r    nif.  a.amnc                         .ccie.ri                          t .e rt   tsi   -atcwareher.cre   t  a,a-iealii
rrcdfci.                                                                    tirtat. tate darlat aha c-r, tare...-.  PiiAet  Ta it-cI  Atbc- -
ttiih.t A c.t_ce  rr-M..la  at'm A.c.a te`.at      an.,                                                       t               P"
rPcattreia c-p t.ta at -c.tactaallc. tact' tare'ai ca-.c,  c ce  itMa pilite~1. A
I-ia siredrr-a..t-   ap  Arta  _e.a-lc4e.t     ta r.  I=acat                          t-la terera P-   faltar  atc.afcicatt tattaartcma
taycci prdayttat  t ail tada.critc.pradate  i ecricac  tan  aS         ifiraitae tpartcat - ithe  Parra h faritta,icratiryIheaat   a
tia  cc  a  -   ciada  ra' tac.  mitta  r-er,rtar  caac'---         c.t-ta     patac.a  ePI..t  hafPat.;etd,  ar cd   ice  ce
a.asfr'e ettad t  caici hacth ar ailta  ad  at PI -api tiei..                 ldcr  prae  P- t.   arte, f- cattA               - ataifeat. eacIarap    ad-
'atta- ~ ~ ~      ~       ~      ~     ~ ~        dd at   ca.i.acl    a-ir   rd.t.-    r   aaf  ercatic    c-   c   c.   ea.la   tttlihe fct';Ita  i
tast at c-neal ciarcia .a.accttr eric. ccaiaht.: titi-at.  attf-. -d  itaz  -
iii..                                                   *cfa cti..ttat cta tarricai - taaal. at., ad ii     - e         ttl ctri
- ,ptc.ar   t  etlciafii  trtcr-cli-  .tpit  r.ar .Iertt   ftn-l-      arl  '-air  adplt P. eftrt 
eetpa  tteaitt t te  tS tpete.  t,   la   e rca    pat1 a-eta paAartic    iraa.ci   dreirartt..t   iicc   crt.r
sa-ccthacplc   c-rc  dc.t   rd.t.,trtLt                                               at'  it   c    t   a.   ha    -  aa        i'   irtpta   ae
--I- -titriel.  I-c9pa-ata    ditataI  cta  tat)cIc
.aa A-.ctt-L  a.-aPP  res  pr .ta-I    . c   c  it ar.I    aP1 aacc  cat1   I                                                .    [               L:M.M
pIdc  At.a  -.1 at.'   It te   -hec.id  -e -ailr.1     tt.ica                              art   at?a
f-fCattcftai' --ci a.c.caeacadacia    frira iai  cira.                        atairtaearrr  cta  ltattathe    a     itciC-t  aitr  aalai-
dart.-                                                                                    carIrPa Ie.hte..7
mie cai  ictet' trt pa   tea    -Idaacti ic.ih%cIhiaa   .ri.iicera  eatttr                                                    aiii   a  at.      r-a    ac 
a-.ira   -hta.   tralra   tat   -  ca.  a                iaala                        crttl-tcpasrrt niea  I  i-tia.4cc.   -  rpr
,atila dA.   dat-cdta   i    aii   e.   taietitr.cicc   .acri   i    rt                                                          ra    aaI   ata    t   i   ac
'!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-  ltida airfttae cit tlt titt  n
traytt. t-ld  trcttla tt. aALta  PereA...  L-c iare.t   am'



- 25 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA
AREA                                             I NUAT                                      Es;mf
27,865 kIZ                           4.3 millon (Idd 1982)                           155 kaZ of dtal
Total Agriculture 17,200 kaZ         Pate of goE  2.4Z (1977-)
FWRATIt4 CBAcR193S  190D                                         HFAIZ (1979)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)         45                         lPapslatl  pwr fyaicmm    45U,(O
Qude Daath Hate (per 1,0)0)          22                          Paplation per bpital bad    744 (1970)
ACCSS AD ElIlD WAMER                                             ACCSS 7D ECV       Y
Urbm popultit, Z                     94                          X of populatiom - tota          2
- tria          (a
NLimcN t (1974-78)                                                MrATMr  (1978-)
Calorie it as X <of requireonts    99                            Ault liteucy Xate I            25.0
Per capLta proteintake (gris/day)  61                            Pr har eill        X           30.0
GNP PE CAP7T  Di 19S3  US$240
nDcISr PCO                                                       AmurL BAE ( GEM  (1,    t   prie)
1983 b1u
15SlIU1n         X              1970-77              19783
GIP at Markt  prLces                 1,110.3         100.0               3.1                  2.5
Grow Dmstic Inve ot                    141.1         12.7               28.3                  8.4
Gross Nltiorm  SavIrg                   12.6          L.1               17.7                 3.1
Qzxent Aorsm nefcidt                  -130.8        -11.8                  .2.5
E=ts oGE cows, GS                     107.8          9.7               -1.9                 5.5
Imports of Goods, GF                   26L.0         23.5                7.7                 6.0
cm=imml FAm ANiD EY1v! IN 1982
UXlb   adde                labo Focm            V.A. per wrker
1$hiiUsi        ___          '000           z        U
Agcultue                               595.Z         58.8        1,75Z          82.3       337.8   71.5
Tir   tY                               164.2         16.2          2W          12.6       606.1  128.6
Services                               252.7         25.0          109          5.1      2,3138.3  490.4
Tota1/Avge                         1.012.1        IoO.O        2,141        IC.!O        477 lD.O
_      __ZE   FNAC                            Conmtl Gmproit
(Ph MiLIon)      Pctof G13P
1983        1983      1978,12
Owret Ra_sie                        12,858           12.5       14.6
Qxrrent xpenditure                  13,470           13.1       12.0
OQrr:t 9upb,                          -612           0.b         2.6
Capital Dazditure b/                16,659           16.2       11.6
Erwt        Assis-                 (12,424)          12.1       (7.4)
a/ Atlas metlodologY-
T-ld  pic enterprises, fore4p fim A pcojeces, ad debt r.ama.
Nt aVpLicable
Not amaiLible.
Note: AU cmvezrioiu to daUnas in thls table are at the averge FThl per U;S e e  tte
peing 1udrg the  -   coered.



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
mm,         rr am! WaS                1978       1979        1960         1961         196       1983
aOSY and QuaSi-Mey                   9,696    1,034        12,681       15,698       15,378    19,452
Baok credit to Central G     wvermem  1,503     3,860       4,496        7,178        9,344   12,355
Bank credit to Pdvate Sector         5,835      8,367       9,793       12,760       12,976    14,570
(Fehcerxag or TN)ex Nber)
xiery and quid-ey as Z of GD          17.7       15.7        14.7         17.6         16.8      18.9
Ammial percentage cbange in:
Gez        Prieelindex                27.3       25.5        12.3         12.0          5.7      8.3
Bdk credit to  diblic Seetr          715.1      156.0        16.5         59.7         30.2     32.2
Bak creit to Private Sector          115.0       43.7        17.6         29.6          0.3     12.3
BAIANCE OF PAI1S                                                       NEXHANDw   EMMS  (ANVER   1978-83)
1979   1980   198    1982 1983                           US$  tlUo    z
Offlio  US Dollr1)
Exports (gS4Es)                    112      74     89    1(3  100   Caffee                   70.5      87.8
Imports (gfnfs)                    193    205    20B    261  257   Cotton                    2.4        2.9
Resource gap (defLcdt          =-)1  -13           1       f -1 9 T   its                    2.2        2.8
AUl ot1er cditie  5.2           6.5
Inerest pyments (net)                4       9      7       3    4
labor 1                            -14    -16    -24    -31  -29                  MlAL   80.3         100.0
Net tmsfes                          34      47     48      5D   45
Baaue ca curen arcou=               57    =1r      j    -ID  -137
Direct foreigm 1nvestnt              -       1       1      2    1   E&L iEzr,   l l 31, 1983
Capdtal grans                       25      35     39      37   40
Net M     BDrr      a/              39      41     29      51   94
DIsbursmz'nts                     42      45     32      54   98                                   USSn
hAmrtizatim                        3       4      3       3   -4   Pkhic Debt, tl. gum=ees  284.0
Otber capLtal (net)                  -     -10     -6      -3    16            ed  Private Debt
O0ker i;m  NEI                     -11       7     -5      11  -17    TAc outstadiing & lLsb.
Incree In ret reserves  (-)          4       6     32      34  -16    lBT SWIC= RAIO  RB 1983 b/   Z
Gross reserves (end year)           86      90      72     42   54  RPulic DE!bt, mi. guaranteed   10.0
1L~ we PrLvate Debt
Imports of petrmle  products        13      25      32     3D   29   ThtAl wtstming axn disb.
MA, UL,,  M5arch 31, 1985
(HiflixiUS Dollars)
RA2X OF EHhAN: GE
Outstam:lfg & DLsbrsed         137.73
- FBu 9g  1976-Nbvember 23, 1983                                       Iblsbursed                      58.24
SMI = -23   Noeuber 23, 19-poesent                                           bursi                     195.97
a/ IND Debt Reporting Sysm
P Ratio of Debt SeLvice to Exports of Goods and No1factor Senrve.
Not available.



- 27 -
Annex II
(Page 1 of 2)
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
EXPRESSED IN US DOLLARS
(as of March 31, 1985)
Amount
Loan or                                                    US$million
Credit                                                (less cancellations)
Number      Year   Borrower       Purpose          Bank   IDA 2/ Undisbursed
One loan 1/ and eleven credits fully disbursed    4.8   48.73
918 BU 3/   1979   Burundi    Forestry              -      4.30       0.09
976 BU      1980   Burundi    Second Education   --       15.00       0.72
1049 BU     1980   Burundi    Urban Development   -       15.00       6.75
1058 BU     1980   Burundi    Telecommunications  -        7.70       2.18
1132 BU     1981   Burundi    Third Highway         -     25.00       0.29
1154 BU     1981   Burundi    Nickel Exploration  -        4.00       0.59
1165 BU 4/  1981   Burundi    Kirimiro Rural
Development       -      19.30      9.92
1192 BU     1982   Burundi    Integrated Rural
Dev./Ngozi III    -      16.00     10.73
1230 BU     1982   Burundi    Local Construction
Industry          -       5.20      3.14
1358 BU     1983   Burundi    Third Education       -     15.80       7.82
1419 BU     1983   Burundi    Ruzizi II Regional          15.00      11.81
1456 BU     1984   Burundi    Third Technical
Assistance                5.10      4.20
Total                               4.8   196.33      58.24
Of which has been paid          4.8     0.36
Total now outstanding           0.0   195.97
Amount sold 1.72
of which has been repaid 1.72
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                 0.00  195.97
Total undisbursed                                 58.24



- 28 -
Annex II
(Page 2 of 2)
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(as of March 31, 1985)
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor          Business           Loan    Equity    Total
1981      Verreries du    Glass container    4.8       0.8        5.6
Burundi
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, termlinations,
repayments and sales                         4.8     0.8       5.6
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                  4.8     0.8       5.6
Total undisbursed                              0.1     0.1        0.2
1/ Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for the
improvement of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of the lake
port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/ The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
USS1.2 million.
4/ Including a NORAD Grant participation of US$5.8 million.



- 29 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
r
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification             During supervision of the First
Forestry Project
(b)  Project Preparation        February 1984
(c)  Appraisal Mission          July 1984
(d)  Negotiations               May 1985
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness:   September 1985
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
Annual Work Plan including training arrangements (para. 53)
Section III: Special Conditions
-    Periodic review of sector policies and annual review of
investment program with IDA (para. 38)
-    Implementation of project activities to be carried out
according to annual work programs and budgets (para. 52)
-    Training plans included in the annual work program would
provide for transfer of responsibilities to Burundi staff
(para. 52)
-    Commercial exploitation of the plantation to be conducted
under management arrangements satisfactory to IDA (para.
46)
-    Price of seedlings would be reviewed annually (para. 54)
and stumpage rates would be reviewed annually to reach
progressively the objective of full cost recovery
(para. 54)
-    IDA to be consulted on marketing, processing and pricing
arrangements for the products of pine plantations (para.
54)
-    Revolving fund in local currency would be opened for
Government contribution (para. 53), and revolving fund in
foreign exchange financed from the credit (special
account) would be opened (para. 55).



-30 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Section IV: Special Conditions of Effectiveness
-    Appointment of technical assistants (para. 51)
-    Deposit of the first quarterly Government contribution in
the revolving fund (para. 53).
Section V: Conditions of Disbursement
-    recruitment of three forest agronomists and of a training
specialist for the relevant project components (para. 51).



- 31 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 1
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$million)
Project Element                  Procurement method                Total cost
ICB    LCB    OTHER    NA
Vehicles, Equipment          0.9    3.1                               4.0
& Materials               (0.9)  (3.1)                             (4.0)
Civil Works                          0.9                              0.9
Plantation establishment                             ;.7              5.7
(5.5)            (5.5)
Services                     0.3 a/          3.2 b/                   3.5
(0.3)          (0.6)                    (0.9)
Operating Costs,                                     2.8              2.8
Project Administration                            (1.5)            (1.5)
and Revolving Fund
Total               1.2    4.0      3.2    8.5             17.0
(4.0)  (4.0)   (0.6)  (7.0)            (12.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit.
a! Consultants for livestock and agriculture support activities
and audit.
b/ Including about US$2.6 million to be financed by FAC.



l   g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
BURUNDI
71,                          SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                ---
Prapasdmd'aeAnmntatafm (193S.19901
in  Eip
Pines
Euiqn Pit. I NUiimu (198001985)
O  E u_ypm
@"nm
C:Z~ Pmpmedrar.,tlnspcakm                     RWANDAi,
=~ Futwel Foe- kapedaroaWs
_W                                                  _ _               _ I  .   r, -
rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rw
4~~~~~~~~D
=r=
S < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T A  N  Z  A  N  I A|
"  ~~~URUR   ~~~                 0 ~10               20        369MI
l -                                              -  ' -  '%'"~     X,               .                  -  ,J
| e - ,MRURt_ 2 o -- lo io 3
0'W
-.35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .                                                                                    - 
.__
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __UG A N D A.



