DomamI(of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Repdt No. 5368-3'S
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY REPORT
May 17, 1985
Central Agriculture Division
Eastern Africa Projects Department
t1 s dsui    a - idui i       GM i   .n     be anus by h fie.s oly in _e pef.nuKc Of
thr1w 1ac   dw5m  as m.kib myt meiwide be d6d em widwwl WvM Bak aUdDSKhtim.



BURUNDI
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units             =       Burundese Franc (BuF)
US$1.00                    =       BuF 120.0
BuF 100                    =       US$0.83
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric               =        British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               =        3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m3)        =        35.3 cubic feet
1 hectare (ha) = 100 ares =        2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)          =       0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)           0.39 square mile (sq.mi.)
1 kilogram (kg)           =        2.20 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)               =        0.26 U.S. gallon (gal)
=       0.22 Imperial gallon (imp. gal)
1 ton (metric ton)        =        2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY
AFVP    -   Association Franraise des Volontaires du Progras/
French Volunteers
CTFT    -   Centre Technique Forestier Tropical/French Tropical Forest
Center)
EDF     -   European Development Fund/Fonds Europ$een de developpement (FED)
FAC     -   Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation/French Aid and Cooperation Fund
ILO     -   International Labor Organization
INCN    -   Institut National de la Conservation de la Nature/
National Institute for Nature Conservation
ISABU   -   Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi/
National Agricultural Research Institute
ITAB    -   Institut Technique Agricole du Burundi/Burundi Technical
Institute of Agronomy
MFCZN   -   Mission Francaise Crete Zaire Nil/French Forestry Zaire-
Nile Divide Mission
ONATOUR -   Office National de la Tourbe/National Peat Development Agency
SCM or  -   Stacked Cubic Meter (equivalent to approximately 0.6 cubic
stere         meter solid)
SRD     -   Societe Regionale de Developpement/Regional Development
Company
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
WFP     -   World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Burundi : January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
BURUNDI SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower    : Republic of Burundi
Beneficiary : Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Forestry Department
Amount      : SDR 13.0 million (US$12.8 million equivalent)
Terms       : Standard IDA terms
Project     : The proposed Credit would finance the second phase of a long-
Objectives    term afforestation program and assist the Government in
and           establishing long-term production and marketing policies for
Description   the sub-sector.  The main Project objectives are: (i) to
address the problem of growing wood demand of the population;
(ii) to reduce Burundi's need for imports of timber, timber
substitutes and fuel; (iii) to contribute to protecting the
natural environment; and (iv) to promote greater integration
of cropping, forestry and livestock activities at farm level
and to 'Launch an agro-forestry program. Ninety rural
nurseries (including about 30 new ones) would produce plants
for sale to the population. Agro-forestry would be promoted
to address the rural population's needs for wood, fodder,
shade and soil improvement. Pilot actions would be
undertaken in a few plantation areas to integrate
afforestation with livestock and agricultural improvement
activities. About 3,500 ha of eucalyptus and 1,500 ha of
pine plantations would be established in western Burundi; in
addition 2,000 ha of woodlots would be established in
communes all over the country.
Benefits    : The Project would benefit about 60,000 rural families. or
about 8% of the farming community by increasing their
supplies of fuelwood and poles. The eucalyptus and pine
plantations would serve the urban population by meeting the
needs for charcoal of about 60,000 people in Bujumbura. The
pilot activities would primarily integrate better
afforestation programs with agriculture and livestock.
Agroforestry research would define better means to improve
present farming systems. Finally, the Project would have a
significant impact on employment.
Risks       : The proposed Project does not involve major or unusual
risks. Limited land availability is the most important
problem in establishing large and medium sized commercial
plantations. To minimize this risk, legal arrangements
necessary to ensure the availability of planting sites would
be finalized before Board presentation. The principal
This document has a retrited disrbution and may be used by rcipients only in the perfonnc of
their ofric dutie Its wtents may not oherwise be disdosed wihout Wodd Bank authorization.



- ii -
economic risk of the Project is that management performance
will not reach expected standards, thus reducing productivity
of plantations and nurseries. This risk would be reduced by
the recruitment of a technical assistance team.
Estimated                               Local       Foreign       Total
Project Costs 1/                             -    -US$ million--
. Commercial plantations                  3.5         1.3           4.8
. Rural nurseries & agroforestry          2.1         0.2           2.3
. Agroforestry research                   0.0         0.2           0.2
- Maintenance of existing plantations   0.2           0.3           0.5
. Livestock and agriculture               0.6         0.9           1.5
improvement
. Institutional strengthening             0.6         2.9           3.5
. Scholarships and specialized training  -            0.2           0.2
Base Cost                                 7.0         6.0          13.0
Physical Contingencies                    0.7         0.4           1.1
Price Contingencies                       2.0         0.9           2.9
Total Project Costs                       9.7         7.3          17.0
Financing Plan          US$ Million Equivalent           X of Total
Local   Foreign   Total           Financing
IDA                     8.1       4.7      12.8           75
FAC                     -         2.6        2.6          15
Government              1.6       -          1.6          10
Total                   9.7       7.3      17.0          100
Estimated Disbursements
IDA fiscal year:          1985/86   86/87  87/88  88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92
--US$ millions
Annual                      0.2      1.8      1.8    2.8    3.4    2.0    0.8
Cumulative                  0.2      2.0     3.8    6.8   10.0   12.0   12.8
Economic Rate of Return: 24% on the commercial plantations component
representing 50Z of Project cost.
Map No: IBRD 18487
1/ Taxes are negligible



SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background .................................                    1
B.  The Agricultural Sector ................*... ....... .                  2
C.  The Forestry Sub-sector Issues and Strategy ........                    5
II.  GOVERNMENT SUPPORT AND POLICY FOR THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
A.  Forestry Institutions ........  ....          ..................        9
B.  Forestry Projects   ...........          ...............* ,    11
C.  The Quest for Wood .... ................0.................             12
D.  Government Strategy and Policy for the Sub-sector ..                   15
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  General Description .....               ...........e........            18
B.  The Project Areas   ..................................                  19
C .  Detailed Features          ......       ..................             20
D.  Project Costs ........*.*...O ..........            *..........................  25
E.  Financing  ................... ,......................                  26
F.  Procurement ..........                                     ....         27
G.  Disbursement ......... ... .....      ............. .........           28
H.  Accounts and Audit ................ 0........ ......                    29
I.  Environmental Impact *-  ....................... . .                    30
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization .. ... ........ ..        ............... .........         30
B. Management of Project Components                .....................    31
C. Annual Work Plans ... .............. . ...*..  ........... * .           33
D. Staffing .... ....................... *...................               34
E. Implementation and Monitoring ............. .          .........         35
V.  TECHNICAL AND PRODUCTION ASPECTS
A. Technical Aspects             ....................................       35
B. Production Aspects ..............            ...................         37



- ii-
Page
VI.  MARKETS AND PRICES, FINANCIAL AND FISCAL ANALYSIS                  No.
A. Marketing and Prices ........ .........................         42
B. Financial Analysis .... ...............................         45
C. Fiscal Analysis                                   ......        46
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits ......                        .. ......                47
B. Justification ... .....                  ... .......            48
C. Risks and Uncertainty ................................          49
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED                                                 50
Supporting Tables, Schedules, Charts and Annex
Table: 1 - Forestry II Cost Table by Category
2 - Government Cash Flow with Project
3 - Economic Rate of Return - Flows of Costs and Benefits
4 - Financial Rate of Return - Flows of Costs and Benefits
Schedule 1   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Chart 1       Implementation Schedule
Chart 2       Forest Department Organization Chart
Annex 1       Statistics and Data on the Forestry St.b-sector
Annex 2       Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map           IBRD 18487



BURUNDI
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The proposed Project would follow directly from the IDA-financed
Forestry Project (Credit 918-BU) and was identified during the latter
phases of implementation of the first project. In discussing future
investments, it was agreed that a modified approach to afforestation should
be adopted for a second phase project, involving greater emphasis on
integration of forestry within smallholder farming systems. The reasons
for this shift were that limited land availability was the main problem
under the First Forestry Project, and that Burundi's farmers give the
highest priority to improving crop and livestock enterprises. They are
thus most likely to plant and maintain trees if it benefits their farm
production overall. On this basis terms of reference for Phase II
preparation were prepared in 1983 by the Burundi Government, reflecting IDA
comments. The FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program was asked to assist with
preparation of a Second Forestry Project. An FAO/IBRD-CP preparation
mission visited Burundi in January/February 1984. It included an
agronomist, a livestock specialist, a forester and an economist, all of
whom were to address the recommended "agro-sylvo-pastoralV approach. Their
report was received at the Bank in May 1984. An IDA mission composed of
Messrs. Y. Gazzo and N. Brouard (IDA), J.C. Crouail, B. Ruet and P. Wood
(consultants) visited Burundi in June/July 1984 to appraise the Project.
The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) was represented by Mr. C. Taupiac,
forestry advisor attached to the Burundi Forest Department.
1.02      The Bank group is one of the major sources of development
assistance in Burundi. To date IDA has financed six agricultural projects,
of which three are completed, one is near completion (Forestry I, Credit
918-BU), and two others are being implemented. The Coffee Improvement
Project (Credit 147-BU, US$1.8 million), the Second Coffee Project (Credit
593-BU, USS5.2 million), and the Fisheries Development Project (Credit
262-BU, US$6 million) have been completed. The general conclusion of the
Project Completion Report, Performance Audit (Report No. 1531) and Impact
Evaluation Report (Report No. 3314) on the First Coffee Project (at Ngozi)
was that the project had achieved its objectives, although the quantitative
results were somewhat below appraisal estimates. The Second Coffee Project
(also at Ngozi) was to continue activities started under the First Project;
in addition, it included a food crop promotion component. The Second
Coffee Project PPAR (Report No. 4576) concluded that, overall, the project



-2-
was a qualified success. The coffee component achievements were above
appraisal estimates, while the food crop and livestock components were
below estimates. This project was more affected than the first by the lack
of trained and experienced staff, by insufficient and irregular Government
counterpart funds, and by heavy dependence on foreign assistance. A
Project Completion Report for the Fisheries Project was recently completed
and a PPAR will be issued shortly. Poor management was the principal
problem here and led to very disappointing results. Management problems
were explained both by a weak parastatal agency and inadequate technical
assistance in critical areas. The First Forestry Project (Credit 918-BU,
US$4.3 million) is nearing completion; it is described in greater detail in
paras 1.16 and 1.17.
1.03      The Kirimiro Project (Credit 1165-BU, US$19.3 million) and the
Ngozi III Project (Credit 1192-RU, US$16 million) are under
implementation. These two projects provide for a more integrated regional
development approach than the two earlier projects for the Ngozi Region.
They were designed to address key issues which emerged during the
implementation of the First and Second Coffee Projects. As such, they
involve substantial investments in institution-building, establishment and
reinforcement of rural extension services, construction of roads and
economic and social infrastructure, research, and a range of technical
marketing and policy studies. They reflect lessons learned from previous
Bank-supported projects and represent an attempt to respond to the
Government's broader approach concerning rural development (para 1.08).
Nonetheless, these two projects have experienced implementation
difficulties caused by lack of qualified local personnel and of counterpart
funds, and by uneven technical assistance performance. These problems are,
however, being addressed and implementation has improved significantly.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.04      General.  Agriculture is Burundi's most important economic
activity. More than 90% of the population depends directly on
agriculture which also provides the lion's share of foreign exchange
earnings. During the 1970s, agriculture accounted for an average of 60% of
GDP, but its share fluctuates with the performance of food crops and coffee
production.
1.05      Burundi has a rich endowment for agriculture, but faces mounting
pressure on its limited land resources from a growing population.
Virtually all good land is cultivated (30% of the total land). Altitude
and rainfall vary broadly (11 different natural zones are defined for land
classification purposes) and most crops can be cultivated. On the other
hand, the hilly topography renders modern farming difficult and has
contributed to grave and growing soil erosion problems; control of soil
erosion is a priority Government objective. Of land potentially available
for agriculture, about 40% is under crops, 31% is used for grazing, 7% is



-3-
forest and an estimated 20% is unclassified; the latter remains to be
assessed in detail because it consists of steep slopes, temporarily
unoccupied grazing land and soils of low quality. Burundi's farmers are
primarily smallholders and there are about 700,000 farming units. Because
of high population density (160 per km2 -- one of the highest in Africa)
farm size is very small at 1 ha. Although all land in Burundi technically
belongs to the State and is administered by local authorities (the
communes), most land holdings are governed by a combination of traditional
law and recent Government regulations. In practice crop land is held by
individual families while all pasture land is communally held. Small areas
are farmed commercially under more formal individual tenure arrangements.
1.06      Traditional subsistence farming dominates agricultural
production; production systems are characterized by high labor intensity
and the use of traditional methods and rudimentary tools (mainly hoes and
machetes). Farming systems are relatively complex, with substantial
intercropping and multiple crops grown on most farms. Farmers use organic
fertilizer, as available, but little chemical fertilizer; chemicals are
used on coffee and cotton for insect control. Animal traction is largely
unknown. Fallow periods, particularly in the highlands, have been
decreasing because of population pressure, and this has resulted in
overcultivation and soil deterioration. Forest land has steadily declined
as farmers bring new land into cultivation. Most holdings have a few trees
(either wild or cultivated), growing scattered on poor, unproductive
patches or steep slopes. On the average, not more than 5-10 ares per farm
(5-10% of farm size) are under trees. Food crops are the mainstay of the
subsistance economy and also represent the single most important source of
money income for farmers (mainly through the sale of banana beer). Food
crops cover about 92% of cultivated land and cash crops about 8%.
Traditional food crops include beans, peas, cassava, potatoes and sweet
potatoes, maize, sorghum, groundnuts and bananas. Roughly 85% to 90% of
the production of these foodstuffs is for farm consumption. Information
about production, yields, areas planted, cultivation techniques and
producer prices (for the 10% to 15% that is marketed) is poor but important
efforts are underway to improve the statistical coverage. Non-traditional
food crops include rice, wheat, palm oil and sugar, most of which have been
introduced relatively recently.
1.07      Agriculture is the most important source of Burundi's foreign
exchange earnings. Its share of foreign exchange revenues has averaged
95% over the past decade, with coffee contributing an average 90%, and
cotton, tea and hides accounting for most of the remainder. Due to
climatic conditions coffee's production fluctuates considerably from year
to year. Most coffee produced is exported. Burundi's coffee export quota,
determined by the International Coffee Agreement for 1982/83 and 1983/84,
was 25,800 tons. Production has fluctuated between a low of 17,000 tons in
1978 and a high of 45,000 tons in 1982. Cotton production averages 6,000



- 4 -
tons/year. Cotton exports have fluctuated between a high of 3,630 tons in
1978 and a low of 800 tons in 1981. Tea production is shared between
industrial plantations (1,750 has and smallholders (3,250 ha). The value
of tea exports is roughly the same as cotton. Agriculture accounted for
about 10-12% of total import expenditures over the last decade, most of it
for food items, and only a small part for agricultural inputs.
1.08      Sector performance.  The last three Five-year Development Plans
(1968-72, 1973-77 and 1978-82) have emphasized increased food crop
production and cash crop development to provide foreign exchange resources
and additional revenues to the Government. The 1978-82 plan proposed a new
strategy aimed at increasing incomes and improving living conditions in the
rural areas through a set of measures including food crop and livestock
development, erosion control and cash crop diversification. A stronger
cooperative movement and the creation of Regional Development Companies
(SDR) to implement integrated rural development projects were to constitute
the major vehicles for achieving the plan's targets. Actual performance,
in agriculture as in other sectors, has fallen short of the plans'
ambitious objectives although there has been important progress in some
areas. Although statistics are scanty, it appears that food production is
barely keeping up with population growth.
1.09      Issues.  Burundi's recent agricultural development experience
indicates that some important issues must be addressed if the broad
strategic objectives of increasing production and improving rural living
conditions are to be achieved. These issues can be grouped into three
major categories:  production, institutional and financial issues.  Major
efforts to upgrade productivity within traditional farm systems will be
essential if agricultural production is to be increased. Priority areas
for action are adaptive research and improving the production and
distribution of inputs. Agricultural research is a pre-requisite and
should focus on measures to control erosion and to improve soil fertility.
The responsibilities of agricultural institutions, notably Regional
Development Companies (SRDs) and parastatals need to be clarified, their
objectives defined and their financial impact on the national budget
reviewed. Agricultural service and investment management, including SRD
and parastatal management, need to be strengthened. Insufficient numbers
of trained, experienced Burundi staff is a key problem, but more explicit
attention is needed in planning and implementing services and above all
investment projects, to institution building, and measures to ensure that
efforts are sustained over time. A host of complex issues turn around
financial resources available for agriculture and their management.
Agriculture's share in budget resources is low and has declined. Over the
past five years the Government has allocated only 10-25% of its investment
budget and about 5% of the recurrent budget to agriculture. These
allocations are insufficient to support a dynamic investment program and
basic farmer services. External financing is not reflected in budget



figures, but even so agriculture's share of estimated total investment
declined from 30% in the early 1970s to 15% today. Credit available for
agriculture is confined essentially to coffee marketing and processing
operations. In short investment is far below what it should be and a key
priority is to expand Burundi's ability to plan and manage investments and
services for agriculture. An important related issue is cost recovery from
agriculture. The Government is committed to encouraging recovery of costs
for beneficiaries, to help render services and institutions
self-supporting, but a coherent policy and mechanisms to implement this
policy have yet to be worked out.
C. The Forestry Sub-sector Issues and Strategy
1.10      Forestry development was long neglected in Burundi's development
efforts.  The most dramatic symbol of the low priority to forestry is the
fact that to date there is no qualified national forester in the Forestry
Department. Since the late 1970s, however, there has been a sharp focus on
forestry issues prompted largely by unmistakable evidence that forest
resources were being cut down much faster than they were replaced, with a
real threat that most forests could disappear within a decade, with
potentially devastating ecological consequences. There has also been a
growing appreciation of the links between dwindling forest resources and
the decline in soil fertility and soil erosion problems, one of the most
critical issues for Burundi's agriculture: as trees become scarcer,
farmers have increased use of agricultural residues for fuel instead of
using them on crops. Denuded slopes in Burundi's hilly landscape are prone
to erosion. The new focus on forestry has led to an impressive investment
program, which has been relatively successful in stepping up the rate of
plantations established, protecting natural forests and launching a new
nursery program to supply seedlings to farmers for individual wood lots.
The time has come now, however, to define more clearly Burundi's forest
development strategy and to develop the institutional framework which will
ensure its implementation. An essential element of this strategy must be
an integrated approach to Burundi's forestry sector, including measures to
address the critical problem of the place of forestry in Burundi's 700,000
small farms, supply of fuelwood to the growing urban population, supply of
timber resources and protection of the environment. An important policy
paper, which sets out a strategic framework and specific action measures,
has been recently approved by the Government (para 2.14).
1.11      Burundi's forest resources are estimated at about 200,000 ha, or
nearly 7% of the total land area. This is a rough estimate because forest
resources (like other land use patterns) are not systematically assessed
and changes are not monitored. Some important efforts to improve data on
forest resources are, however, underway and deserve a high priority in
future action programs (paras 2.16 and 2.18). About 140,000 ha of forests
are man-made plantations, while 60,000 ha are protected forests, including
the remnants of dense tropical mountain forest along the Zaire/Nile crest



- 6 -
divide in the northwest (about 40,000 ha), small areas of savanna woodland
(15,000 to 20,000 ha) in the south, and forest galleries along water
courses and in steep gorges. Forest plantations are owned by the
Government, communes, religious communities and individuals. Productivity
of plantations varies widely, but annual increments are generally fairly
low and overall wood production is far below demand so that total forest
resources are declining.
1.12      Information on wood consumption and demand is fragmentary and
unreliable, although better data on wood and charcoal sold in the main
towns have become available in recent years. Burundi relies on a variety
of energy sources, including hydroelectric and thermal power, but wood
products remain a vital source of energy, both in rural and urban areas.
Both for energy needs and o.her uses of wood, demand, measured both in
terms of theoretical requirements and the evidence of markets, far
outstrips current supply. Notably, the need for firewood is estimated at a
minimum of one million m3/year (assuming a per capita annual wood
consumption, low by international standards, of 0.25 m3/year), while
current supply and hence consumption is far less (perhaps one half).
Projections for future demand show a steadily rising trend; by the end of
the century demand is likely to double. Estimated demand for timber is
130,000 m3 (including 2,000 m3 of legal imports), compared to an annual
production of 10,000 m3. Per capita consumption of fuelwood and charcoal
in towns, especially Bujumbuta, is higher than in rural areas due to the
unavailability of alternative fuels such as agricultural residues and
higher cash incomes (para 2.09). The rural population is increasingly
using agricultural residues to meet their fuel needs and in some areas
agricultural wastes are the primary fuel. This contributes directly to
declining fertility and crop yields, which in turn increase pressure on the
land and leads to shortened fallow periods, soil degradation and falling
crop production.
1.13      The wood shortage is clearly reflected in rapid increases in
charcoal prices: from BuF 150/bag in 1970 to about BuF 750 in 1984
(BuF 20,000/ton). This price increase (500X) is much higher than the
consumer price index increase (250%) for that period. Production cost in
1984 was estimated at BuF 300/bag, including 33% for salaries, 59% for wood
purchase and 8% for bags. Inefficient charcoal making is a serious problem
as much wood is wasted in its production. This has particular importance
because of the growing Bujumbura market for charcoal (Bujumbura, with 5.5%
of the population, accounts for 15% of total fuelwood consumption).
Charcoal is produced and marketed by small-scale entrepreneurs.
Traditional methods are used in its production (yields are around 10%);
there are few incentives for economies as charcoal-making fees are based on
the number of bags produced and not on area of wood cut or wood volume.
Better charcoal production methods have been introduced and tested through
the First Forestry Project (para 2.07), but there is an urgent need to
promote their application.



1.14      Since 1978 the Government has initiated several large
afforestation projects to replenish its dwindling forest resources. During
the period from 1978 to 1984 a total of 19,000 ha of new plantations were
established with external financing. This represents about 45% of the
total area planted between the same dates. While these projects have been
well implemented, their impact has been blunted both by the absence of a
well articulated, long-term development strategy and by the weakness of
institutions in the forestry sector.
1.15      Sub-sector issues and strategy.  Continued support for
development in the forestry sub-sector is an important element of the
Government's development strategy; however, its financial contribution to
the subsector is low and a substantial increase from present levels is
needed to turn strategic objectives to reality (para 2.05). Objectives are
clear: new afforestation projects should contribute to soil erosion
control and they should not use land suitable for agriculture; emphasis
should shift from large-scale plantations to farm forestry to the extent
that farmers interest and technical packages emerge; agro-forestry should
be developed to promote farm forestry activities; and state plantations and
natural forests should be protected and weil managed. These are priority
objectives of the Government Fourch Development Plan (1983-87) (para. 2.14)
and it is also at the center of recent policy papers and of the recently
approved forestry policy paper (paras 2.15 to 2.18). To achieve these
objectives a long-term investment and institution-building program is
required. The long-term planting program should include commercial
plantations, protection plantations and rural nurseries/agroforestry
programs to meet expected demands for different types of woods.
Institutional development efforts must focus above all on training of high
level technicians at the Forestry Department. Clearer mechanisms for
management of existing and future plantations, creation of planning and
monitoring mechanisms, and well defined systems for pricing of wood
products are also needed. Additional priority areas for action include
establishing a comprehensive research program on forestry and agroforestry,
improving charcoal production methods, and improving links between forestry
programs and other agricultural or livestock programs in high population
density areas.
1.16      Previous Bank involvement in the sub-sector.  The first IDA
Forestry Project (Credit 91S-BU) represented the first stage of a long-term
program to develop basic forestry services and plantations supplying
fuelwood, building poles, and timber. It was appraised in July 1978,
approved by the Executive Directors in May 1979, and the US$4.3 million
credit became effective in October 1979. Total costs were estimated at
US$8.8 million. EEC financed a US$1.3 million special action credit and
FAC the technical assistance. The World Food Program (WFP) also provided
food rations to plantation workers in the Project's remote afforestation
areas. The project objectives were: to establish rural nurseries in 30
communes, and 2,000 ha of eucalyptus and 5,000 ha of pine plantations; to
finance technical assistance for project management and training for local
staff; to study energy needs and conduct applied trials, and in particular



to improve charcoal production. Benefits expected from the project were:
increased supplies of fuelwood, building poles and charcoal to the local
population. The project was due to be completed in September 1984, but
completion has been delayed to June 1985, which will allow a full five
planting seasons and help to ensure a smooth transition to the second
project.
1.17      Project implementation has generally been successful.  It is
ahead of schedule in several of its physical objectives and most objectives
should be reached by the end of the investment period. By June 1985,
approximately 6,150 ha will have been planted, including 2,050 ha of
eucalyptus and 4,100 ha of pine. About 60 new nurseries have been
established, one per commune and are operating, presently selling
25,000year of seedlings to farmers. Problems encountered by the First
Forestry Project (para 2.07) have included limited land availability at
some of the plantation sites (Mageyo), resentment by the local population
and temporary labor shortage in others (Vyanda), lack of candidates for
training (at the university level) and inadequate and unreliable Government
funding (replenishment of revolving fund). The chronic shortages of
Government funds were overcome by the estab'.ishment of a revolving fund
financed by credit funds.
1.18      Sector and sub-sector lending strategy.  The key challenges for
agricultural development in the decade ahead are to tackle the issues of
changing farming systems in the face of mounting population pressures, and
to develop Burundi's capacity to plan and manage services and investments.
A dynamic research program geared to small farmer needs and closely linked
to farmer services, notably extension and input supply, is a top priority.
Agroforestry, the integration of trees in farming systems, has been
neglected but will play a key role. Institution-building also poses vital
problems; well-focused training programs are essential and care must be
taken to ensure that programs and services are tailored to available
financial and managerial resources. Burundi's high (ard increasing)
population density poses special issues which must feature in agricultural
strategies. This dilemna of rising population pressure on land must guide
research and extension programs. Host urgently it dictates a dynamic
action program to address the related problems of dwindling forest
resources and soil erosion and exhaustion of soil fertility. An integrated
approach, starting at farm level with soil conservation, better use of
inputs and judicious use of trees on the farm, but also including
production plantations wherever land is available and good management of
plantations and systematic protection of natural fcrests, is needed. The
proposed project is designed to support such an intrgrated approach to the
forestry sub-sector and thus has an imp4.ctant and central role in the
Bank's operational strategy for Burundi.



CHAPTER II
GOVERNMENT SUPPORT AND POLICY FOR THE FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
A. Forestry Institutions
2.01      General and local administration.  The Forestry Department ("Eaux
et Forfts") is one of four departments of the Directorate General of
Agriculture, in the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The
Department's director is also responsible for fisheries and wildlife, and
parks. The department consists of two sub-directorates: forests and
fisheries. The responsibilities of the sub-directorate of forests include:
implementation of the Government's forest policies, management of reserved
natural forests, management of man-made plantations, control of
exploitation of communal plantations, and management of Government-control
sawmilling. Forest reserves became the responsibility of the National
Institute for Nature Conservation (INCN) which falls directly under the
Presidency, by the decree of May 3, 1980. The Department nonetheless
maintains a general mandate for coordinating all forestry activities,
including natural forests. The Forestry Department staff includes about 100
civil servants (52 technicians and 13 assistant technicians) representing
20% of the personnel of the Ministry of Agriculture - excluding contractual
employees. The department's current organization is not adapted to the
major challenges it faces in implementiAg forestry policies and programs,
notably, responsibilities of various units are not clearly defined, and the
field level organization is limited and weak. The forest policy paper
addresses this issue, and calls for a reorganization of the department,
both at the central and field level. The proposed project would support
this reorganization and institution-building effort (para 4.01).
2.02      The number one problem for the Forestry Department is lack of
qualified staff. Burundi has no trained high-level Burundi forester and
there is a marked shortage of lower level staff; there are, however,
adequate numbers of trained mid-level staff. The Department has no
deputy-director and some services are currently run by technical advisers.
The high level staff are all agricultural engineers with no forestry
qualifications. Thirteen provinces out of 15 have one or two forest
agronomes-, the remaining two provinces sharing the services of five
assistants. Forest "agronomes- all come from the Burundi Technical
Institute of Agronomy (ITAB). Assistant foresters come from the Kigamba
School, while guards and monitors are trained on the job. Another
important problem facing the Department is a severely limited means of
transport. Most equipment is old, inadequate and poorly maintained because
of lack of funds. Field staff have barely any means of transport.
2.03      Efforts to strengthen forestry extension are badly needed.  At
present the forestry extension service is small and narrowly focused,
although national tree planting campaigns and individual actions are having



- 10 -
a valuable impact. Cooperation between the forestry and agricultural
extension services is limited. The Forestry Department has tried to
promote tree planting, but lacks a well-defined plan and has no means of
monitoring progress. Serious understaffing has been one of the main
problems, and many communes are without an assistant forester. Training
and supervision of extension workers are generally inadequate and little
effort has been made so far to teach the rural population to plant and
manage woodlots, or how to save cooking fuel. Additional financing will be
required to have a significant impact through training programs, e.g., by
making greater use of audio-visual and othez methods.
2.04      Forestry research has been almost non-existent until recently;
however, work on several forest research topics, including agroforestry,
is expected to start soon. Forestry research is the responsibility of the
National Agricultural Research Institute (ISABU), which depends directly on
the Ministry of Agriculture, but it is only a minor activity at the
Institute. The orientation of work exclusively toward cash crops (coffee,
tea and cotton) is being modified to include more research on food crops
and forestry. Trials undertaken over the past 20 years are currently at a
standstill for lack of personnel. The only ongoing forestry Zaire-Nile
Divide Mission (MFCZN). This project was initiated in 1976 and is financed
by French bilateral aid (FAC). FAC is also planning to start an
agroforestry research program shortly, as well as the funding of a research
specialist and equipment. A large number of trials have been carried out
in different ecological zones, covering many important topics. Among the
problems requiring specific attention are live firebreaks, leguminous
crops, the effects of fertilization on cultivation, the preparation of
volume tables and the study of production costs. The FAC project will
tackle these problems and, in the short and medium term this represents an
effective approach to addressing priority forestry research issues.
2.05      The forestry sub-sector has been relatively privileged in terms
of investment levels in recent years, and a number of large investment
projects have been launched. The key problems are poor coordination among
project efforts, the absence of a coherent, carefully vetted investment
program for the sub-sector, and chronic difficulties in providing
Government counterpart funds for these investments. An additional, related
problem is the very low level of resources going to support recurrent costs
of the forestry services, which seriously impede efforts to strengthen
management of forestry policies and programs and has implications for the
sustainability of programs launched. We conclude that Government budget
allocations to the sub-sector have been insufficient to meet the challenge
of developing forestry resources and operating on-going programs and
services well, and substantially more resources are needed if forestry
objectives are to be realized. The share of forestry in recurrent budget
expenditures has varied little over the past decade (the share of
agriculture has ranged between 3-5% during the same period). The recurrent



- 11 -
budget is almost entirely absorbed by salaries and wages. Of the BuF 18
million (US $150,000) allocated in 1983, BuF 10 million and BuF 8 million
were earmarked for contract staff and regular staff, respectively. The
share of forestry in investment budget expenditures is also small,
representing less than 10% of the total investment budget for agriculture
(BuF 54 million; US$450,000 in 1983). These figures, however, have limited
significance because almost all investments are carried out under donor
financed projects (which do not figure in the budget) to which the
Government adds a small contribution.
B. Forestry Projects
2.06      Current forestry projects.  During the Third Five-Year Plan
period (1978-82), major afforestation projects established approximately
12,600 ha of new plantations: between 1978 and 1984 the total stood at
18,800 ha.
Area Planted 1978-84 (ha)
Timber Fuelwood Protection Total
- Externally-financed Projects        8,500      2,000    8,300    18,800
- Government-financed Plantations    4,400       5,600      -      10,000
- Communal Plantations                  100    11,800       -      11,400
13,000    19,400    8,300    40,700
A number of other forestry projects are currently underway in Burundi,
including the IDA-financed project (para 1.16).  Belgium and Saudi Arabia
are co-financing an afforestation project over 12,000 ha in
Mugamba-Bututsi, in south-central Burundi. The European Development Fund
(EDF) will finance the afforestation of 3,200 ha at Mumirva and 6,000 ha
near Gihofi. FAC is financing the planting of a 500 ha protection belt
around the Zaire-Nile divide in northern Burundi. Two IDA rural
development projects (paras 1.03 and 1.04) have forestry components. An
FAO-UNDP project (which was jointly carried out with the First IDA-financed
Forestry project) has already trained approximately 35 forestry
technicians. Most of these projects have a regional rather than a sectoral
focus and they generally concentrate on tree-planting rather than on
extension work, conservation programs or training. The communes have been
engaged in afforestation programs undertaken in the context of communal
works, with mixed results. National, essentially public relations
campaigns have been initiated, such as the proclamation of 1979 as
"l'Annee de l'Arbre' (tree planting year), in an attempt to reduce forest
destruction and to promote individual tree planting. An important element
of this national effort has been establishment of Government nurseries to
produce seedlings for sale to the population. Public response has been
favorable and the demand for seedlings has grown regularly as the number of
nurseries has increased.



- 12 -
2.07      The First Forestry Project (para 1.16), is described in Chapter
I. Some specific issues, however, merit further discussion since they have
implications for design of the second Project. Training of technicians was
an important component; these activities were successful but need to be
expanded at the national level. 1While training efforts at first focused on
mid-level technicians, emphasis now needs to be put on training higher
level technicians. Another important issue is project management
arrangements. Project management was handled expertly and efficiently, but
it is noteworthy that it was handled mainly by expatriates. FAC financed a
technical assistance team from the Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
(CTFT). In addition to their main plantation activities these expatriates
have provided valuable on-the-job training to national project staff.
However, because of the shortage of Burundese agronomists, transfer of
responsibilities to the local foresters at the Project management level was
slower than planned and concerted efforts to ensure that management
responsibility is assumed by Burundi nationals are needed in the next few
years.  Better charcoal production methods have been introduced under the
First Forestry Project and traditional fuel-conserving stoves are being
experimented with. Traditional charcoal yields are around 10%: efficient
methods can double this figure. The challenge is now to pursue
experimental demonstrations to find ways to transfer new technologies to
charcoal-makers.  Generally the rural nurseries have been a success but for
logistic reasons their number had to be doubled while the average annual
production per nursery was halved. This led to a higher average production
cost of seedlings than expected. Obviously steps should be taken to ensure
this is not repeated as the program is expanded to cover Burundi's 90
communes. The changes introduced were intended to mitigate local hostility
to the planting of large tracts of trees on the extensive grazing lands,
particularly in the southern part of the country, at Vyanda. This laudable
objective can in future be better met by careful siting of nurseries.
C. The Quest for Wood
2.08      It is clear that wood fuel will remain the main source of energy
for household purposes for some time to come; this is because of the high
cost of imported fuel and the low purchasing power of the population.
Therefore it is vital that efforts focus on increasing wood supplies and
the efficiency of their use rather than on substitution for wood products.
Consumption of timber is relatively limited in comparison to fuelwood, as
are official wood imports. The need for timber is nonetheless important
and need to be addressed.
2.09      The rural population uses firewood and agricultural residues to
cook food and for their other energy needs. Agricultural residues cover an
estimated 15% of energy needs. The fuelwood scarcity has an impact on food
crop production as the rural population increasingly uses agricultural
residues to meet fuel needs. This reduces soil fertility and crop yields,



- 13 -
which in turn leads to shortened fallow periods, soil degradation and
falling production. Deforestation resulting from the energy needs of the
population, without alternative energy sources, is accelerating the process
of soil erosion and there is good reason to fear that consequences of this
deforestation are worsening. Marketed firewood supplies the principal
towns and rural institutions such as missions a-d hospitals, and rural
industries such as tea factories. A recent survey showed that 87% of
households in Bujumbura use purchased charcoal as their main cooking fuel,
the remainder using mostly purchased wood. According to the same survey,
the amount spent per month per person on charcoal for :ooking was about BuF
250 (US$2). This is equivalent to 10-15% of the amount spent on food. The
main potential substitutes for charcoal and firewood are electricity,
imported kerosene and domestic peat. In terms of useful energy for
cooking, electricity costs roughly the same as charcoal, and higher income
urban families are using it; however, the cost of electric appliances is
too high for most of the population and the prospects for their reduction
through bulk procurement and/or local manufacturing for a regional market
are not very promising at least for the near future. Even without taking
the cost of kerosene stoves into account, the cost of imported petroleum
products (US$85/barrel c.i.f. Bujumbura) prohibits the use of kerosene for
cooking. Efforts have been made to promote domestic peat as a cooking
fuel, but consumer acceptance has been poor. This is due to: (i) the fact
that people are accustomed to cooking with charcoal; (ii) difficulties in
peat combustion; (iii) the high ash content of the local peat; and (iv) the
price of peat not being competitive with that of charcoal. Household use
of peat may become possible in the future once the peat industry has
developed further. The conclusion is inescapable that Burundi will remain
dependent on wood for the foreseeable future.
2.10      Consumption of timber is small by comparison to fuelwood (130,000
3 in 1983). Bujumbura accounts for about 45% of timber consumption. Most
of the wood comes from the Zaire/Nile Crest divide (103,000 m3) while the
rest comes from State and communal plantations (25,000 m3). Wood is also
widely used as a fuel in industrial or small-scale operations (e.g. tea
processing, brick making, bakeries, lime kilns and fish drying).
2.11      Official wood imports are limited:  there may be some unofficial
imports but in very small quantities. An equivalent of US$300,000 in wood
products are imported annually; this represents about 0.2% of the value of
all imports in 1982, and 2,000 m3 of sawn timber. These imports cover
about 1.5% of the present demand. There is some potential for imports of
construction timber or wood products from Tanzania and Zaire. This might
assist Burundi in meeting critical short-term wood and fuel requirements,
but the costs of imported wood products would be high and it seems unlikely
that long-term requirements could be met through imports. Considerable
quantities of metal are imported and substitute for wood in the modern
construction sector. Petroleum products represented about 15X of the value
of imports in 1982; the percentage for metal products is unknown. Burundi
exports virtually no wood or wood products.



- 14 -
2.12      Marketing and pricing.  Most charcoal is produced and marketed by
small scale entrepreneurs. Wood is cut and charcoal produced in situ.
Production techniques employed are exclusively traditional (burning in
earthen pits), and they are inefficient. The general scarcity of wood has
resulted in periodic shortages of charcoal, with sharply increasing
prices. The Government, concerned by illegal forest cutting and the
reduction in forest area, has restricted charcoal production in many
areas. Thus, charcoal is coming from increasingly afar, with consequent
increases in prices (para 1.13). Wood for firewood and poles is normally
marketed by small entrepreneurs who employ woodcutters. If trees are ou
government or communal land a cutting permit and payment of a communal tax
are normally required. Timber logs are normally pit sawn by skilled
sawyers and the market price is relatively high (BuF 18,000/m3 of sawn
wood at Bujumbura in 1983). Burundi's only 'modern' processing equipment
is an old portable band-sawmill at Bugarama. This mill breaks down
frequently due to inadequate supervision, poor operation and lack of spare
parts. Its annual production is a small fraction of its rated capacity of
500 m3 per annum. It processes mostly cypress thinnings from trees 15 to
20 years old.
2.13      At present the pricing of wood and wood products in Burundi is
not well organized.  The Government has not yet defined a coherent policy
on pricing of forest products, but is taking steps to articulate and
implement one (para. 2.16).  The problem is complex.  For trees on  private
land", including all trees planted by farmers, no tax or payment is
involved, and by tradition farmers gather and cut wood wherever it-is
available. In principle utilization of areas of natural forest, all
Government plantations, and commanal plantations is strictly regulated. and
either a permit fee or a communal tax is payable. In practice it is
difficult, if not impossible, for the Government to control cutting of
trees and collect fees except on large plantation blocks. Cutting permits
range from BuF 1,800 to BuF 2,500 per lot of 10 to 15 trees. This is well
below the cost of replacing trees and the level of permit fees is clearly
too low. The Government, however, hesitates to increase rates in the fear
that it would increase illegal cutting and marketing of forest products.
The staff of the forestry department is limited and plantations are widely
scattered, with many in such poor condition that they scarcely warrant
control efforts. Illegal cutting is for all these reasons widespread. The
situation is complicated by confusion of records, so that ownership of many
small plantations and tree stands is uncertain. Further, there are many
unknowns about what is actually happening, as no effective monitoring
system exists. It is very clear that forest resources are dwindling and
there is mounting demand for wood products, but it is difficult to quantify
exactly how much is being cut or to project trends with any real accuracy.
This complex of issues is being addressed in the Forestry Policy Paper, and
the Government is committed in principle to rationalizing the present
situation and developing a more effective cost recovery system for forest
production (Chapter VI).



- 15 -
D. Government Strategy and Policy for the Sub-sector
2.14      Strategy.  The Government has launched large afforestation
programs since 1978 (para 1.14) to arrest the pace of deforestation, and
minimize its consequences. Objectives are broad and cover not only forest
resources per se but also related issues of soil fertility and soil erosion
control. These programs are expected to continue under the 1983-87 Fourth
Plan period. The objectives for the Government's forest policy, as stated
in the Plan, are as follows:
(i) The protection and management of existing natural
forests: protection against encroachment, brush fires
and grazing animals will be assisted by the creation of a
buffer zones.
(ii)   In new projects priority will be given to afforestation
by the state of hilltops and hillsides unsuitable for
agriculture and of low pasture value, mainly for soil and
water conservation.
Ciii)   Communal plantations will be of sufficiently
large size to ensure the best use of available staff.
(iv)   Individual and collective plantations will be
supported by rural nurseries, supplies of seedlinxgs and
good extension staff.
(v)   Agro-forestry in high density population areas will be
improved.
(vi)   The introduction of anti-erosion hedges_on pastures will
be complemented by the introduction of soil-improving and
fodder trees.
(vii)   Wood uses.  A study will establish wood needs, local,
regional and national market projections for firewood,
poles and timber, and the organization of the wood
industry.
Planned allocations to the forestry sub-sector are BuF 2.4 billion, or 2%
of the total and 10% of the share of agriculture. This would represent, in
annual terms, six times the 1983 Government allocation to the sub-sector.
These financial objectives are somewhat over-ambitious, as are the overall
afforestation objectives (para 2.15); even a partial achievement of
objectives will depend on the willingness of external agencies to finance
the lion's share of the program.



- 16 -
2.15     The Burundi Government has stated as its long-term objective that
it will seek to extend the forest cover to 500,000 ha, or 20% of the total
area of Burundi. Afforestation is considered the best way of protecting
the land in an agro-silvo-pastoral context. New forestry projects are
planned in areas of low demographic pressure and on land with no clear
potential for agriculture or livestock. Large scale plantations, which
will cover some 30,000 ha by 1987, are thus to be geared to the dual
objectives of protection and production. Pine plantations will produce
timber and firewood, callitris will be useful for protection and will
produce fuelwood, with some timber; and eucalyptus will produce mainly
firewood and timber. To reduce the risks of large-scale monoculture,
silvicultural research will aim to broaden the range of useful species.
2.16      Policy.  With assistance from bilateral and multi-lateral
agencies (FAC and EDF in particular), the Government has ix'tiated
important efforts for the development of the forestry sub-sector based on
an integrated development of agriculture, livestock and forestry. Over the
past six years a series of policy documents have been prepared and reviewed
and action to implement them has begun. Within the past year a broader
policy document (summarized below in paras 2.17 and 2.18) has been drafted
for the purpose of defining clear, well articulated Government forestry
objectives and providing a rational framework for future projects,
including those financed by external donors. This document (which has now
been fully endorsed by the Government) is the first comprehensive document
on Burundi's forestry sub-sector.
2.17      The Forestry Policy Review provides a good overview of the
complex problems of forestry and proposes a strategic framework for
addressing them. It is broad ranging in scope, addressing both issues of
wood supply in all its forms (sawnwood, poles, fuelwood, charcoal) and
threats to the environment (erosion, disappearance of natural fauna and
flora). It underlines the importance of dynamic, active measures to
increase wood supplies and protect the environment, arguing that action
here is a key to Burundi's future economic independence. Proposals for
action cover the broad policy environment, where reliance on private
initiative is emphasized and the importance of cost recovery; they also
include institutional measures and reorganization proposals (reinforcement
of the Forestry Department and better linkages between forestry and crop
and livestock development), and finally a framework for investments in
forestry services, plantations, and wood processing and marketing. The
review underlines the key importance of measures to ensure adequate
incentives, given the critical importance of private farmers and
entrepreneurs throughout the chain of wood-related activities, from tree
growing to charcoal and timber marketing. Some key themes evoked in the
review, which represent an agenda for action in the next few years, include



- 17 -
(a) the need to improve knowledge of resources available and
comsumption levels;
(b) the need for more efficient management of existing resources;
(c) measures aimed at increasing productivity of plantations and
forests;
(d) more dynamic efforts to encourage farmers to grow trees,
including research and better extension services;
(e) development of private wood processing, including provision
for credit;
(f) development and promotion of more efficient wood processing,
especially for charcoal; and
(g) more effective conservation programs aimed at preserving
natural forests and plant and animal life.
Key elements in the strategy will include training of personnel,
development of effective and relevant research programs, and establishment
of mechanisms to apply laws and policies affecting forests. The Review
recognizes clearly that the challenge is to make the best use of existing
resources, as resource constraints will be a continuing reality.
2.18      The proposed Project is thus set against a backdrop of an
intensive review of policy issues for forestry, which sets out a clear and
comprehensive development strategy and an ambitious agenda for policy
analysis and action. It also follows the recent approval of a new forestry
law, which was based on needs identified through earlier policy reviews and
which sets out a better legal framework for sector management. The
challenge now is to translate policy and law into action. The Policy
Review has now been finalized and approved by the Government (including the
President). It has benefitted from important contributions by several
external agencies involved in the sector, including IDA. Further
discussions on implementation of the proposed measures and periodic review
of progress and assessment of the need for adjustments would be pursued in
the course of implementation of the Project. Specific areas and issues to
be addressed include the institutional arrangements for improvement of
sector management (e.g. reorganization of the Forestry Department),
training programs, application of cost recovery measures and definition and
implementation of regulatory measures related to the new forest law. In
addition, an annual review of the proposed investments in the forestry
sector would be conducted. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. The proposed Project has been designed explicitly to support
implementation of policy and institutional measures, and the institution
building and pilot agroforestry and research components, in particular, are
key to finding long-term new solutions to the forestry dilemma.



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would be the second phase of a long-term
program to develop basic forestry services and promote tree planting by
farmers, and to establish plantations supplying fuelwood, building poles
and timber. The Project would support the Government's strategy for
forestry development, notably in speeding the pace of reforestation on
individual farms and in larger scale plantations. It aims at laying the
groundwork for future development of agroforestry. The Project has
important institutional development objectives, notably in strengthening
the Forestry Department, particularly its capacity to manage investment
programs and staff training. It includes support for new research programs
in agroforestry and pilot schemes to promote an integrated sylvo-pastoral
approach, and training of charcoal makers. The Project would provide
support for the continuing efforts to establish long-term pricing and
marketing strategies and mechanisms to implement them. Thus the Project
proposes to address important issues which have come to light in the course
of implementation of the first project, particularly in the financial,
institutional (management and training) and policy areas (paras 1.16 and
2.07). The proposed Project would comprise, over a period of five years,
the following components:
(a) development of 90 Government-run rural nurseries (about one
per commune) including future development of 60 existing
nurseries and establishment of about 30 new nurseries, each
producing 40,000-50,000 seedlings (3-4 million altogether)
per year; development of forestry extension services and a
pilot agroforestry scheme; and establishment of 2,000 ha of
demonstration fuelwood, pole, fodder and fruit plots in
communes throughout the country (5 ha per year close to each
rural nursery);
(b) establishment by the Government of:
- 3,500 ha of eucalyptus fuelwood and pole plantations at
Gakara, Bukinanyana and Mabanda, mainly to supply charcoal
to Bujumbura; and
- 1,500 ha of pine timber commercial plantations at Vyanda
and Vugizo;
(c) the protection, maintenance and silvicultural treatment of
existing plantations established under the Phase I project
(about 2,000 ha of eucalyptus and 4,000 ha of pine);
(d) the initiation of a program to promote integrated
sylvo-pastoral activities, on a pilot basis, in a few
selected plantation areas with high density population;



- 19 -
(e) institutional strengthening of the Forestry Department
through the creation of a planning and monitoring unit, and
two new regional forest inspectorates, includS-.support for
additional staff, buildings, equipment and running cOsts,
and expatriate technical asslstance and strengthening of the
Project management unit; and
(f) an agroforestry training program, including overseas
scholarships for foresters at university level and local
training; and studies, trials and training consultancies in
agroforestry, charcoal-making, forest exploitation and wood
utilization.
3.02      The Forestry Department ("Eaux et For8ts"), which is under the
Director-General of Agriculture of the Ministry Agriculture and Livestock,
would have principal responsibility for Project implementation. Within the
department a Project Manager would report to the Director of Forestry, and
the Project unit (established under the first phase Project) would have
direct responsibility for all Project activities. The livestock and
agricultural component would be run by a special management unit reporting
to the Project Manager, but specific arrangements would be worked out to
ensure close coordination with relevant services at the Departments of
Agriculture and Livestock. Forest and agroforestry research would be
undertaken by the agricultural research agency, ISABU, on behalf of the
Forestry Department, in close cooperation with the Project unit.
B. The Project Areas
3.03      Project activities would be undertaken in most areas of Burundi,
with plantation establishment concentrated around Bujumbura and Vyanda on
the Zaire-Nile divide (see Map). The rural nursery program would be
expanded so that all of Burundi's 90 communes would have one nursery each;
thus this effort would be nationwide. In addition, 2000 ha of woodlots
would be established in communes distributed throughout the country. The
eucalyptus plantations would be established at Gakara (500 ha, continuation
of Phase I), in Bujumbura province, Bukinanyana (500 ha) in Cibitoke
province, and at Mabanda (2,500 ha), in Nakamba province. All these sites
are located in the western part of the country, within reasonable distance
of Bujumbura. Given Burundi's acute shortage of good arable land,
selection of plantation sites has been and will continue to be governed by
the principle that no land with good agricultural potential would be
afforested. Nonetheless, only land with reasonable soils would be planted
as the objective is to establish productive, not protective, plantations.
Even applying both these criteria, there is sufficient land for plantations
on the scale proposed. The pine plantations would be sited at Vyanda
(1,000 ha, continuation of Phase I), in Bururi province. Support
activities to livestock and agriculture would be concentrated initially at
Vyanda and Vugizo.



- 20 -
C. Detailed Features
3.04      Rural nurseries and agroforestry.  The rural nurseries program
has been successfully implemented under the First Forestry Project (para
1.17) and it would be consolidated and expanded. At present 60 nurseries
operate, one per commune. Most of these nurseries would be redeveloped to
improve their operational efficiency and expand output, and the program
would be expanded to cover Burundi's 90 communes. Thus, 30 new nurseries
would be established and operated. The objective of this program is to
provide seedlings that will be planted by farmers on their farmland and by
communes in small woodlots. It would provide a continuing source of trees
for fuel and o&her purposes, thus addressing the central problem of the
widening gap between wood supply and demand.  The strengthened forest
extension services (para 3.07) and agroforestry research and pilot programs
would be primarily directed to promote these efforts, based on the communal
nurseries, and special efforts would be made to ensure that their work
is carefully integrated. Project activities would increase seedling
production and distribution significantly; seedlings distributed to farmers
would represent some 6,750 ha of trees (13.5 million seedlings, 2000
seedlings/ha). Each of the 90 rural nurseries would produce at least
40,000-50,000 seedlings per year at full development. The nurseries
already established and new nurseries have extremely simple facilities
consisting of open nurseries shaded by grass roofs. They have no buildings
or vehicles operating for the nurseries per se, although the nurseries
serve as a base for extension services. The investment costs thus consist
almost exclusively of incremental operati% costs (supplies and labor).
3.05      Under the Project an organized agroforestry program would be
Initiated and promoted throughout the country; it would be carried out in
close association with the rural nurseries. Agroforestry, understood as
any multiple land-use system in which trees are combined with agricutural
crops and/or animals on the same area of land, either in mixture, or
sequence, is essentially a tool to achieve better land use, taking into
account land constraints and potential. Given Burundi's critical land
shortages which rule out large plantation programs and the close links
between forest denudation and soil erosion and decreasing fertility,
agroforestry has critical importance in Burundi and in many respects offers
the long-term solution to the forestry dilemma. It also opens the door for
substantial increases in farm productivity through integrated farming
systems which intercrop trees with a variety of crops (e.g. fodder trees,
shade, fruit production, etc.). However, there has been no systematic work
whatsoever in Burundi on agroforestry to date, so a large program cannot be
launched now without some prior research, experimental work and pilot
implementation programs. It would be an important Project objective to
carry out these activities, thus preparing the way for a larger
intervention later on. Five ha of demonstration plots would also be
established annually close to each nursery. This would support the



- 21 -
agroforestry program by promoting both commercial wood production by
individual farmers and farmers' groups, improving productivity of tree
production on farms and broadening forestry by introducing new tree species
and uses of wood products. The total area covered by these demonstration
plots would amount to 2,000 ha when the Project is completed. The species
used would depend on farmers' preferences, but it is expected that
eucalyptus (of good seed source) would represent at least three-quarters of
the seedlings, though every effort would be made to respond to farmers'
needs avd to supply at least 10% of fruit, shade, fodder and general
prupose trees. Farmers' preferences would be systematically assessed by
means of surveys.
3.06      Agroforestry research. Although farmers already practise some
traditional forms of agroforestry in Burundi (para 2.06), a well-prepared
and proven agroforestry technical package suitable for Burundi's
circumstances needs to be developed. A pilot research component on
agroforestry would be initiated in liaison with ISABU. The research
program would be carefully monitored and cautiously implemented to take
into account experience gained. It would rely heavily on the
infrastructure and extension services provided from rural nurseries. Major
activities would include carrying out surveys to determine farmers' needs
and preferences, training extension workers, sonitorinq progress and
implementation of research and trials. Regular assistAnce of individual
consultants and/or institutions with recognized expertise in agroforestry
would be provided, under conditions and terms of reference acceptable to
the Association. Assurances to this effect were obtained during -
negotiations.
3.07      Forestry extension services would be improved by training local
forest technicians, nurseryien and nursery -moniteurs-.  These forestry
workers would be integrated into the forestry service (they are now
employed on a temporary ad hoc basis). Since coumunal plantations have
generally been poorly managed and many communes have no funds to pay for
seedlings, these extension workers would not be formally associated with
commune administration and instead the objective would be to develop a
small national forest extension service. Its objective would be to promote
private tree plantings and to ensure an effective link between research and
farmer activities. Ultimately however, further improvements would come
from a better definition of the cooperation to be achieved between forestry
and agricultural extension. A project currently under preparation for IDA
financing proposes to strengthen the overall extension service in Burundi.
In this context, the links between forestry and agricultural extension are
expected to be further developped. In particular, the role of the Forest
Department technicians would be defined more precisely _n relation to that
of the agricultural extension staff.



- 22 -
3.08      Eucalyptus fuelvood and pole commercial plantations.  The
planting program would contribute to decreasing the substantial firewood
supply gap mainly for the urban markets (para 2.09). It would expand the
plantation program started under the first project, initially by completing
plantations at Gakara (an additional 500 ha). Work would begin on
infrastructure at Bukinanyana and Mabanda in Year 1, and planting would
start at Bukinanyana (300 ha) and continue at Mabanda (500 ha) in Year 3.
The program would be completed with planting at Mabanda at the rate of 800
ha per year in Years 4 and 5. The species would be mainly E. grandis at
Gakara and Bukinanyana, but at Mabanda E. camaldulensis and E. tereticornis
might be more appropriate. The average cutting cycle will be eight years.
Forestry workers have benefitted from food rations financed by the World
Food Program (WFP) during Phase I; this contribution represented about
US$200,000/year as it was necessary to attract a labor force in the
southern part of the country. WFP will continue its assistance for the
Phase II Project afforestation in remote areas (para 1.16).
3.09      Pine timber plantations.  The pine planting program would
contribute to supplying the industrial wood users' market (para 2.10) and
it would be completed in three years, at the rate of 500 ha a yer in Vyanda
and Vugizo (just south of Vyanda). By the end of the Project period
planted areas would be sufficient to co-er Burundi's projected demand for
these types of wood. The plantation program would involve a direct
continuation of the Phase I program at Vyanda. Blocks of at least 25 ha,
but usually 50-100 ha, would be planted. The species would be mostly Pinus
patula, with possibly some of the other upland tropical pines (e.g. P.
elliottii and P. kesiya).  Some commercial exploitation of plantations
should begin with thinnings towards the end of the Project implementation
period. Pruning would be carried out at year 6-7, thinning at years 9-10,
12-13 and 15-16, and clearfelling will take place at year 26.
3.10      Existing (Phase I) plantations.  The Project would support
maintenance operations on plantations established under the Phase I
Project. These plantations cannot be self-supporting in financial terms
until well after the Project investment period, since no commercial
exploitation will begin for several years. Since these plantations are
designed to be managed on a commercial basis, specific attention would be
paid to issues of stumpage rates, and arrangements for commercial
exploitation of plantations would be reviewed towards the end of the
Project period (para 6.06). Apart from fire protection and the maintenance
of roads, tracks and buildings, the silviculturai operations would be
carried out in the existing eucalyptus plantat'ons at Mageyo, Ryarusera
(Bugarama) and Gakara and pine plantations at Vyanda. The total cost per
hectare would be BuF 18,000 (US$150) during the Project period (US$30
annually), excluding overheads. Recurrent costs thereafter are estimated
at BuF 5,000 (US$42) per hectare.
3.11      Agro-sylvo pastoral pilot activities.  During the implementation
of the Phase I Project some opposition was encountered over use of land for
plantations from the population living at the major planting sites,



- 23 -
particularly at Vyanda in Bururi Province (para 1.17). This reflects
Burundi's land scarcity and the fact that the land in question was used for
rough grazing. To address this problem and with limited additional staff
(para 4.05), the Project would include a small pilot program designed to
support crop and livestock activities of farmers in plantation zones, both
to alleviate tensions and to ensure balanced, integrated development of
agricultural production in those areas. A program along these lines has
already been initiated at Vyanda. These activities would complement the
agroforestry research program in exploring ways to promote an integrated
approach to tree planting and crop and livestock activities. The program
would help to mitigate the loss of land to forestry and help the population
to maintain, or even improve, the grazing, animal production and crop
production potentials of the zones concerned. Grazing would be improved
mainly by paddocking, wind belts and contour planting of fodder crops.
Animal health would be improved by dipping, vaccination, the provision of
medicines and stall-feeding (especially for calves). Crop production
measures would include improved cultivation methods, seeds, anti-erosion
and soil-improvement measures, and manuring. The Project would begin with
expanded efforts at Vyanda, later extending to proposed plantation sites at
Vugizo and Mabanda, as well as at Gakara (for crops). Specific action
programs for livestock and crops. Livestock support activities would begin
with farmer surveys, and reinforcement of basic veterinary services. A key
objective would be selection of dynamic farmers to whom experimental
stalling and forage improvement techniques would be taught. Similar pilot
actions would be subsequently implemented at Vugizo in PY4. Pilot sheep
grazing activities would also be organized on established plantations at
Vyanda and at Mageyo. The crop specialists, working in close cooperation
with the livestock specialists at Vyanda, would try out and implement soil
protection and improved manure production methods, as well as the
production of improved crop seeds, and train local extensio,n agents. A
special unit would be set up to organize these activities on a pilot basis,
using the services of existing national staff in the fields of livestock
and agriculture and groups of 500 interested participants, with limited
consultant support to resolve operational problems. The basis of the
scheme would be self-help, with Government assistance in staffing and
inputs.
3.12      Training.  During the Phase I Project, forestry training (which
was financed by UNDP, para 2.06) concentrated on staff at technical
levels. These needs are now reasonably well provided for. Under the
proposed Project, therefore, training programs would concentrate on the
levels identified as most deficient (para 2.02), i.e. the professional
(forest engineer) level and the level of 'moniteurs' and extension workers,
particularly in agroforestry. Other areas for training could include
charcoal-burning, forest exploitation and wood use. Forestry scholarships
and consultancies in agroforestry, livestock and agriculture would be
provided. Forest agronomists would be sent abroad for an intensive
graduate forestry course to prepare them to take over from expatriate
silviculturists. It is expected that local training in extension work,
charcoal-burning and other activities will be financed under a UNDP/ILO
project which is under preparation.



- 24 -
3.13      Project and sub-sector management support.  The Project would
support a series of measures to reorganize and strengthen the Forestry
Department. The establishment of two new units would be suported: the
first, Planning and Monitoring, would have overall responsibility for
forestry sector planning, investment, and management of forestry resources,
coordination of external assistance and implementation of policy measures.
The Unit would monitor and in some instances carry out studies related to
the forestry sub-sector. The second, a management unit, would assume
responsibility for day-to-day operations managed by the Department
including forestry extension services at provincal and comuunal levels and
collection of fees. Project management units, including the unit which
manages the IDA-financed Projects, would come under this service. In
addition, strengthening of the Forestry Department at the regional level
would be provided as the first two out of four planned inspectorates would
be established, one for Bujumbura and one for Bururi. Technical assistance
is being provided to support these units by FAC. Provision would be made
for the completion of the Forestry Department headquarters and for
development of facilities for the new regional inspectorates at Bujumbura
and Bururi.
3.14      Technical assistance.  Because of the virtually complete absence
of trained national forestry graduates, technical assistance would be
essential throughout the Project period, to manage the Project and train
Burundi nationals to man the key positions in the forestry depeartment and
manage development efforts. The expatriate management team now in Burundi,
which consists of the project director, a forester and three volunteers
from France would be enlarged by the addition of another forester and a
rural forestry specialist who would be responsible for the expanded rural
nurseries and agroforestry component. The three volunteers working in the
rural nurseries and agroforestry component would be maintained. It is
expected that technical assistants would be phased out toward the end of
the proposed Project period as qualified and fully-trained national staff
become available. However, provisions have been made in the Project costs
for the financing of these expatriates throughout the Project
implementation period.
3.15      Studies and trials.  Various studies and trials would be
undertaken as part of the Project. The most important would address the
key problems of agroforestry and improved charcoal making; others would be
designed to address specific operational problems and explore new ideas.
Studies to support the pilot activities designed to enhance integration of
forestry and crop/livestock activities are also included. Under the
agroforestry research component existing farming systems, including tree
competition with crops, would be closely studied and ways to improve it
would be proposed; trials with new multi-purpose trees would be conducted,
including fodder trees and beekeeping. Trials of more efficient
charcoal-making by means of improved kilns (e.g. the 'Casamance kiln) and
methods would be continued and expanded. The surveys initiated during the
Phase I Project for improving livestock in project areas would be continued



- 25 -
and extended to new areas. Studies on wood pricing and future energy needs
would also be carried out by the Project staff with consultant support. In
addition the Project would include provision for monitoring and evaluation
studies, and the preparation of future investments in the forestry
sub-sector. Terms of reference for the proposed studies would be drafted
under the overall responsibility of the General Directorate of Agricultural
Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture. Along with related cost
estimates, they would be submitted for IDA approval.
D. Project Costs
3.16      Total Project costs are estimated at about BuF 2,041.3 (US$17.0
million) of which 43Z or US$ 7.3 million represent foreign exchange costs.
Details are summarized in the following table.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
X    % of Total
-B   F dlion-    ----I $ millJon-- Fore4n  Bae Costs
Iocal  Foreign  Total  local  Foreign  Total Exhange
A. Narsery/agroforestry
pilot activities    249.0   25.2  274.2   2.1    0.2   2.3   10         18
B. Ccwmercial pLatat.  422.6  156.6  579.2   3.5    1.3   4.8   27          37
C. Maintenance of
eKdstixg plantatit   18.0   35.0   53.0   0.2    0.3   0.5   66          3
D. Agroforestry
pilot research      -      29.3   29.3    -      0.2   0.2  100           2
E. Support activities
(livestock,        47.8   66.7  114.5   0.4    0.6   1.0   58            7
agriculture)      27.4   27.3   54.7   0.2    0.3   0.5   90             3
F. Institutional
strerthecrg an
project adminis.   74.7  365.4  440.2   0.6    2.9   3.5   81           28
G. Scholarships and
speaLlized traxiirg   -    20.0   20.0    -      0.2   0.2  100          2
Total Baseline Costs    839.5  725.5 1,565.1   7.0    6.0  13.0   46       100
Physical. Oxtirgexies   82.6   48.1  130.7   0.7    0.4   1.1   37           8
Price ConciencLes    239.9  105.6  345.5   2.0    0.9   2.9   31            22
Total Project Costs   1,162.0  879.2 2,041.3   9.7    7.3  17.0   43       130
_            =        _         _
3.17      Project costs were estimated as of mid-1985.  A physical
contingency of 10% was applied to the base cost estimates, technical
assistance and consultants costs excepted, to reflect general uncertainties
on quantities to be purchased under the Project. Price contingencies for
the Project costs presented in BuF are based on domestic inflation



- 26 -
estimated as follows: 18% in 1985, 12% in 1986, and 10% from 1987 onwards;
price contingencies for the Project costs expressed in US dollars are
based on an international inflation rate as follows: 52 in 1985, 7.5% in
1986, and 8% ill 1987, 1988 and 1989; the price contingencies were presented
on the basis of the BuF exchange rate being adjusted to compensate for the
difference between domestic and international inflation. Taxes included in
the Project costs are negligible since virtually all items would be exempt
from import duties. In total, 20 man/years would be required for technical
assistance, as well as 50 months of consultancies, in addition about 15
man/years would be required for assistance from the volunteers
("volontaires du progras"). The phasing and details of Project costs are
shown in Table 1.
E. Financing
3.18      The financing of Project costs would be as follows:
BuF        US$       X
(million   (million)
Government of Burundi                 195.8       1.6      10
IDA                                 1,536.0      12.8      75
FAC                                   309.5       2.6      15
Total                           2,041.3      17.0     100
FAC has agreed to continue financing technical assistance for the Project.
It is also expected that the World Food Program (WFP) would finance food
rations to be distributed to Project workers in remote areas (para 1.16).
Such a contribution would probably represent an equivalent of US$250,000
per year. This amount is not included in the Project financing plan.
Formal arrangements between WFP and the Government have been worked out; a
WFP appraisal mission visited Burundi in September-October 1984 and their
continued involvement is now secured.
3.19      The IDA credit of US$12.8 million would be extended to the
Government on standard IDA terms and conditions. The credit would cover
75% of Project costs (excluding taxes and duties), including 100% of
foreign exchange costs exclusive of technical assistance (equivalent to
US$7.3 million). FAC's contribution would represent an estimated 15% of
the total Project costs. FAC would cooperate fully with IDA on all aspects
of Project administration; cofinancing arrangements would be virtually the
same as under the first project and these have worked very smoothly.
Effectiveness of the FAC grant would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Credit. Proceeds of the credit would be passed on to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock on a grant basis. A Project revolving fund
managed by the Project Director would be maintained to ensure that adequate
funds are available for efficient Project administration. Replenishment of
the fund with Government counterpart contribution would be made on a
quarterly basis. Assurances regarding maintenance of this fund and



- 27 -
specific arrangements for payment of Government's contribution to Project
costs were obtained at negotiations.
F. Procurement
3.20      Contracts for the supply of materials and equipment exceeding US$
80,000, which would total US$0.9 million, would be awarded after
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines. Contracts would be bulked to the extent possible. The
existing Project management unit has well qualified staff and has the
experience and capability to monitor local contracting adequately.
Contracts for materials and equipment costing less than US$80,000 totalling
US$3.1 million, would be awarded following standard Government procedures
(which are acceptable to IDA) provided price quotations are obtained from
at least three suppliers. Civil works (US$1 million) would be too small to
attract the interest of international firms and are expected to be awarded
largely to local contractors following local procedures which ensure
adequate competition.
3.21      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.
(US$ million)
Project Element                Procurement method              Total cost
ICB    LCB   OTHER      NA
Vehicles, Equipment,       0.9    3.1                             4.0
& Materials              (0.9)  (3.1)                           (4.0)
Civil Works                       1.0                             1.0
(0.9)                          (0.9)
Plantation establishment                           5.7            5.7
(5.5)         (5.5)
Services                   0.3 a/         3.2 b/                  3.5
(0.3)         (0.6)                   (0.9)
Operating Costs,                                   2.8            2.8
Project Administration                           (1.5)          (1.5)
and Revolving Fund
Total            1.2    4.1    3.2       8.5          17.0
(1.2)  (4.0)  (0.6)    (7.0)         (12.8)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
Credit
a/    Consultants for livestock and agriculture support activities and
audit
b/    Including about US$2.6 million to be financed by FAC
Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at negotiations.



- 28 -
G. Disbursement
3.22      Funds from the credit would be disbursed over six and half years
on the following basis:
US $ million
(a)   100% of foreign expenditures or 95Z
of local expenditures for ex-factory            3.6
price for vehicles, equipment and
materials; and 85% of local expenditures
for other goods purchased locally;
(b)   90Z of total expenditures for civil
works, and direct costs of plantation           0.8
development;
(c) i.100Z of labor costs of plantation
establishment;                                3.4
ii.100% of labor cost for maintenance of
new plantations up to $200,000 disbursement;
then 60% until $350,000 total disbursement;
and then 30% thereafter,                       0.5
Cd)   100% of foreign expenditures for
consultants, surveys, training,                0.8
audit, monitoring and evaluation;
Ce)   40% of total expenditures for operating         1.3
costs of Project administration;
Cf)   unallocated.                                    2.4
12.8
The Forest Department would claim reimbursement on the basis of Statements
of Expenditures (SOEs) for:
(i)  civil works contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(ii)   vehicles, equipment, goods, services and operating costs for
single items or contracts costing less than US$15,000
equivalent; and
(iii)   consulting services contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent.
Withdrawals for local expenditures above these limits and for expenditur^s
in foreign currency in excess of US$5,000 equivalent would be fully
documented (invoices, evidence of payment, etc.). The suitable format for
this was agreed upon at negotiations and will be finalized in the
disbursement letter. The Forestry Department will maintain all the
relevant supporting documents for reimbursement claims under SOE for
inspection by supervision missions. During the course of the annual audit
of the Project's accounts, the auditor will be requested to certify that
all expenditures claimed under SOEs during the year have been properly



- 29 -
incurred for the Project. Assurances on these procedures were obtained at
negotiations. An estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Schedule
2. A disbursement period of six and one-half years has been utilized even
though projects in Burundi have averaged over seven years. This shorter
disbursement period is considered more realistic because:
(i)   disbursement performance under the Forestry I Project has
been good; and
(ii)   most Project disbursements would consist of labor, services,
vehicles and small equipment which are less susceptible than
other types of expenditures to delays.
3.23      Special Account.  Implementation experience under the first
Forestry Project has highlighted the Government's difficulty in
pre-financing expenditures to be reimbursed under the IDA Credit. A
revolving fund of US$0.3 million, financed under the Project, would be
established in an account to be opened in a commercial bank for the purpose
and operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. A revolving
fund was established during the latter years of implementation of the first
project, and it generally worked well. The Special Account would be
replenished by IDA upon receipt of documentary evidence to be provided by
Project management. Should any disbursements be made from the Special
Account which are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit the
corresponding amount into the Special Account. Agreements on terms and
conditions for using the Special Account were reached at negotiations.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.24      The Project management unit would maintain accounts adequate to
explain all Project activities and would improve its existing simple cost
accounting problem in order to monitor better the increasingly complex
Project activities. Experience with the first Forestry Project indicates
that although the Project Management unit was able to account fully for
Project expenditures, the system established must be beefed up in order to
become a useful management system and more than a good recording system.
In particular, accounting procedures would ensure clear differentiation
between commercial and non-commercial activities carried out under the
Project.
3.25      Project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The auditors would specifically review and comment on
the procedures used for disbursement against statement of expenditures
(para 3.22), and they would make proposals for improving Project management
and accounting systems (para 4.11). The audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Assuranzes on these conditions were obtained at negotiations.



- 30 -
I. Environmental Impact
3.26      The rapid deforestation of Burundi poses a grave threat to the
ecological stability of the Zaire/Nile crest zone, and of the entire
country. Not only does soil erosion increase with the cutting down of
trees, but soil fertility decreases as agricultural residues are used for
fuel instead of being returned to the land. The main impact of the
proposed Project would be to assist the Government's efforts to control
this process of degradation by establishing long-term policies and
practices to protect Burundi's forest resources and by providing additional
sources of firewood (para 2.17). This should reduce the illegal
destruction of forests and, in conjunction with other projects and
programs, provide sufficient fuel so that the rural population reduces its
reliance on agricultural residues for fuel. The pine plantation would have
a generally beneficial impact in the Vyanda-Vugizo area, reducing soil
erosion which is becoming a problem in that region. The livestock-
agricultural component would involve steps to maintain and increase soil
fertility on grazing and agricultural lands adjoining large project
planting areas. The promotion of agroforestry through the rural nurseries
all over the country would help the population to optimize their tree
planting, choice of trees and planting methods, in order to meet their own
needs for wood, fodder, fruit, shade and soil improvement. In the longer
term this offers the most fruitful avenue for redressing the shortage of
trees as many more trees would thus be planted, and larger areas covered
than under a more narrowly focused plantation program.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization
4.01      The Forestry Department ("Eaux et Forats") of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock would have principal responsibility for
implementation of the Project; management arrangements would be similar in
most respects to those which were established and worked smoothly under the
first Project. A strengthened Project Management Unit within the
Department would continue to be directly responsible for the development
and operation of rural nurseries and the eucalyptus and pine plantations;
it would also have specific responsibility for ensuring effective
coordination of all Project forest and agro-forestry applied research
activities with ISABU, and Project agriculture/livestock activities with
the relevant services in the Departments of Agriculture and Livestock.
Each plantation and each support activity would be managed as a separate
unit. These units would prepare their individual work plan, budget and
progress reports which would then be aggregated by the Project Management
unit. Overall monitoring and evaluation of work would be the
responsibility of the Director General of Agriculture, who would delegate
responsibility to the Director of Forestry for day-to-day operations.



- 31 -
B. Management of Project Components
4.02      Rural nurseries and agroforestry:  This component would be
managed by an internationally recruited rural forestry specialist assisted
by a Burundian Forest Agronomtst (at least Al) as deputy, 3 expatriate
Volontaires du progras " and 3 Assistant Foresters (at least A2) -one for
25-30 nurseries, as well as a small.support staff at Project headquarters.
For each nursery there would be a permanent nurseryman and a
"moniteur-vulgarisateur' (to be trained), who would be responsible for
extension work, including agroforestry, as well as the planting and
maintenance of the demonstration plants (5 ha per year close to each
nursery), and a variable number of casual laborers. Before new nurseries
are established the Project Unit would carry out a review of the commune to
determine the optimal location of each nursery and the prospective areas
earmarked for demonstration plots; the needs and preferences of the local
population for tree seedlings of all kinds would also be reviewed and taken
into account before establishing these nurseries (para 3.05). Assurances
to this effect were obtained at negotiations. The extension staff would
receive special training centrally and on the job in agroforestry. Their
work would involve mainly advice, training and follow-up to institutions
and farmers on appropriate tree-planting practices, including planting,
care and management of tree crops for wood, fodder, fruit, bee-keeping,
shade, amenity and soil protection and improvement.
4.03      Organization of eucalyptus plantations:  The Phase I and Phase II
eucalyptus plantations component would be managed by an expatriate Forester
(Silviculturist), assisted by a national Forest Agronomist (at least Al) as
deputy, four Assistant Foresters (at least A2) - one for the North
(Bukinanyana, Mageyo and Ryarusera), cne for Gakara and two for Mabanda;
a secretary-typist, 6-8 "monitors", one mechanic, two assistant mechanics,
5 drivers, two storekeepers, two nurserymen, 3 messengers, a variable
number of artisans, about 1,000 regular laborers and a large, but variable,
number of casual laborers. A small office/storeroom would be built at
Bukinanyana. At Mabanca an office, storeroom, and workshop would be built,
as well as a guest-house and housing for all the Project's technicians
excluding laborers. The expatriate forester (housed) and his deputy would
live in Bujumbura and their office would be at Project headquarters. A
nursery would be created at Bukinanyana and at least one or two nurseries
would be required at Mabanda. No additional infrastructure is required at
Gakara. These management arrangements would be suitable for plantation
development, protection, maintenance and exploitation. Exploitation of the
oldest Phase I plantations will start towards the end of Project period,
first at Mageyo, then at Gakara. A schedule for starting exploitation and
a plan to establish appropriate commercial arrangements for management and
utilization once this stage is reached would be prepared by the Forestry
Department for approval by IDA, in advance of the expected start-up of
exploitation (i.e. mid-1988). Assurances to this effect were be obtained
at negotiations.
4.04      The pine headquarters would remain at Vyanda, but a new
office-storeroom and housing for an Assistant Forester and two -moniteurs"
would be built at Vugizo. Because of the large areas involved (including



- 32 -
more than 4,000 ha of Phase I plantations) and the demands of silvicultural
treatment (mainly pruning) of the earlier plantations, the pine component
would be managed by an expatriate Forester. He would be assisted by a
national Forest Agronomist (at least Al) as deputy, 3 Assistant Foresters,
6 "moniteurs", a secretary-typist, (2 messengers, a mechanic, an assistant
mechanic, 4 drivers, 2 nurserymen (for 3 years only), 2 messengers, about
500 regular laborers, plus a large but variable number of casual laborers.
All the staff, excluding the laborers, would continue to be housed. New
nurseries would be created, as required, as Vyanda and Vugizo. As in the
case of the eucalyptus plantations, the management arrangements would be
suitable for plantation development, protection, maintenance and
exploitation. The first commercial exploitation would not take place until
after the Project period. The Government has taken all necessary legal
arrangements to ensure land availability for planting and has provided the
exact location of all planting sites.
4.05      Support gilot activities:  This component would be managed by a
unit headed by a livestock specialist (AO) specialised in extension,
assisted by two technicians (Al), one agronomiet and one livestock
specialist. The unit would report to the Project manager, and would
maintain close technical liaison with the Directorates of Agriculture, and
of Livestock. Initially the unit would be based at Vyanda, where the first
pilot actions would be implemented. The technicians would be located at
Vyanda during the first three project years, and they would subsequently be
transferred to Gakara and Mabanda. The unit would rely on the services of
existing national staff in the fields of livestock and agriculture and
groups of interested farmers, as well as consultants.
4.06      Training activities:  Training activities supported under the
Project would be concentrated in the following areas:
(i)   specialized training of agronomy graduates in forestry
abroad;
(ii)   short term training of foresters and extension workers in
agroforestry;
(iii)   on-site training of agronomists, livestock specialists,
agro-foresters, and charcoal makers by consultants;
(iv)   on-site training of foresters at all levels by the expatriate
forestry specialists
Training abroad would be carried out in accordance with specific training
programs which have been defined in broad terms. At appraisal several
training possibilities were reviewed. It was agreed with the Burundi
authorities that the Montpellier University, France, would provide the most
appropriate training for the agronomists to be specialized in forestry.



- 33 -
Short-term training and refresher courses in forestry and agroforestry
would be organized at ITAB and other suitable establishments in Burundi and
abroad. On-site training of specialists and technicians would be carried
out by the expatriate team through increased responsibility in technical
fields and management in close collaboration with the expatriate team.
Specific training programs would be agreed upon in the context of the
annual work plan (para 4.07) which would include a section on training.
The annual plan would also include specific plans for phasing out
expatriate services and transferring responsibility to Burundi staff; a
schedule would be reviewed each year. Assurances on these arrangements
were obtained at negotiations.
C. Annual Work Plans
4.07      Implementation of all Project activities would be carried out on
the basis of annual plans and budgets approved by the Director of
Agriculture and by IDA. These would be prepared by the officer in charge
of each project component and aggregated by the Project Manager. Plans and
budgets for the agro-forestry applied research component would also be
discussed with and approved by ISABU's Director General. Past experience
with the first Forestry Project indicates that the Project management unit
prepared adequate and timely annual work plans, and they served as a useful
management tool. The Project annual plan and budget would detail Project
objectives and targets for the year in question, specific activities to be
carried out, and the human and financial resources, including consultant
and training needs, for carrying on the proposed work program. They would
include the following: (a) a brief evaluation of the previous year's
performance as compared to objectives and a discussion of how results
obtained are related to the new program; (b) detailed investment and
operating budgets; (c) a description of the program of activities,
including quantified implementation objectives, output, performance, and
project impact indicators, where appropriate; (d) staffing and training
plans with a statement of specific objectives; (e) a financing plan; and
(f) a procurement plan. Expected proceeds from wood sales from commercial
plantations would also be included in the work plan as appropriate.
Assuraunces on these arrangements, including timing of preparation and
approval (para 4.08) and the outline of the annual plan (Annex 6), were
obtained at negotiations.
4.08      To ensure that the Project's budgetary requirements are
adequately taken into account in the Government's annual budgetary
allocation cycle, preparation of the annual work plan and budget would be
completed for submission to IDA by September 30 of the year preceding the
fiscal year in question. This would give adequate time for processing the
budget request through the Ministry of Agriculture's Budget and Finance
Department and including it in the draft ministerial budget submitted by
the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Finance; this would also
permit Project management to modify and refine proposals before the start
of the fiscal year in January should the final budgetary allocations differ
from budgetary estimates.



- 34 -
D. Staffing
4.09      Local staff.  The implementation of the proposed Project would
require three forest agronomists (Al), one per component (rural nurseries
and agroforestry; eucalyptus, and pine plantations), 10 assistant foresters
(A2), three for rural nurseries, four for eucalyptus plantation, and three
for the pine plantation, one permanent nurseryman and one moniteur-
vulgarisateur per nursery, as well as 12 to 14 moniteurs (6 to 8 for
eucalyptus plantations; 6 for pine plantations), 4 nursery men for the
plantations (two for eucalyptus, two for pine and 23 support staff
including four assistant mechanics, nine drivers, two secretary-typists,
five messengers, two storekeepers. A training specialist (AO) graduated
from the Institut Superieur de Developpement Rural would head the
Livestock-Agriculture unit; he would be assisted by one livestock
specialist (Al) and one agronomist (Al). The implementation of the
livestock activities would require three livestock technicians, three
assistant-veterinarians, and 12 support staff, including five
investigators. The implementation of the agricultural activities would
require one technician ("chef de culture") and four support staff for each
p.oduction and demonstration center, and five teams composed of one team
leader and six workers each. One of the forest agronomists would be deputy
technical director of the Project. In addition, a financial expert with
managerial experience would be responsible for administrative and financial
management of the Project in order to enable the project director to devote
sufficient time to monitoring of field operations. This expert would also
be involved in preparing tLe phase of exploitation/utilization of the
plantations, for which he would receive short-term consultancy assistance
to be partly provided by FAC (para 6.02). Appointment of the three Forest
Agronomists (Al) and the training specialist would be a condition of
disbursement for the relevant Project components (rorest-y, agroforestry
and training).
4.10      Technical assistance.  Four expatriates would be required for
implementation of the proposed afforestation program: one silviculturist
would be the Project manager; one silviculturist would r .nage Phase I and
Phase II eucalyptus plantations, and another one the pine piantations; a
rural forestry specialist, assisted by three volunteers "'voloncaires du
progras") would manage the rural nurseries and agro-forestry components.
The costs of these technical assistants are expected to be financed by FAC
(para 3.18) and it is anticipated that CFTF would continue to provide
services as they have under the forest project. Short-term consultants
would also be utilized (including 10 months each for livestock and
agriculture activities and 15 months for agro-forestry). IDA would be
consulted on the choice of the consultants by FAC and the Burundi
Government. Appointment of those specialists would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations.



- 35 -
E. Implementation and Monitoring
4.11      The Project would be implemented over a five-year period,
beginning in July 1985. Schedule 2 provides a tentative implementation
schedule. Explicit monitoring and evaluation arrangements have been worked
out for all Project activities (paras 3.13 and 4.07), and annual progress
reports would be required for the various project activities. The Phase I
Project management unit has set up a simple and efficient monitoring system
which has provided useful information on Project key indicators. Because
of the increased complexity of the proposed Project, a more elaborate
monitering system would be established with the assistance of external
auditors during the first year of the Project (para 3.25). The Foresty
Department would also prepare a completion report summarizing Project
performance and evaluating its impact. The report would be submitted to
the Bank not later than six months after the closing date. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations. It bears note that the Forestry
Department plans to prepare a completion report on the First Project by
March 1986 (six months after the planned closing date).
V. Technical and Production Aspects
A. Technical Aspects
5.01      For the main Project plantations, the following criteria have
been used in the identification of planting sites: (a) the land should be
considered unsuitable for agriculture because of soil or slope; (b) the
land should be suitable for tree planting; (c) an aggregate of at least 50C
ha should be identified in blocks of not less than 25 ha within a radius of
approximately 5 km; and (d), for logistic reasons (proximity to markets),
the sites should be located in the western part of the country. All the
areas proposed in the preparation report were carefully examined, and only
5,000 ha were identified as meeting the above criteria. The following
areas were thus agreed upon:
Estimated Net Area
Province               Locality                  (Ha)
Cibitoke                Bukinanyana                 500
Bujumbura                Gakara                      500
Makamba                 Mabanda                   2,500
Total Eucalyptus                                  3,500
Bururi                  Vyanda                    1,000
Makamba                  Vwigizo                    500
Total Pine                                        1,500
Total commercial plantations                      5,000



- 36 -
In addition to these 5,000 ha, it was agreed that near each of the 90 rural
nurseries (60 existing ones and 30 to be established under the project), 5
ha of demonstration plots would be planted annually. Some 2,000 ha of
scattered woodlots would thus be planted nationwide during the Project
period. The grand total area of plantations would therefore be 7,000 ha.
5.02      Topography and soils. All the proposed planting sites (excluding
the demonstration plantations) would be situated in the Mumirwa natural
region or its southern extension, west of or on the Zaire-Nile divide,
mostly on hill tops or steep slopes and relatively poor soils, used for
rough grazing. The altitude would be mostly between 1,500 and 2,000 m.
Though most of the areas chosen have no agricultural potential, the soils
are generally adequate for tree-growing. Extremely poor, rocky or steep
sites would be left unplanted as it is not intended to create essentially
protection plantations under the Project.
5.03      Climate and rainfall.  The average annual rainfall throughout the
Project area generally exceeds 1,400 um, except at Mabanda where it may go
down to 1,200 -; nowhere does it normally exceed 2,000 mm. Mean
temperatures vary from 150 to 250C, with extremes of 100 to 300C. Hail
occurs occasionally. Mist is frequent, particularly at higher
elevations. The main rainy season is from September to May, with the peak
in March-April. June to August are the dry months. There are usually some
short rains during the dry season and a short dry season in January-
February. The main tree planting seasons will be November-December and
March-April, though there will be regional and annual variations. It is
expected that more or less prolonged droughts will occasionally occur at
Mabanda, which would cause a fire hazard. Termites may also be troublesome
at Mabanda .
5.04      Population and land use. All the land in the proposed large
planting sites is currently unutilized for agriculture, though it may be
used by the local population for rough grazing. All land already under
crops or even potentially suitable for crops in the designated areas would
be left unplanted. It is not intended to dispossess anyone arbitrarily or
to deprive the local population of potential agricultural land. Population
is relatively sparse (well below 50/ku2) in nearly all the designated
areas, though there may be more densely populated pockets nearby,
particularly around Bukinanyana. The designation of all the planting sites
has been completed (paras 4.03 and 4.04). By law, unutilized land belongs
to the Government and, in practice, all claims, real or imaginary,
involving agricultural land are carefully examined and arbitrary action is
not allowed. Grazing claims, however, are more difficult to deal with, and
during Phase I the local population at Vyanda (Bururi) has understandably
protested at the loss of grazing land, though the Project unit has always
consulted the representatives of the local population before planting any
new block of forest and has ensured that the total area planted anywhere
does not exceed 25% of the gross area. Every effort is being made to keep



- 37 -
the goodwill of the local population, and under the Project it is proposed
to provide assistance to grazing, livestock and agriculture in order to
ensure that production and income do not decrease, or may even possibly
improve, despite the loss of grazing land to forestry. A small-scale pilot
action has already started at Vyanda, and it is proposed to extend it
gradually during the Project to other large plantation areas on a modular
pilot basis (para 4.05).
B. Production Aspects
5.05      Rural nurseries and agroforestry.  Each of the rural nurseries
would produce at least 40-50,000 seedlings per year (para 3.04). At least
for Eucalyptus the earthball technique would gradually replace the use of
polythene tubes, thus reducing cost and transport problems. Trials would
also be made with the sale of small packets of seed with instructions in
Kirundi and French. The main species would probably be Eucalyptus grandis
above 1,200 m and E. tereti-cornis below 1,200 m. The Project would also
support plantations of demonstration eucalyptus plots annually close to
each rural nursery (para 3.05). The techniques would generally be the same
as those used in large-scale eucalyptus plantations, though various
spacings (from 2 m x 2 m to 2.5 a x 2.5 m) and eucalyptus species would be
tried.
Program of Rural Nurseries
Year                   1      2       3       4      5     Total
No. of nurseries            70     75       80     85     00       -
No. of seedlings
produced (million)          3.0    3.25    3.5    3.75   4.0    17.5
Area planted (ha):
(2000 plants/ha)
(a) demonstration
plots                       350    375      400    425    450    2,000
(b) private plots
(estimated area)          1,150  1.250   1,350  1,450  1,550    6,750
Total area planted        1,500  1,625   1,750  1,875  2,000    8,750
The average overhead cost per seedling produced is estimated at BuF 2.4
(US$.01) at 1984 prices.  The average direct cost per seedling produced is
estimated at BuF 8.8 (US$0.073) at 1984 prices, but more than half that
cost covers extension services for agroforestry and the supervision of the
planting and maintenance of 2,000 ha of demonstration plots; the strict



- 38 -
production cost of seedlings in rural nurseries, including overhead but
excluding extension services and maintenance of demonstration plots, is
estimated at BuF 7.0 (US$0.058) per seedling at 1984 prices.
5.06      Eucalyptus fuelvood and pole commercial -plantations.
(a)       Afforestation.  The planting program would be at Gakara (500 ha),
Bukinanyana (500 ha) and Mabaida (2,500 ha). At Gakara the plantations
would be situated on a series of small hills covered with secondary
heathland which were probably under forest until fairly recently. The
soils are therefore generally adequate to good and mean annual increments
(HAI) of 10-15 m3/ha may be expected. The plantations at Bukinanyana would
be situated on poor, bare eroded hill-tops end fairly steep slopes, in
several blocks of at least 25 ha each (not yet exactly identified and
demarcated). Very rocky areas or patches would be left unplanted. The
soils are generally adequate for tree-growth and reasonable yields (average
MAI's of 10-12 m3/ha) may be expected. The sites at Mabanda are generally
flatter, with a large plateau and some hill-tops and slopes, consisting
mostly of rough grazing. Termites might normally be a problem over part of
the area. The soils are probably poor, and MAI's should not exceed 10
m3/ha. However, with complete or strip ploughing or hoeing and
fertilization higher growth rates should be achieved. The species would
probably be mainly E. grandis at Gakara and Bukinanyena, but at M-abanda
E.camaldulensis and E.tereti-cornis might be more appropriate.  The spacing
would be 2 m 50 x 2 ii 50, equivalent to 1,600 trees per hectare.
Planting Proram - Eucalyptus
Area (ha)
Year       1      2       3     4      5      Total
Gakara              500     -       -     -      -       500
Bukinanyana          -     200    300    -       -       500
Mabanda              -      400    500   800    800    2,500
Total     500    600    800   800    800    3,500
No. of Plants Required (Million) 1/
Gakara              1.0     -       -     -      -       1.0
Bukinanyana          -     0.4    0.6    -       -       1.0
Mabanda                    0.8    1.0   1.6    1.6       5.0
Total     1.0    1.2    1.6   1.6    1.6       7.0
11 allowing 2,000 per ha, including replacements and losses.



- 39 -
The eucalyptus plantations personnel listed in para 4.03 would cost BuF
19.4 million altogether. They would be employed both on new (Phase II)
plantations and on the maintenance of Phase I plantations. In nurseries,
about half the seedlings would be produced in small black polythene tubes
and half in earth-balls. Direct sowing in tubes would be tried. At
Mabanda some nursery treatment might be necessary against termites, using
repeated spraying with an acceptable termicide. The average direct
production cost per seedling is BuF 4, of which 3/4 is for labor and 1/4
for seed, materials and equipment. For transport of plants and materials 2
trucks, 3 tractors and 9 trailers would be required, in addition to the
vehicles and equipment already existing at Gakara. Soil preparation would
be manual (pitting), except  over half of Mabanda where it would be
semi-mechanical. The equipment required for ploughing would be one
track-type tractor and two disc ploughs. The planting operations
include pegging, pitting, fertilization, filling of holes, planting and
replacing failures. The total average cost of soil preparation and
planting would be BuF 32,000/ha, about 52% for labor, 22% for fertilizer,
21% for equipment and 5% for running costs and tools. On average, there
would be one weeding operation in the first plantation year and two weeding
operations in Years 2 and 3, at 40 md/ha per operation (+5% for tools).
(b)       Indirect afforestation activities.  The average new road work
density would be one km per 100 ha of plantations for roads and 3 km per
100 ha for tracks. The work would be done manually, except at Mabanda
where use could be made of the existing bulldozer from Vyanda. The average
cost per km would be BuF 1.5 million for roads and BuF 240,000 for tracks,
about 3/4 for labor and 1/4 for materials and running costs. Annual
maintenance costs per km would be BuP 200,000 for roads and BuF 16,000 for
tracks. Firebreaks 10 m wide would be laid and opened manually at an
average density of 1 km per 20 ia at an average cost per km of BuF 20,000
for labor and BuP 2,000 for tools. Annual firebreak maintenance costs per
km would be BuF 3,000 for labor and BuF 300 for tools. Additional costs
would include new housing, particularly at Mabanda, other buildings
(offices, store-rooms, workshops) and equipment (water pump, piped water
system, electric power) at Mabanda, altogether BuF 36.6 million, including
running costs and equipment maintenance.
(c)       Cutting cycle and yields.  It is assumed that the average cutting
cycle will be 8 years, with one seedling and three coppice rotations. It
is also assumed that overall about a third of the Project eucalyptus
plantations would produce high yields (mean annual increments or MAI of 15
m3/ha or more), a third would produce an MAI of 12 m3/ha and a third an KAI
of 10 m3/ha or less. On the average therefore the MAI would probably be
about 12 m3/ha during the first two rotations and 10 u3/ha thereafter.



- 40 -
Yields (m3lha)
Year                        good              average           poor
HAI  Total Vol.    MAI Total Vol.    MAI Total Vol.
8-seedling             15      120        1A      96        10       80
16-coppice 1            15      120       12       96        10      80
24-coppice 2            12       96        10      80         8       64
32-coppice 3            12       96        10      80         8       64
It is assumed that 25% of the volume will be sold as poles and 75% as
fuelwood for charcoal production.
5.07      Pine timber plantations
(a)       Afforestation.  The Pine planting program would be completed in 3
years, at the rate of 500 ha a year. They would be situated at an average
elevation of 2,000 m, on bare, grassy hills used so far for extensive
grazing. The average rainfall exceeds 1,500 mm and mean temperatures vary
from 100 to 250C. Hail occurs infrequently. Blocks of at least 25 ha, but
usually 50-100 ha, would be planted. Very rocky or poor sites and
extremely steep slopes would be left unplanted. The soils are not
particularly good, but provided the worst sites are avoided an average MAI
of at least 10 m3/ha may be expected, rising to 12 m3/ha or more on better
sites. The species would be mostly Pinus patula, with possibly some of the
other upland tropical pines (e.g. P.elliottii and P.kesiya). It is
important to use good quality imported seed of the right provenances. The
spacing would continue to be 3 m x 3 m (or about 1,100 trees per hectare).
Pine Planting Program
Year        1        2       3       4        5       Total
Vyanda                     500     500       -       -       -        1,000
Vugizo                      -       -      500       _       -          500
1,500
No. of Plants Required (Million)l/
Vyanda                     0.7     0.7           -           -         1.4
Vugizo                      -       -       0.7              -         0.7
Total      0.7     0.7      0.7      -       -         2.1
1/ allowing 1,400 per ha, including replacements and losses.



- 41 -
The pine plantations pergonnel listed in para 4.04 would cost BuF 15
million altogether. They would be employed on both new (Phase II)
plantations, but also on the maintenance of Phase I plantatioas. In
nurseries about half the seedlings would be produced in small black
polythene tubes and half in earth balls. Direct sowing in tubes would be
tried. In new nurseries (e.g at Vugizo) mycorrhizal inoculation would be
necessary. The planting operations would include pegging, pitting,
fertilization, filling of holes, planting and replacing failures. The
total average cost of soil preparation and planting would be BuF 12,000/ha
for labor and BuF 600/ha for tools. On average, there would be one weeding
during the first plantation year, two weedings the second year and 1-2
weedings the third year, at 20 md/ha (+5 for tools) per operation.
(b)       Indirect afforestation activities.  The average new road work
density would be one km per 100 ha of plantations for roads and 3 km per
100 ha for tracks. The work would be done mainly by bulldozer (frov Phase
I) at an average cost per km of BuF 1.5 million for roads and BuF 240,000
for tracks, about 3/4 for labor and 1/4 for materials and running costs.
Annual maintenance costs per km would be BuF 200,000 for roads and BuF
16,000 for tracks. Firebreaks 10 m wide would be laid and opened manually
at an average density of 1-km per 20 ha, at an average cost per km of BuF
20,000 for labor and BuF 2,000 for tools. Annual firebreak maintenance
costs per km would be BuF 3,000 for labor and BuF 300 for tools. Building
costs would include some additional housing and an office-store room at
Vugizo (BuF 3.7 million), but nothing new at Vyanda.
(c)       Silvicultural treatment and yield.  The primary objective of the
Pine plantations is the production of timber, and the rotation age and
silvicultural treatment will be related to that objective. It is assumed
that the average mean annual increment (MAI) will be 12 m3/ha, with the
best stands producing an MAI of 15 m3/ha or more and the poorest stands
producing an MAI of 10 m3/ha or less. During Phase II very poor, rocky and
unproductive areas would be avoided as far as possible.
Proposed Treatment and Expected Yields
Age      Silvicultural                         Yield (m3/ha)
(Years)      Treatment                    Smallwood      Sawlogs   Total
6-7      Pruning I (all stems,
900 sph, 1/ to 2 m 50)
9-10     Thinning I (from 900 to
600 sph)                          30             -        30
Pruning II (500 sph, to
4 m 50)
12-13     Thinning II (from 600 to
400 sph)                          30             30       60
Pruning II (300 sph, to 6 m 50)
15-16     Thinning III (400 to 250 sph)    30              30        60
25       Clearfelling                      30            120       150
120           180       300
1/ sph = stems per hectare



- 42 -
5.08      Existing (Phase I) plantations.  (a) General.  The Phase I
eucalyptus plantations, including those proposed for 1984-85, would total
approximately 2,050 ha, of which 380 ha at Mageyo, 1,520 ha at Gakara and
150 ha at Ryarusera. It is estimated that some 950 ha (46Z) are good,
i.e. with an average mean annual increment (MAI) of 15 m3/ha, some 900 ha
(44Z) are average, i.e. with an average MAI of 12 m3/ha, and only about 200
ha (1OZ) are poor, i.e. with an average MAI of 10 m3/ha or less. The Phase
I pine plantations, including those proposed for 1984-85, would total
approximately 4,050 ha, nearly all at Vyanda, of which 1,300 ha (32%) would
be good, i.e. with an average MAI of 12 m3/ha; 2,000 ha (49%) would be
average, i.e. with an average MAI of 10 m3/ha; and 750 ha (19Z) would be
poor, i.e. with an average MAI below 10 m3/ha. Approximately 50 ha of pine
and callitris at Mageyo are considered to have failed because of very poor
soil conditons and will be used for grazing trials with sheep .
(b)       Silvicultural treatment maintenance and protection.  All these
Phase I plantations would be patrolled by forest guards, at approximately
one guard per 200 ha. The youngest plantations would require standard
weeding, for one year at Mageyo, two years at Ryarusera, three years at
Gakara and two years at Vyanda. Fertilization would take place over 120 ha
at Mageyo, 500 ha at Gakara and 500 ha at Vyanda (at the rate of 100 ha per
year). Firebreaks would be maintained everywhere, and allowance would be
made for fire watch and fire-fighting, as well as for road and building
maintenance, and vehicle running costs. The average overhead costs per ha,
including a share of technical assistance, consultancies and all Project
headquarters costs, are estimated at BuF 8,350 (US$70), or BuF 1,670
(US$14) per annum over five years.
5.09      Pilot activities.  The pilot activities would aim at testing an
integrated sylvo-pastoral approach (para 2.16). As such no large
additional production of meat or foodstuffs is expected at a national level
(para 6.08). At the farm level, however, improved cultural practices,
including the use of selected seeds and of farmyard manure would eventually
increase annual farm income between 5-30%. This would represent an
aggregated US$25,000 net annual income per pilot zone (500 farms) and
US$100,000 for the four pilot zones. The livestock pilot activities would
eventually generate increased meat production from about 400 tons to about
600 tons a year and the net annual income of cattle owners would increase
by 60%, including the net benefits from expected increased milk production
(BuF 40 million or US$350,000).
VI. Markets and Prices, Financial and Fiscal Analysis
A. Marketing and Prices
6.01      At present the Government's policy on cost recovery related to
forestry is in a transitional phase. The Government is adopting a policy
of moving towards recovery of all costs except those for extension
services. This would involve charging full production costs for seedlings



- 43 -
and setting stumpage and permit fees at levels which would allow the
Forestry Department to cover its operational costs as well as to maintain
the present annual afforestation levels. However, at present, charges are
set at lower levels (para 2.13). In addition the Government has realized
increasingly the complexity of enforcement problems. It is concerned that
too high or too abrupt stumpage rate or seedling price increases could have
a negative impact, notably encouraging illegal cutting or discouraging
farmers from planting trees. These issues are currently under active
debate within the Government in the context of the Forest policy paper
which it recently approved (paras 2.17 and 2.18). These policy issues
were discussed at negotiations and agreements were reached on the basic
principles of pricing to which Government would be committed (paras 6.02
and 6.03). A frauework of objectives and timetable for establishing an
implementation plan were agreed upon within this context (para 2.18).
6.02      Pricing principles and mechanisms.  Some specific issues on
levels of charges and mechanisms for application have been handled in the
context of Forestry I project. Notably, seedlings have been sold at prices
that have increased steadily. Although the Government agreed under the
Forestry I Project to charge full stumpage rates this has had no direct
application to date because plantations are not yet productive. The
Government recognizes now the need to set these specific cost recovery
actions in a broader policy context. Thus, under this Project, support
would be provided both for the analytic and implementation work needed to
establish a clear cost recovery system. Specific cost recovery provisions
for Project-financed plantations and nurseries would be elaborated within
this framework. Some of the oldest eucalyptus plantations created under
Phase I would be harvested by clearfelling during Phase II, while the first
pine thinnings from Phase I plantations would come just after the end of
the Project period. Revenues from sales coming out of the production from
the Phase I and Phase II plantations should, in due course, cover at least
the cost of plantation and maintenance of these plantations, as well as
their replacement and debt servicing (para 6.12). This could be expected
to take place by the end of the Project period.
6.03      More specifically, pricing mechanisms need to be worked out for
each major category of forest products. During the First Forestry Project
implementation, the price of seedlings sold to farmers has been raised
periodically so as to cover approximately half of production costs. This
practice would continue and would be standardized. The project unit would
review the production costs of seedlings annually and prices for the
different categories of seedlings would be revised annually in order to
recover at least half of the costs in the case of bona fide farmers (i.e.,
those purchasing up to 100 seedlings a year) and at least the full cost for
commercial purchases. Seedlings would be sold, not issued free of charge
to communes. On a limited, experimental but possibly expanding basis,
seedlings would also be given free to "institutional' users, e.g. schools.
The subsidy implied in the above prices is justified because of the vital
importance of promoting tree plantings by farmers and their low purchasing



- 44 -
power. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. For pine
and eucalyptus commercial plantations, a substantial increase in stumpage
rates over present levels would be needed to achieve full cost recovery by
the end of the Project period. For purposes of the financial analysis of
the Project, and projection of Government's cash flow (paras
6.12-7.05-7.06) an increase in the stumpage rates of 202 annually in real
terms has been assumed, which would ensure such cost recovery (see Annex
5). However, the precise formula to be applied for the determination of
appropriate pricing levels will need to be further refined, and its
viability tested, taking into account: (a) the past, current and expected
prices for fuelwood and poles; (b) the cost of alternative sources of
energy, e.g. kerosene; (c) the distance between the plantations and
consumption centers; (d) the existence of "free' plantations, public or
private; and Ce) other factors. Such formula would not in itself guarantee
full cost recovery but it would ensure that Government would not charge
below what the market will bear. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that a detailed pricing mechanism acceptable to IDA, based on a stumpage
rate study, would be put in place by December 31, 1988, i.e. before the
Phase I plantations come into production, with the objective of setting
stumpage rates at levels expected to cover existing plantations investment
and maintenance costs, as well as their replacement and debt services.
6.04      Marketing.  The market for eucalyptus plantation production is
virtually guaranteed since it would be producing fuelwood (75Z) for
Bujumbura in quantities which would be well below demand in the 1990s and
beyond, and poles (25X) for which there is a strong demand in Bujumbura and
all over the country. The price for poles is more than double that for
fuelwood. Special emphasis would be placed under this Project on efforts
to obtain a better yield on a national scale for charcoal makers (para
3.15).
6.05      Pine produced under the Project at Vyanda and Vugizo would be
marketed throughout the country. Pine or cypress wood is no longer
imported from Kenya and in practice is not available from any neighboring
country. Domestically grown sawn timber is so scarce as to be virtually
unobtainable in any significant amount. The scarcity of sawnlogs and the
great difficulties encountered in securing imports of sawn timber are
responsible for the extremely low present consumption of sawn timber in
Burundi and its replacement by other costly imported substitutes such as
metal frames and furniture. Timber is sold standing at a flat rate
according to the circumference measurement at breast height. Only a few
native species, conifers (including pine) and Grevillea are listed as
timber trees. The stumpage fee varies from BuF 200 (US$1.70) to BuF 3,450
(US$29) per tree according to its size. For instance, a tree measuring 95
cm in circumference (or 30 cm in diameter) would cost BuF 500(US$4)
regardless of its height, volume or quality. There are doubts as to the
validity of such a system and there may be grounds for changes so that the
stumpage be based on volume and not per piece. The study referred to above
(para 6.03) would make recommendations on this matter. Assurances



- 45 -
were obtained at negotiations that pine timber stumpage rates would be
determined so as to reach a level expected t:o reflect full cost recovery by
December 31, 1989.  Rates would be adjusted upwards annually taking into
account inflation.
6.06      The first thinnings yielding saw logs at Vyanda are not expected
until after the end of the Project period.  Nevertheless studies would be
carried out to determine, on the basis of growth rates, the potential
production in thinnings, both as sawlogs and as smallwood (probably
fuelwood), during the 1990s. The first clearfellings would take place
early in the next century. However, a first sawmill would be justified
sometime before 1995, as soon as sawlog size material (of relatively small
diameters) becomes available in sufficient quantity (say 10,000m3 p.a.). A
small modular sawmilling unit should be put up at first, which could be
enlarged gradually in order to reach a total capacity of say 30-50,000m3
p.a. per sawmill. All smallwood would be readily utilized in charcoal
burning. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that IDA would be
consulted on marketing, processing and pricing arrangements for the pine
plantations prior to the end of the Project period.
6.07      Experience in Burundi during the first Forestry Project suggests
that farmers are keen to grow trees for their own needs on their land and
that they are willing and ready to purchase seedlings. As indicated above
(paras 3.04 and 3.05) it is intended to take into account the needs and
preferences of farmers in the choice of seedlings and to give them greater
support in agro-forestry. Thus it is expected that all of the production
of the rural nurseries will be readily disposed of.
6.08      Livestock and agricultural production.  The pilot activities
proposed aim at testing integrated activities involving livestock and
agriculture, which might be repeated on a larger scale in future projects.
They are not expected to generate substantial additional outputs or to have
a significant impact on quantities traded or on prices at the national
level.
B. Financial Analysis
6.09      The proposed Project entity, like the Forestry Department, is not
strictly a commercial enterprise and performs many functions whose costs
cannot be fully recovered and whose benefits cannot be precisely accounted
for. This would be particularly the case for the agroforestry research
component, the livestock and agriculture support activities and the rural
nurseries and agroforestry component. However, as regards commercial
plantations, for which the Forestry Department would apply the principle of
full cost recovery, royalties would be expected to cover costs by the end
of the Project period. The Forestry Department would start collecting
revenues in 1989 (from Phase I) and in 1994 (from Phase II). These
revenues are expected to cover maintenance costs of existing plantations
and would be sufficient to cover the present budget of the Forestry
Department (the total budget for 1983 was BuF 72 million [pars 2.05]). The
objectives for 1988 stated in the forest policy review are a total



- 46 -
budget of BuF 175 million (BuF 55 million for ordinary; BuF 120 million for
investments) while annual average revenues from Phases I and II wood Bales
would be about BuF 250 million for about 30 years starting in 1990 (Annex 5
- Implementation Volume). Thus, while there are a number of uncertainties,
particularly on the ability of the Government to recover the full cost of
fuelwood plantations, current projections suggest that the plantation
program has a reasonable chance of becoming financially self-sustaining in
the medium-term future, and could make a significant contribution to the
financial health of the Forest Department.
6.10      Tables 13-15 in Annex 5 show the returns expected from Project
investments in commercial plantations. These afforestation activities
would have a financial rate of return of 9.2% and would break even in 12
years. If the stumpage rates were raised to cover only 80% of costs, the
financial rate of return would be 8.2%. With the assumption of stumpage
rates set at levels assuring full cost recovery, the financial rate of
return for the pine plantations would be 10.6% and that for the eucalyptus
plantations would be 8.5%.
6.11      To show the impact of livestock and agriculture support
activities on farm family income, farm budgets without and with the Project
have been worked out. Table III Annex 3 and Annex 4 of the Implementation
Volume shows that without the Project farm net income would be BuF 52,210
(US$435) (for agriculture) and BuF 13,800 (US$1,153) (for livestock).
Adoption of selected seeds and manure only would raise these figures by 33%
and 25% to US$579 and US$1,450, respectively. Adoption of improved
techniques would raise the figures for livestock to US$1,881.
C. Fiscal Analysis
6.12      The Project's impact on the Government cashflow is shown in
Table 2. Projections are in estimated current prices through mid-1990
(Project Year 5) and in estimated constant 1990 prices thereafter. In both
cases and in all years, Government outlays for Project activities would
exceed direct revenues generated as a result of Project activities.
However, revenues generated from Phase I plantations wood sales are
expected as soon as mid-1989 (PY 4) and should gradually increase. This
would progressively decrease the direct financial burden on the Government
budget finance by 1990 to create a net cash flow situation (para 6.09).
The average revenues from Phase II plantations would be about US$0.9
million per year until 2023. This would compare to a total US$0.6 million
budget allocated to the Forestry Department in 1983 (para 2.05). The
Project has been designed to minimize long-term fiscal recurrent costs and
the institutional arrangements have been designed in order to eliminate
permanent technical assistance to the Project. It is our view that the
forestry program represents a high priority for Burundi's development, and
the proposed investments and Government contributions are reasonable in
scale and within the Government's financial possibilities. The same
comment would apply if difficulties in ensuring full cost recovery from
fuelwood plantations delayed the expected date of break-even in financing
of Project activities.



- 47 -
6.13      Public net outflow is about US$1.2 million in the first Project
year, about US$1.1 million during the other disbursement years, and about
US$0.5 million per year thenafter until 1993. Plantation revenues are
expected to start from about US$1 million in 1993 and to reach an average
US$1.4 million thereafter.
VII. Benefits and Justification
A. Benefits
7.01      The Project is expected to bring about substantial quantifiable
and non-quantifiable benefits to the country and its population. The
principal direct benefits from the Project are: seedlings produced by
70-90 rural nurseries and planted by farmers on their own land for their
own use (agroforestry); fuelwood, charcoal and poles from eucalyptus
plantations. It is estimated that 13.5 million seedlings would be planted
by farmers all over the country, representing the equivalent of 6,750 ha of
private plantations producing at least 67,500 m3 per annum at full
production by the mid-nineties and for several decades thereafter. This
would also supply the fuelwood and pole needs of approximately 60,000 rural
families or about 8Z of the farming community. In addition the farmers
would derive benefits from the planting of fruit, shade, soil-improving and
multi purpose trees of their choice. Provided wood stumpages are increased
sufficiently to allow full cost recovery, the Government would benefit
directly from the eucalyptus and pine plantations, though the ultimate wood
users would be the urban population of Bujumbura and a small proportion of
the population which is relatively affluent and lives within a market
economy. The pine timber (60% of the pine volume produced) would provide
the needs of the population in a commodity which is alrsady extremely
scarce and valuable in Burundi; it would contribute significantly to limit
the needs for imprts by the turn of the century. The project's new
eucalyptus plantations (2,000 ha + 3,500 ha) would by the mid-nineties
produce an average of 66,000 m3 per annum and for several decades, of which
some 16,000 m3 would be poles and 5,000 m3 would be fuelwood. This would
be enough for the production of 6,000 tons of charcoal via more efficient
charcoal-making methods or could meet the needs of about 60,000 people in
Bujumbura (about one quarter of the present population). Some additional
benefits would be derived from the 2,050 ha of Phase I eucalyptus
plantations maintained during the project. The project's new pine
plantations (1 500 ha) would start pro-ducing by the turn of the century,
about 15,000 m of smallwood (probably all fuelwood) per annum at first,
then shortly afterwards, a further 15,000m3 of sawlogs per annum, enough to
produce some 6,000m3 of sawn timber per annum for a few years.
Clearfelling would take place around the year 2010 and for 3 years would
produce 60,000m3 of sawlogs or 24,000m3 of sawn timber and 15,000 m3 a year
of smallwood.  Some additional benefits would be derived from the 4,100 ha
of Phase I pine plantations maintained during the Project. Realistically,
however, the benefits and production of the pine plantations should be
considered in the light of a sustained planting program throughout the



- 48 -
length of the timber rotation (25 years) so as to support a viable
sawmilling irdustry which could only be justified if regular supplies were
ensured.
7.02      The main benefit expected from the proposed pilot scheme of
assistance to livestock and agriculture would be a local population
positively disposed to afforestation, with a higher standard of living and
an improved farm production. These benefits cannot be quantified at this
stage. If it is successful, however, the scheme is expected to provide
extremely valuable experience in the integration of large afforestation
projects into the broader context of rural development and, more
specifically, the gradual change in grazing practice from extensive
ranching to stall-feeding of cattle.
7.03      In addition the Project's technical assistance, cunsultancies and
training components would assist in developing an effective forestry
service, as well as launching agro-forestry and an integrated agro-silvo
pastoral approach. Further benefits would result if the rural nurseries
and agroforestry component were to encourage part of the rural population
to reduce the use of agricultural residues for fuel as this would improve
soil fertility and probably reduce soil erosion. Such benefits cannot,
bowever, be readily estimated or quantified. The likely positive impact of
the pine plantations on the local environment has already been mentioned
(para 3.26). Finally, the project would have a significant impact on
employment, as it is expected that the regular full-time labor force would
total some 2,000, while the additional casual labor force would be at least
4,000 to 5,000 at peak periods.
B. Justification
7.04      Afforestation is recognized as a national priority and as such,
the Project represents an integral part of Government's strategy of
addressing the pressing food and energy needs of Burundi's population.
However, the projects implemented over the past few years have not been
based on a well defined forest policy; such a policy has now been
broadly defined (paras 2.16 to 2.19).  This Project would address the
growing wood demand of the population, the protection of the natural
environment, wood import substitution, and is related to the needs for
agriculture and livestock development.  It would aim at assisting the
Government in coordinating extensive assistance for forestry.
7.05      Because there are several non-quantifiable benefits to the
Project, the economic rate of return is not considered the primary
justification for the investments proposed under the Project, which are
principally aimed at providing support to the formulation and
implementation of a sound afforestation policy for the country.
Nevertheless, an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) based on the net incremental
benefits of the Project's commercial plantations investments has been
calculated for both pine and eucalyptus plantations together and is
estimated at 24%. The economic life of the Project is assumed to be 32
years because plantations would be clearfelled by then. The overall ERR
analysis includes all expenditures for direct capital investments,



- 49 -
replacements, operation and maintenance costs related to the commercial
plantations plus 65% of Project administration costs. Labor has been
shadow-priced at 75% of the present daily rate (BuF 100), because of
relatively large unemployment of available labor on area farms. A 20%
premium has been added to the value of foreign exchange to reflect its
scarcity value. Costs include estimated average physical contingency of
10, but do not include price contingencies, taxes or duties. Sensitivity
analysis on the rate of return shows that if costs were increased by 10%
the rate of return would be reduced to 23%. If yields were reduced by 10%,
the rate of return would be reduced to 22%. If benefits were to be delayed
by one year, the rate of return would be reduced to 21%. Other hypotheses
on the sensitivity analysis are shown in the implementation volume.
7.06      An ERR was also estimated separately at 18% for eucalyptus and
36% for pine plantations. The costs of the pilot components (agroforestry
research, support to livestock and agriculture) and of rural nurseries were
not included in the analysis.
(a)       The rate of return from the eucalyptus fuelwood plantation was
calculated on the basis of the plantation costs including all costs of
plantation development and maintenance. Production was valued at BuF 8,818
(US$73.5 equivalent) per m3 roundwood. It was assumed that the economic
value of wood utilized for urban consumption was equal to the equivalent
value of the principal alternative energy source available to the urban
poor, which is kerosene. It was assumed that one cubic meter of charcoal
would be equivalent to 2.3 m3 of eucalyptus, and that the alternative would
be use of about 260 litres of kerosene a year at BuF 78 (US$0.65 per
litre). Adjustments to take account of cutting costs, charcoal production
and marketing were made. The rate of return was also calculated using a
current market price for charcoal of about BuF21.4/kg (US$0.175),
equivalent to US$12.5 per m3 roundwood. The resulting rate of return would
be about 22%. The Project life for the eucalyptus plantation was assumed
to be 32 years. Separate cost and benefit streams are shown in Table 12
and 13, Annex 5.
(b)       The economic rate of return for the Pine plantations would be
about 36% over 24 years. All direct costs were included in t.e analysis.
The economic value of saw log production was assumed to be equivalent to
sawn timber imported from Zaire, adjusted to take account of logging,
transport, and milling costs. This value is appropriate since there is no
alternative source of timber to imports, and substitutes for timber which
might be used to meet Burundi's development needs are significantly more
costly (metal or fiberglass for example). This would imply an economic
value of standing timber of about US$250 per M3. If timber were valued at
US$300/m33, which may be considered a reasonable international cost, the
rate of return would be about 38%.
C. Risks and Uncertainty
7.07      The Project U`oes not involve unusual risks.  The principal
risk of the Project is that management performance could be lower than



- 50 -
expectec. resulting in a slowdown of the afforestation programs. The
principal financial risk is that of the market prices for commercial
plantations output to be insufficient to ensure full cost recovery, a major
objective of the forestry policy.
7.08      A long-term enterprise like forestry always runs agronomic and
catastrophic risks. Appropriate provision has been made for fire
prevention measures. The First Phase Project's experience does not
indicate any major soil problem, and none is expected under the proposed
Project. There is also a risk that Burundi will fail to exploit or control
the exploitation of the full annual harvestable growth of its plantations.
To address this problem the new monitoring and planning unit at the
Forestry Department would design adequate systems to ensure their optimal
use. Pressure to convert forest land to family farms is frequently cited
as a risk for Burundi forestry. To address this problem the proposed
Project has significantly decreased the surfaces proposed for commercial
plantations in the preparation report and increased the surface to be
planted at the farm level to lessen illegal cuts by farmers in ces-'ercial
plantations or in the natural forests. Further, the trees would not be
planted in areas where a potential for cultivation exists.
VIII. Agreements Reached
8.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the following
subjects:
(a) discussions on implementation of forestry policy measures and
annual review of proposed forestry investments (para 2.18);
Cb) terms and conditions of technical assistance for the Project
agroforestry research (para 3.06)
Cc) annual budgetary allocations to the Project Account (para
319);
Cd) procurement arrangements (paras 3.20 and 3.21);
Ce) disbursement arrangements (para 3.22);
-f) for each Project year, the Project accounts have been audited
by an independent audittr acceptable to IDA (para 3.25);
(g) reporting requirements, including the setting up of a more
elaborate monitoring system and the preparation of a
completion report by the Forestry Department for the First
Forestry Project as well as for the proposed Project (paras
3.25 and 4.11);
(h) before the creation of new nursories, a survey would be
carried out by the project unit to determine the optimal
location of each nursery (para 4.02);
(i) schedule and management arrangements for exploitation of the
Phase I plantations (para 4.03);
(j) transfer of responsibilities to the Burundese counterpart
staff and training arrangements (para 4.06);
(k) arrangements for the annual work plan (paras 4.07-4.08);



- 51 -
(1) seedling prices to farmers would be Daintained at a level
high enough to cover at least half of their production costs
(pars 6.03);
(m) establishment of adequate stumpage rate mechanisms (para
6.03);
(n) pine timber stumpage rates would be determined at levels
expected to cover the Forestry Department's plantation
investment and maintenance costs (para 6.05); and
(o) marketing and pricing arrangements for the pine plantations
(para 6.06).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) a project revolving fund has been established with an
adequate balance (para 3.19);
(b) conditions precedent to the disbursement of a FAC grant have
been met (para 3.19);
(c) the following specialists have been appointed:
- one silviculturist as Project Director
one silviculturist to manage Phase I and Phase II
eucalyptus plantations;
- one silviculturist to manage the pine plantations
- one rural forestry specialist to manage the rural
nurseries and agro-forestry component;
8.03      Disbursement on the forestry and training components would be
conditional to the appointment of three forest agronomists (Al) and a
training specialist, respectively.
May 17, 1985



-52 -
Taw  1
IE40    IX
85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 89/90  Tbtal   %      Amnt
I. Iuvestzimt Costs
a. eqepzijurt              145.5 -63.4  79.9  77.7  49.8  416.3  74.1  308.7
b. tecbmical assistbaoe     51.7  51.7  51.7  51.7  51.7  258.4  94.8  245.0
c. civil. uod               57.3  30.8  13.5  1.7   1.7  105.1  49.2   51.7
d. salarles                 32.1  35.4  39.4  41.1  43.5  191.6   0.0    0.0
e. labor                    67.8  80.8 101.7  91.0  94.1  435.4   0.0    0.0
f. training, stuxies
and trAlas               23.0  22.3  14.2  17.7  8.4   85.6  91.5   78.3
Total Investn1ot Costs     359.4  84.4 300.4 281.0 284.2 1,492.4  44.0  683.7
II. Ortional, Cbst              9.4  12.8  15.8  17.2  17.5   72.7  57.5   41.8
Total BasEfine Costs       368.8 297.2 316.2 298.2 266.7 1,565.1  46.4  725.5
Physical CcntIezncIes       33.5  34.6  26.5  24.7  21.5  130.7  36.8   48.0
Price          s             9.7  32.6  71.0 102.3 129.9  345.5  30.6  105.6
Total Project CoEts        430.0 354.4 413.8 425.1 418.0 2,041.3  43.1  879.2
Foreipi Eobwi4             249.6 156.3 166.4 172.2 134.8  879.2
y 2, 1985



TABLE 2
BURUNDI
FORESTRY II
Government Cash Flow with Prolect
(BuF million, current prices until 1989 79;  constant prices thereafter)
Applicajon of Funds         _        __
Source of Funds                     Wroject e Expenditurea      Debt Service                                             Net
Project    a) External   Stumpage         Total              and Subsequent            to IDA;                Total            Net         Cash Flow
Year          Funds       rate  (1)    Sources              Opeating Costs        Prineipal,interest    App_ications    Cash Flow         Cumulative
1985/86        323.7                      323.7                   467.8                                      467.8          -144,1          -144,1
86/87        256.3                      256.3                   368.9                  2.4                 371.3          -115.0          -259.1
87/88        330,9                      330.9                   405.6                  4.4                 410.0          -127.1          -386.2
88/89        343.9                      343.9                   423.0                  6.5                 429.5          -133.6          -519.8
89/90        29'.5                      292.5                   420.0                 11.0                 431.0          -138.5          -658.3
90/91                                     -                      55.75                10.9                   66.65          -66.65        -724,95
91/92                                     -                       55.75               11,0                   66.66          -66.66        -791.61
92/93                                     -                      55.75                10.9                   66.65          -66.65        -858.26
93/94                                     -                      55.75                11.0                   66.66          -66.66        -924,92         1
94/95                      127.2        127.2                    55.75                10.9                   66.65          +60.55        -864.37        V
95/96                      167.9        167.9                    55,75                25,3                   80.66          +86.94        -777.43
96/97                      218.6        218.6                    55.75                25.0                   80.75         +137.85         -639.58
97/98                      218.6        218.6                    55.75                25,0                   80.66         +137.94         -501.64
98/99                      306.8        306.8                    55.75                24.8                   80.55         +226.25         -275.39
99/2000                      103.6        103.6                     55.75               24.8                   80.46          +23.14         -252.25
2000/01                      103.6        103.6                    55.75                24.6                   80.35          +23.25         -229.00
01/02                      103.6        103.6                    55.75                24.6                   80.26          +23,34         -205,66
02/03                      230.6        230.6                    55.75                24.4                   80.15        +150.45          - 55.21
03/04                      256.1        256.1                    51.65                24.4                   75.96         +180.14         +124.93
04/05                      203.2        203.2                    47.55                24.2                   71.75         +131.45         +256.38
05/06                      203.2        203.2                    43.45                52.8                   96.16        +107.04          +363.42
06/07                      203.2        203.2                    39.35                52.3                   91.65         +111.55         +474.97
07/08                        -            -                      35.25                52,1                   87.26          -87.26         +387.71
08/09                        -            -                      37.25                51.7                   88.95          -88.95         +298,76
09/10                        -            -                      32.75                51.5                   84.16          -84.16         +214.60
10/11                      487.3       487.3                     30.25                51.1                  81.35         +405.95          +620.55
11/12                      511.1       511.1                     26.75                50.9                  77.56         +433.54         +1054.09
12/13                     558.7        558.7                     25.25                50.5                  75.75         +482.95         +1537.04
13/14                      190.5        190.5                    22.25                50.3                  72.46         +118.04         +1655.08
14/15                      190.5       190.5                     19.25                49.9                  69.15         t121.35         +1776.43
15/16                       -            -                       17.50                49.7                  67.11          -67.11         +1709.32
16/17                       -             -                      15.00                49.3                  b4.3           -64.301        +1645.02
17/18                       _            _                        12.010              49.1                   61.1            -611         +1583.92
I8/19                     119.1        Il'J. I                     h .0               48.7                   5h.7          +62.4          +1646,32
19/20                     142.9        142.'                       4.0                4b*5                   52d           +,).4          +1736.72
(1) Smallwood: BuF 700/On3; saw logs: BuF 4000u30
Eucalyptus: BuF 1800/0 (BuF 3000/m3 for poles; BuF 535/m3 for fuelwood)
May 17, 1985



TABLE 3
Burundi Forestry II
Commercial Plantations
Economic Rate of Return
MSE(NT WUES OF MET STREAM  AT A DISCIT PAE OF13,52
B.1     IP   10 S UP 201  Ul S 502    DUN 1OS              202    PM  50S  LA  I YEA 2   2 IE J YEMSLA3YEAS
Cli             1,12.3    14305.4    1,48.6    2,038.0           939.2       756.0      206,6       904,5       712.5      543.4
UP 102          1051.4    1,234.5    1,4177        1967.!        868,2       685.1      135.7        3336       641.6       472.5
UtP 201           930.5    1,163.6    1,346,3      1,696.2       797,3       6142        64.68      76246       S707        01.6
ti 502            767.7       950.9    1,134.0    1,683,4        584.6       401.4     *148.0       549,9       358.0       188.9
WA  10          1,193.2     11376,4     1,559.5    2,106.9    1,010.1        3269       277.5       975.4       7835       614.4
onl 20S         1.264.1     1447.3    1,630.4    2,1W9.8   J1I,O             897,       34U.4    1,046.3         4.4       685.3
WmiI 502        1,47.9    1,660.0    I,343.2       2,392       1,293.7     1llO.        561.1    2,259.0    1,067.1        880
LAB 1 YEAR                                               -           -                      -       91.9        796        627,98
LO11 2   9            -           -           -          -           -           -          -           -       971.2       702.1
LAO 3  ARS                                    -          -           -           -          -                               7676
INTER. RATIO W KM  OF NET IT1M
3.1     UP 10       UP 20S      LP 0S         I01W   WA   M        A20S    0   LBI50    1EARL    2UYES LAB 3 YEARS
Ct.              23.650      24,919     25.913      29,840      22,3        21.028     15.995      21.366      19,532      11.020
Ut l0t           22,511      23.650     24.716      27,569      212M        1956       15.047      20.377      18,656     17,231
UP 202           21.496      22609      23.650      26.435      20.300      19001      14M200      1493        17971      16.523
UP 50            19,001      20.049     214029      23,650      17M574      16.650     12.107      17.30       15.917      14,754
NE 102           24.941      26,147     27,273      30.295      23.60      22246      17.070      22,46       20,M        18to7
DM  202          26435       27,678     28.40       31.H49      25.0W       23,650     18.307      23.77       21,652      19,919
NU  50S          32,812      34,269     35,604      39,111      31,366      29720      23,650      29,261      26S445     24.179
LM  I EA              -           -          -           -           -           -          -      23.650      21.346      19.532
LAO 2 YEAR            -                                                          -                      -      23650      21.36
LAO 3 Y-                          -          -           -           -           -          -           -           -      23.650
Interml Rates of hrWm  ft Not trom
me                     23.652
1      2       3       4       5      6       7       6   9-10       11  12-15      16      17  19-20       21      22     23      24  25-27       29      29     30      31      32
3.1       -       -       -       -       -      - 192,00 243.90  320,70  968,70  66150  853.50  230,40  307.20         - 2785,60 2921.50 29350  288.00  130,10  216.00  288900 236.00  289900
C.1  237.90  158.70  283,20  19.tO  150W20   18.0E O 13.60    19.80   38.90  19.60   19.90  150 180 90 133    183.0   17M00   15.1O   1320   13.20   11,30   9M00    6900   30                -
ND  -237.90 -158,70 -103,20 -169.90 -150,20  -189,0  173,20  225.lO  301.90  949.90  642.70  834,70  211,60 298,40  -18.90 2768,60 2906,40 2810.30 274.60  168.60 207.00 292.00 2M5.00 288.00
Dcwnt 5, 1914  11127



..g     ptg a         ,gyyl    FInnmcial Rate of Return
11MA =1 NO C1
W    IO       $W   la           11 91.m    i993   94 aW l-a   l   ,9-W    2W              361136  NSU-m7    614   SW    3104  23t   at 313-3m             3       m         21 9 W      3
- rm
N             -      -      -             -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- W6.   544    16.7  31.7  MS,  I36.9  174.3    33.3    3.3 30 .7    3.1   Mo9.   WA9.            *    114   Vol  1396  3MA.   MA
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
- a-.,  tU.4   1                                                           4.  NO2      U.7 . 7        7 .l      l.SN   174..X J .t      .   3.0   WJ   3. 21.1           5 .4     7      No@    14    3.    4,   MA
810                        LA.!  83.4 1    3.91Me   l 9o.   3.3   3.9   3.0                3.. 3              no    NO        nO        W.0   3.0   3.6   3,1   Mel  17.1    11.3    34    14    0.0   4.0
Tue.,        R E     51 5423  1AUI4 -11 X -No.  -M.    *-no    U6.4   o.t    5J7  3.7                  41   521,9  14.2   113.3    4.0   166.   31.7   W6   Met  112.3l   317.1    4.4   O.M  W8.   1.6   MA.*



- 56 -                     Schedule 1
Burundi
Second Forestry Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                    Cumulative Disbursement
Quarter                                            at Quarter End (US$000)
1985-86
December 31, 1985 a/                                    50
March 31, 1986                                         100
June 30, 1986                                          200
1986-87
September 30, 1986                                     650
December 31, 1986                                    1,100
Marc'h 31, 1987                                      1,550
June 30, 1987                                        2,000
1987-88
September 30, 1987                                   2,400
December 31, 1987                                    2,800
March 31, 1988                                       3,300
June 30, 1988                                        3,800
1988-89
September 30, 1988                                   4,400
December 31, 1988                                    5,000
March 31, 1989                                       5,600
June 30, 1989                                        6,600
1989-90
September 30, 1989                                   7,400
December 31, 1989                                    8,200
March 31, 1990                                       9,100
June 30, 1990                                       10,000
1990-1991
September 30, 1990 b/                               10,600
December 31, 1990                                   11,100
March 31, 1991                                      11,600
June 30, 1991                                       12,000
1991-92
September 30, 1991 c/                               12,800
a! Expected date of effectiveness: September 30, 1985
b/ Expected date of completion   : June 30, 1990
cf Expected closing date             September 30, 1991
May 17, 1985



- 57 -
Annex I
Table 1
BURUNDI FORESTrY II
Comercial and Communal Plantations (ha)
Actual Ares Planted an             Planned from                  Total
of Hay 31. 1984                1985 to 1990
timber  fuelvood   protection    timber  fuelwood  protection  actual & planned
!. Coercial Plantations:
a.  Projects financed:
Rgazgl (EEC)                         2,802        91         45          -           -         -            2.938
lugamba (But) -10.000 ha'
Belgium                           1,671        -       5,302        1,000         -       2,027         10.000
nugamba (Belgium) "2.000 ha'           263         78     1.608           -          -         -            1,949
Hageyo (IDA)                            50        350       -            -           -         -              400
Vyanda (IDA)                         3,250        -         _          1,000         -         -            4.250
Gakara (IDA)                           -        1,355       -            -          S00        -            2,055
Vugito (IDA)                                                             500                   500
BE. Ryarusera                          -           -        -            -          150        -              150
Klbira (CCCE)                          510         15       120           550        50        450          1,695
Kuranvya (IL0)                         -           -      1,250          -           -         -            1,250
Ruyigi (IL0)                           -                                             -       7,500          7.500
Bukirasazi                             -                                 -        4,480      1,120          5.600
tosso                                  -          -         -          1,125        625        750         2500
Kayungozi                              -          -         -            240         -       2,160          2,400
Ny muirwa                              -          _         _          2.600        400        -            3,000
Nabanda (IDA)                                                                     2,500                     2,500
Bukinanyana (IDA)                        _                                  _       500
8,546      1,869
b.  State financed
4,400     5.600       -           3,000        -        1,000        14,000
2.  Comunal Plantations                         120    11.880       -           1,000     2,000        -           15,000
Total           13.066    19,369    8i325         11.015    t; 205     15.007         77,987
Total Actual:                       40,760        Total Projected:     37,227
Source: Forestry Department, Schema directeur de dEveloppement du aecteur for&t
December 4, 1984



Table 2
CQmmetlal Planttions: x,eeted Aual Yield tru Kxletimu and planned Plaattioa
1.  l.tintg Pla1 atiote                        Productive    Men  Aul                produetion (.3)
Area      Ircremnt (HUl)    Timber  7_IeD u     Totrl
_________  3/e  (702)    (30C=
1.1 ExletUn  State Pia ttio.a Cat 5/31184)
a. Project:
- Etqal Ci(m                           2,242           10             15,694    6.726
Clclaelytus                      64           12              -         766
(Callitria                     Pt             PR              -         -        -
- tUG  10000' (ne                      1,170           10              8.190    3.510    11.700
WAC.        (Call.                   fR              f                -        -        -
- NBC '2000' Ci..                        210           10              1.470     630     2.100
(laclyt.                     62           12              -         744       744
(Call.                     a              f               -         -        -
-  asego (wuAlyptue                      280           12               -       3.360    3.360
Opite                          13R      n                     -         -        -
- vyand  (IPie                         2.275           10             15.925   6.825    22.750
- Cekara   ucalyptue                   1.084           15               -      16.260    16.260
-  lblra (14C4                           357           10              2.499    1.071    3.570
Ctucalyptue                      12           15              -         IO0      Io
(Call.                         f              f               -         -        -
- Hurmwya (Coal.                        ftf                             -        -        -
Sub-totml A)         7.899                          43.778   60,074   83.354
b) Otber State PlOtatlOeD (P401Cr          2.300           10             19.600    D.40    23.000
(.calymus       2.200           10            163.000  22.00       .000
Total State PLatatins (rouded) a + b    12.900                           163.000   71.000   134.000
1.2 Ca_t.al PLIetatio.a (tleCCr                   48           10               264      144       460
(ltucmlptci           4.750           10                     47.520   47.520
Total State Communal PlaDt-ti             17.700                         64.000  118.000   182.000
U1.  Plmead Plantatilo
2.1 State nentatios.
c. Projects
- O.3. -1 0W- (Plne                      70           10             4.900    2.100    7.000
(Coll.                  n             PR              -        -        -
-VyaDa (PIne                             700          10             4.900    2.100    7.000
- Cakara (Euclyptu                       200          15             -       6.000    6.000
- Ryarnera (Zucalyptus                   150          15              -       1.800    1.800
- Klblra (P40                            385          10             2.69S    1.155    3.850
(Mucalyptow                      40          15             -          60        60
(Call.                         n             PR             -         -        -
-  ayJigi (Kucalyptue                    300          15              -      4.,50     4.500
(Call.                         PR            PR             -         -        -
- Deklraaazi Cmealyptu_                3.584          10              -      35.840    35.40
(Cel1.                     PR            PR             -         -        -
- MD o (ie                               900          10             6.300    2.700    9.000
(Eualyptus                       SDO          12             -       6.000     6.000
(Cell.                          PR            PR             -         -        -
- Kaygoalz (Pin                          192          10             1.34      576    1920
(Call.                      Fit           f              -         -        -
-N. Mmirwa (PInR                       2.060          10            14,560    6.260    20.800
(ocalyptum                  280          15             -       4.200    4.20
- Veto                                  6W            15             6.000             6.000
- Mabada                                 4w00         15                     6.000     6.000
-SDokDm7yma                            2.000          15                     30.000   30.000
SoDa-total C)   9.9 14*0.699   0 9.27                          149.970
d. Otber State Pimiatlons
#c44Cr                              2.400          10            16.800    7.200   24.000
Call.                               fR             PR              -        -        -
2.2 CDommnal plantations
P*C4.                                    700          10            4.900    2,100     7.000
Euealyptus                             1.400          15             -      21.000   21.000
Total I                              14441                         62.000  149,000  212.000
111. Total Slting. + Planned
n1ub                                 32.140                       126.000 267.000  393.000
L1W                                  25.000                        92.000  168.000  260.000
PA - Protectian
P * Plna
C - Callitria
C -re rllsa
Source: Fbrestry Departmnt
Dember A. 1984



- 59-                                        ___1
Table 3
Bw,udi Forestry II
Gavec~t Btger AlUocacions 1977-1984
1977     1978       1979     1980       1981      1982      1983   1984
TocaL                         5.0       6.2       9.1      10.0      10.8     12.6      13.5      16.2
Agrlcutwe and lvestock        0.18      0.23      0.35      0.41      0.44     0.54      0.5       0.52
Un~L1ary Bu4gem
TtaL                          2.0       3.3       3.6       4.0      4.6       4.0       3.3       3.0
Apultowe and livestock       -         0.64      0.69      0.58      0.67     0.58      0.48      0.54
Total B3ulger                   7.0       9.5      12.7      14.0     15.4      16.6      16.5      19.2
API tu1czre and livestodc     0.18      0.87      1.(%      0.99      1.11     1.12      0.98      1.06
erm                             3         9%        8%        7%       7%        7%        6Z        6%
S,arc: Ministries of Piace and PIn"g
May 17, 1985



Annex 2
-*60 -
BURUNDI - FORESTRY II
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Document
A.  Sector/Sub-sector Reports and Studies                           No.
LEJEUNE - 'Assistance au D4partment des Eaux et
Forets pour l'amflioration des methodes des
carbonisation/, PNUD, Rome, avril 1984.                        109.742 Al
C.T.F.T. - /Etude de projets forestiers, assistance
technique aupres du department des eaux et Forets;
novembre 1984, F.E.D.                                          109.742 A2
FAO/PNUD: Document de projet de formation des
Techniciens des Eaux et Forets.                                109.742 A3
Mission d'indentification d'un projet de
diveloppement rural integre (commune
d'Isale-Mugaruro, septembre 1981.                              109.742 Ah
Schema Directeur de Developpement des Secteur
Foret, juille 1984.                                            109.742 A5
Reunion de consultation sur le Burundi,
Nations-unies 1981.                                        21007 (BU/120)
B. Project - Related Reports and Studies
Rapport de preparation du deuxiame projet forestier
FAO/CP, 3 volumes, 21 mai 1984.                                109.742 B1
AFVP: (Betty Wampfler, VP): Rapport de mission a
Vyanda mai 1984.                                               109.742 B2
Mision Forestiere Crete Nil. Essais Syvicoles;
Mesures 1983.                                                  109.742 B3
Compte-Rendu de l'Enquace aupras des Eleveurs ec
agriculteurs de la zone de Vyanda (F. Luthereau,
V.P.), avril-novembre 1983.                                    109.742 B4
Socio-ecological Survey of the Burundi Forest
Project Areas'.  A.W. Weber and A. Vedder for INCN,
USAID, October 1983.                                           109.742 B5



- 61 -
Document
C.  Implementation Volume                                           No.
Annex I - The Forestry Component                           109.742-T Cl
Annex 2 - The Agroforestry                                 109.742-T C2
Annex 3 - The Agricultural Component                       109.742-T C3
Annex 4 - The Livestock Component                          109.742-T C4
Annex 5 - Economic Price of Woods                          109.742-T C5
Annex 6 - Annual Plan Outline                              109.742-T C6



-62-                                                         Chart I
_URUNDI
FORESTRY It
!npleentation Schedule
Project Year                       Pre-Projert  P_         1         PT 2          PT 3           PY 4          PY 5
Fiscal Year                                           85/86          86/87        87188         88/89          89/90
Quarter                               3   4        1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1:  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4
1.  IDA,
1.1 Negotiations                           x
1.2 Board Presentatton                                                                                            June 30
1.3 Date Effectiveness                                                                                            J 1990   x
1.4 Completion                                                                                                              x
1.5 Closing Date                                                                                                        Sept. 30
199I
2.  Project Implementation
2. 1 Stumpage Rates Increases
(fuelwood sawlog)
2.2 Seedling Prices Increases
2.3 Finalization of all
Planting Sites. and of
Forestry Policy Document            ___
2.4 Staff Appointments
Expatriate:
Project Manager                               x
Sylviculturist (pine)                         x
(eucalyptus)                    x
(agroforescry)                   x
Local:
Forest Agronomists (Al)                       _      3
Assistant Foresters (A2)                            10
Training Specialist                               L
Zootechnician                                     I
Agronomtst                                        I
2.5 Work Programs and Budgets:
Submitted to Bank                                  x             x        x                   x
2.6 Reports:
annual                                                xx                           x Kt                         x
completion                                                                                                              x
2.7 Procurement Vehicles,                                                                                                 Dec 1991
Katerial, and Equipment                          - -36Z           2         132 ---I22------ ----1332 ----- 161---- ------23Z---
2.8 Civil Works:  Offices
art Stores                                      -----522---  ---3320------ __---- ---    ----          --0.5X----
1.9 Road Tracks (ki):
- roads                                         -----10----- ---11------- ----13-----             ------ ------
tracks                                         ----30----- ___33_______ ----39-       - ----24----- -          24----
2.10 Plantations
establishment    (ha)                         --500+500--- -600+500---- -800.500---- ---800----- ----800----
maintenance & -roteccion:
phase I                                       --6.150---- --6.1501----- --  l50---- --6.150----- --6,150----
phase II                                                     --1.000----- --2,100----- --3.400----- --4.200-----
2.11 Agroforestry:
number of new nurseries                       ------5----- -----5------ -----5 --                     - 5------ -----5-----
area planted:
demonstration (ha)                          ----3503----- ---23754----- ----000----- ----425----- ---450---
private (ha)                                --1150----  -250------ --1,350----- --,450---- --.550-----
2.12 Consultancies (man-monch)
agroforestry                                  ------6----- -----3        -,-: ------2----- ------2----- ------2-----
livestock                                     ------4----- -----2----        ------2-----------2-----
agriculture                                   ------2----- -----2---- ------2----- ------      22----- ------2-
2.13 Scholarships:
forestry (2 years each)                                       (       s4 man-years)-------  (----.A man-year)-----
charcoal makers (courses:                     ------1 ----- -----                 1
agruforestrv (courses/                        ----I-- 1          1- I1
2.14 Audit 
may 17. 1985



BURUNDI
FORESTRY II PROJECT
Hinistry of Ariculture and Livestock
I         --_~~~~~~~~~~~H nlttsrte-
arastatalsl                  Director of                     Dji7rector ot 1                     Director of                      Regional
Agriculture                        Livestock                       Agricultural                     Development
Planning                       Companiea
ISABU       (Researclk)             Departments:                       Departmental                       Saricess
OCilU       (Coffee)                                                             _ _
OTH         (Tea)                    ALrommaoy                            Animal                         Planning and              Imbo
ONASII      (Sugar)                                                      Production                        Surveys                 BuynaLI
ONAHA       (Equlpmsent)                                                                                                           Kirimiro
CO(ERCO                                  _                                                                                         Rumonge
v1  Works                       _ _ _  _osso-Sud
_ _ _ _ __ _             Animal                         Nonitoring 6
_ ___ _ _jtlleattl                                                 EvaluatLon
Veterinary                     Agricultural
Labs                         Evaluation
Rural I
Development
Agra-pastoralz
-  Information 



- 64 -
Chart 2-b
BURUNDI FORESTRY II
THE FORESTRY DEPARTMENT
(Present Organization)
|Director
|Forestry Sub-Directo {
Forestry
Sub-Director
,-oetry I      Other donor                             _
roect   I        financed l
~~ - | ~projectsl
General Services
Accountant,
I Administration



2zra                                                                 '                                3a      ,=
BURUNDI
,'W                        SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
Phposd hmm N Fniaiaag (198-1
Eil    &.*aIyia
EgP01B FM"
E1n          Plattin 190-19853
<i)~~oms otnpe          -                 R  W   A  N  D A
FIt, I     . d tbspeode             '7.
Fie kisp.ctorciu flaWoindns
*    r                                                  -, ,
o PWsinda Cufnts                   h
-KIRNDO,S,0    ---- ._:-_
Mai. Road&                    f-               '-
<  - -  -- Couue8adm              __J
; !-   _  Pmsrneimal < loundones 
- '\  'f6n               .     ;      R U  O.  s -
_t:-:UGNO   ' - - 'A:-$ 'I 4  ,
(''w;  S ,s  ,Y-                                ,                                               /'A   -    NO
< .                                                         If IU                                                   %lGA  7 ; - -G
/~~~~~~~- -S   -                                                BU4ZY ---   --
tu                                                                                                    -I
o:   I     \       ,-,UJ            UR ;                      LL _     --,  , , X          ___,A 
3er   {'   j      '. ~~_;_                 i                        __ 'A.r_
-                                                                     TANZNIA A   a
|  _  r1rJvm. .y X - - -~~v          -                   U                 -                               0-,3 i:  _
-5FAUSIG^^<TI          A-Z v t/ T                                   A                            LOMAN I 
o                                                                                                                          0~~~~~~~~~~~~~rG
-           -0\  \                                                    > r.ST .an 
*   255                                                                                            0 F A   y  .     UGANDA D
t N f ^  N          J                           J   , __  - ------    _
t______,,~~~~~~~~~~ i.                          I G 
\ r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I jt tAY,.C






