Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
F1LE DOpY
Report No. P-3742-HU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$110 MILLION
TO THE
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
March 1, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983        December 1983
Currency Unit   =        Forint (Ft)
USSI                     Ft  43               Ft 45
Ft l                     US$0.023             us$u.022
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSAR.Y OF ABBREVIATIONS
ERE             =        Economic rate of return
FRR             --       Financial rate of return
MDI                      Methyl diphenyl diisocyanate
MOI              =       Ministry of Industry
PVC              =       Poly vinyl chloride
NBh              =       National Bank of Hungary
NIB              =       Nordic Investment Bank
SDB             =        State Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
Guarantor:             Hungarian People's Republic
Amount:                US$110 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee
Terms:                 Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate
Onlending Terms:       US$109 million of the proposed loan would be onlent to
beneficiary enterprises for a maximum period of tup to 12
years inclusive of grace periods at an interest rate
equal to at least the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up which
includes a fee for the foreign exchange risk to be borne
by NBH.
Project
Description:           The main objectives of the project are to support the
Government's programs for industrial restructuring and
export expansion and to strengthen the development
banking role of the National Bank of Hungary. The
project consists of:  (a) a credit package which would
be onlent by NBH to finance the foreign exchange costs
of about 15 export-oriented and industrial restructuring
subprojects which have been identified and preappraised
by the Bank; (b) two credit lines to NBH, one for export
promotion and the other for industrial restructuring to
help finance between 20 and 27 subprojects meeting
agreed eligibility criteria; and (c) expert and advisory
services required for carrying out three subsectoral
development strategy studies, the feasibility study of a
chemical project, and institutional strengthening of NBH.
Benefits to be derived from the project consist of
incremental annual sales of about $215 million of which
about $110 million would be in convertible currency
exports.  Net foreign exchange earnings would amount to
about $60 million per annum which, together with foreign
exchange savings of between $45-$75 million from
material-savings and suppliers ("background") industries
subprojects, would generate a positive impact of about
$105-$135 million per annum on Hungary's balance of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
trade. Important non-quantifiable benefits would also
be obtained from the institution-building component.
NBH's development banking capability would be
strengthened through the adoption of a comprehensive
system of project appraisal and supervision which should
result in improved investment decision making, thereby
furthering the structural adjustment objective of the
national economic reform. Subsector studies should
assist the authorities in formulating development
strategies for some of the key sectors of the economy on
the basis of independent review.
Project: Risks:        The main risks of the project are those associated with
the use of new concepts, approaches and operational
procedures for implementing subprojects by a new
borrower. These should, however, be minimized due to
the high quality of NBH staff and their achievements to
date with the satisfactory preparation of appraisal
reports for the credit package. Substantial monitoring
and supervision by the Bank are planned and these should
also help in keeping the risks low. No environmental
risks are expected for the credit package subprojects as
adequate safeguards acceptable to the Bank and the
Hungarian authorities have already been built into their
designs. For the credit line subprojects, appropriate
safeguards will be ensured as part of NBH's subproject
appraisal procedures.
Estimated Costs:                          -----US$ million equivalent------
Local        Foreign          Total
Credit package base cost             18.25           28.00          46.25
Physical contingencies                 1.80           1.30           3.10
Price contingencies                    2.90           4.10           7.00
Installed cost                    22.95          33.40          56.35
Duties/taxes, interest
during construction                15.90             -            15.90
Incremental working capital           2.25           4.60            6.85
Credit package total cost            41.10           38.00          79.10
Credit lines                        106.00           71.00         177.00
Studies and institution-
building                            0.68           0.72            1.40
Front-end fee                       -           _ 0.28            0.28
Total financing required    147.78  /1    110.00            257.78
/1 Including $18.5 million of indirect foreign exchange costs.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                     --- US$ million equivalent ---
Local      Foreign        Total
Project Beneficiaries                           65.68          -           65.68
NBH                                             82.10                      82.10
IBRD                                              -          110.00       110.00
Total                                   147.78         110.00      257.78
Estimated
Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year                     1985      1986     1987      1988      1989
Annual                                 48        28        21       11         2
Cumulative                             48        76        97      108       110
Economic Rate of Return:    About 22%.
Appraisal Report:             No. 4803-HU dated February 23, 1984.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL EXPORT AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the National Bank of Hungary (NBH) for the equivalent of US$110 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee of $0.28 million) to help finance a
project for industrial export and restructuring. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace at the standard variable interest
rate. About $38 million of the loan proceeds would be on-lent for 15
sub-projects already identified and preappraised by the Bank. About US$71
million would be for two lines of credit to NBH to help finance export
generating and industrial restructuring subprojects meeting agreed eligibility
criteria. Onlending terms would be for a maximum period of up to 12 years
inclusive of grace periods at ani interest rate equal to at least the Bank rate
plus a 30% mark-up which includes a fee for the foreign exchange risk to be
borne by NBH. About $0.17 million would be expended by NBH for consultant
services and training abroad of its staff. The balance of $0.55 million to
cover the foreign exchange costs of studies included in the project would be
passed on to the Government which would reimburse NBH for all charges and
repayments to the Bank for this portion of the loan. Cofinancing from
commercial lending institutions of between $200-$300 million is being sought
for this project, in conjunction with the Petroleum Project, also being
considered for Bank financing.
PART I:  THE ECONOMY
2.        Hungary joined the World Bank on July 7, 1982.  The first Economic
Report was issued to the Executive Directors on April 19, 1983 (Report No.
4174-HU). An economic mission visited Hungary in November 1983 and its
preliminary findings are included in this section. Country social and
economic data are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Situated in East Central Europe, the Hungarian People's Republic is
a small land-locked country with a population of 10.7 million in 1981,
covering an area of 93,000 sqwure km. Dissected by the Danube and bordered by
five countries (Austria to the West, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia to the
North and South, and Romania and the Soviet Union to the East) Hungary has
historically been a nexus of social, cultural, and trade linkages between East
and West Europe.  It is a country of relatively meagre natural resource
endowments, although it has significant bauxite deposits, brown coal, lignite
and some hydrocarbons, and advantageous conditions for some agricultural
products. It has a long history of industrialization in certain branches of
1/ Same as Part I of the President's Report for the Petroleum Project, also
to be considered by the Executive Directors on March 27, 1984.



- 2 -
industry (notably textiles and other light industries), which has been
extended in the decades since World War II to the heavy industry branches,
including chemicals, metallurgy and engineering. The country has a
homogeneous population with a single language. Being relatively small and
without major topographical diversity between regions, Hungary is not marked
with regional disparities in development. Incomes are also quite evenly
distributed as a matter of social policy, and most services are of a
moderately high standard. While on the whole the population enjoys a standard
of living higher than many countries in Eastern Europe, wage levels remain
low, the choice of consumer goods is relatively limited, and there are still
major deficiencies in housing and in access to potable water and sewerage
facilities, particularly in rural areas.
The Economic System
4.        The present economic system in Hungary combines state ownership and
central planning with significant enterprise autonomy over investment,
production and trade decisions. The system has evolved from the post-war
period when planning, as in otther Socialist countries in Eastern Europe, was
fully, centralized and based on physical targets and central administrative
directives. Planning remains a significant instrument in Hungary, and the
State uses the plan to set the framework for the economy. In the period since
1968, the year which marked the major break with the previous system, the
emphasis in reform has been twofold: on strengthening the influence of the
market on enterprise activities and on developing a system of "Economic
Regulators", through which the State maintains control of overall economic
activity. These regulators include credit control through the centralized
National Bank and the State Development Bank which are the only two sources of
credit for enterprises; price and wage regulation through centrally determined
formulae; and the regulation of the net surplus from production through a
series of fiscal measures and control over enterprise reserve funds.
Enterprises are free to make independent investment decisions, but large
investments for which credit is needed from the National Bank are subject to
the approval of the central authorities. The State itself has direct control
over ,zertain investments--State investments--generally in infrastructure and
large capital intensive plant, which are financed from budget sources through
the State Development Bank.
5.        The State-owned sector, comprising all enterprises, state farms and
agriculture cooperatives, accounts for some 90 percent of both investment and
outpul: in the economy. Private activity is evident in the so-called "second
econormy" in which individuals enter into production, trade and service
activities for their own benefit. The second economy is particularly
important in agriculture, where, for certain products, output from private
holdings is a large share of the total. In industry, also, there is an
increasing practice of workers in enterprises grouping together into "Contract
Work AIssociations" to utilize the industrial plant out of hours, for their own
benefit. These second economy activities are encouraged, as a means to raise
productivity, to increase capacity utilization and to enhance personal incomes.



- 3-
Structure of Economy and Long-term Trends
6.         The principal structural f eatures of Hungary's economy are: (a) a
relatively high share of industry (including construction) in GDP (42 percent
in 1983 with 39 percent of total employment), reflecting a more advanced
degree of industrialization compared to many developing countries; (b) a high
share of heavy industry in total industrial output (66 percent in 1983),
reflecting the emphasis on heavy industry common to many Socialist countries;
(c) compared to many developed countries, a relatively high share of the labor
force employed in agriculture (22 percent in 1983) implying that, in
principle, significant scope exists for productivity growth and further shifts
of labor out of this sector; (d) a high share of GDP entering into foreign
trade (about 40 percent). Hungary's high degree of trade dependence makes it
vulnerable to shifts in world trade and prices, and is a principal factor
underlying the reforms which aim at increasing the adaptability of the economy
to changes in world markets. Hungary imports nearly half of its total energy
consumption and a large proportion of its other inputs to industry. While
manufactures are important in total exports (64 percent in 1982) they are more
important in relation to exports to the CMEA countries; major shares of
exports to convertible currency markets are comprised of agricultural
commodities (about 32 percent in 1982) and raw materials (about 28 percent).
7.         Since 1970 GDP has grown in real terms by an average of 4.3 percent
per annum, led by industry (5.1 percent). Services and agriculture have grown
less rapidly at around 4.2 and 3.4 percent, respectively. The impact of these
growth trends on incomes and employment was influenced by Hungary's slow
population growth. The fact that Hungary has an almost stagnant population,
which grew by 0.28 percent per annum in the period 1970-83, implies that
growth in GDP has brought an almost equal growth in per capita income. This
has meant that in the past the State has been able to sustain a high
investment rate while still maintaining a significant real increase in
personal consumption, which grew by 4 percent per annum during the period.
However, wages remain low in Hungary, and in 1982 the average wage in
socialist industry was Fts. 4,512 (US$123) per month. Social benefits (in
consumer subsidies and services) represent, however, a significant part of
household incomes.
8.         Hungary's demographic structure has also implied a stagnant or
declining total labor force, which grew by less than 0.2% in the decade
1970-80, and which declined by some 80,000 in the three years 1980-83. As a
result the considerable economic growth that has taken place over the past
decade has brought virtually no growth in total employment.  In fact, total
employment declined by 116,000 jobs in the period 1975-83 despite a 28% growth
in GNP. This has led to a growing perception of a labor shortage in Hungary
which, though it may be more apparent than real at the aggregate level, has
also created pressure to economize on labor, to adopt modern techniques to
raise labor productivity, and to shift labor out of overmanned positions into
more efficient activities. Some of this is evident in the changing pattern of
employment over recent years. In the period 1975-83, for example, there were
net employment shifts out of agriculture (where a significant labor pool
remains) and less efficient industrial occupations in the urban centers, into
smaller scale, rural based industry and into the services sector.



- 4 -
9.        Sectoral productivity differentials are narrower in Hungary than in
many developing countries. However, these differentials have widened
significantly since 1978 as urban industrial production has continued to grow
while releasing labor to services and to rural occupations. In 1983 the
productivity in industry was greater than in agriculture by about one-quarter
and *by about one-third with respect to services.
Government Policies
10.       Given Hungary's income level, the lack: of marked regional
disparities, and the relatively equal distribution of income which its
policies have secured, issues of equity and poverty alleviation do not rank as
the first priorities of policy. While the raising of general living standards
is a major objective, the focus of policy is on the structural issues of
investment, growth, and efficiency. More recently, in response to growing
liquidity pressures in the convertible currency accounts, brought about by the
combined effects of Hungary's debt burden, its propensity to import and the
relative softening of world export markets, there has been a priority focus on
restoring the external balance. During 1982 the country faced both a
financial crisis, and a loss of confidence within the international banking
community, already made nervous by debt problems in other countries. In this
situation the Government secured the support of an IMF Standby Arrangement
(with an entitlement of $589 million) to restore its financial balances and
reconstitute its depleted reserves through a stabilization program even more
stringent than that in force before 1982. It also sought Bank support through
cofinancing as a means of bolstering confidence in Hungary in the capital
markets. While the country's 'Liquidity crisis eased somewhat in 1983 and
external confidence turned in the country's favor, the pressures continue and
a second Standby Arrangement (for $450 million) was concluded in January 1984
(see para. 18).
11.       The Government also recognizes the need to make longer run
structural adjustments, but can do so at present only inasmuch as present
financial constraints permit. These structural objectives include
institutional changes as well as changes in the structure of economic activity
to reflect changed conditions facing Hungary in world markets.  Of principal
imporl:ance here is the need to become more competitive in convertible currency
markets for manufactures, to increase the exportable surplus in agricultural
products, and to reduce imports of energy and raw, materials. While it is true
that in the past energy imports have been available at favorable prices from
CMEA countries (principally the Soviet Union), there are limits on the volume
of these imports (around the levels reached in 1981), and purchases above
these amounts are at higher prices and paid for in convertible currencies.
The growth of energy imports, therefore, will become an increasing hard
currenlcy drain. To raise the net convertible currency yield from production
and trade will require greater efficiency in production, improved product
quality and, in turn an upgrading of the country's productive technologies,
much of which are outdated and based on energy- and input-intensive
technologies.



12.       While the economic reforms are the centrepiece of the structural
adjustment program, the Government has also set in place certain measures to
directly influence the pattern of investment. These include the creation of
three priority lines of credit in the National Bank--for energy-saving,
material recycling, and export-oriented investments--and the adoption of
certain 'centralized development programs' in priority industries through
which the State coordinates and supports enterprise investments. Also, in the
general credit policy of the National Bank in force since the stabilization
program, investments are not favored unless they contribute to structural
adjustment goals. At present only smaller, quick-yielding projects in high
value-added activities are being approved.
Recent Economic Developments
13.       Hungary has been successful in surmounting its financial crisis of
1982. However, the difficult external liquidity situation is expected to
extend through 1984 and 1985 and, t:o a lesser degree, through the rest of the
decade. In 1983 it became evident that a renewed stabilization effort was
needed. Through severe credit restrictions and other measures, the Government
has successively reduced the investment share of GDP to about 27 percent in
1983. There is expected to be a further reduction in 1984. To do this the
authorities have put in place a series of measures to restrict the
availability of all enterprise own funds for investments. This includes a 25
percent tax on any investment started after June 1, 1982 which does not
generate convertible exports or material savings; and an expropriation of 6-9
percent of the enterprises' unused development funds on deposit in the
National Bank. In 1984, to further reduce investment buoyancy, the
authorities plan to expropriate the compulsory reserve and working capital
reserve funds of the enterprises. In addition, investment funded through the
State budget was reduced by suspending all new State investments.
14.       Correspondingly, growth has been sharply lower during the past
several years. Growth in the GDP for the period 1979-83 was only 1.9 percent
per annum compared to an average of 5.5 percent per annum in the previous five
years (both in real terms) and it was no longer possible to maintain the
steady growth of consumption to which the population had become accustomed.
In contrast to the 4.4 percent real growth over the 1974-78 period,
consumption grew by only 1.5 percent in the period 1979-83, and is likely to
be stagnant or declining in 1984.
Foreign Trade and Payments
15.       Through much of the last decade Hungary's foreign trade has shown
significant trade deficits in both convertible and non-convertible currency
accounts, and the country borrowed abroad to finance its high investments.
Since 1980, however, and with greater urgency since the financial crisis of
1982, Hungary has managed to achieve significant surpluses in the convertible
trade account. Thus, the peak convertible deficit of $784 million in 1978 was
transformed into a surplus of $882 million by the end of 1983. These results
were achieved partly through reductions in imports and partly through
expansion of exports.  A significant share of these exports (almost one
quarter in 1982) was accounted for by the Socialist countries, paid for in
convertible currencies--but success in these markets in the short run may not
be a sound indicator of Hungary's longer run competitiveness in convertible
currency markets at large.



-6-
External Debt
16.       Debt outstanding in convertible currency has been reduced sharply
from its peak of $9.1 billion at the end of 1980 to $7.4 billion in September
1983. The major cut was in 1982, following the repayment--largely from
reserves--of $1.3 billion which fell due in early 1982 and which the banks
were not prepared to renew. Of the convertible currency debt outstanding in
September 1983, only 17 percent was in short-term paper compared with 37
percent at the end of 1980.  The level of mediun- and long-term debt has been
held stable for the past three years as Hungary has managed to maintain some
access to commercial markets. Debt in non-convertible currencies has risen
steeply, from $0.5 billion in 1977 to $1.6 billion in 1983 (September);
however, repayments are modest due to the very low interest rates and long
matu;rities of this debt. In 1983 the debt service ratio of all medium- and
long-term debt to all export earnings was about 19 percent. In terms of
convertible currency debt service measured against convertible export
earnings, the ratio was about 35 percent.
Medium Term Outlook
17.       Hungary's stabilization efforts will require the continuation of
stringent demand policies throughout 1984 and 1985. Restriction of domestic
demand and difficult conditions for exports to the EEC and some of the oil
exporting countries will result in GDP growth of less than 2 percent for
1984-85. The country's debt o'bligations will remain a severe drain on foreign
currency earnings for the next two years, and external credit over this period
may continue to be relatively restricted. In su'bsequent years, assuming the
stabilization program has successfully restored the external balance, and
assuming a more substantial availability of external credit, growth may be
expected to follow world market recovery. By this time the impact of the
country's restructuring programs on industry and agriculture may be evident in
significant increases in exportable products, while the import savings program
in energy would add yet further to foreign currency resources.  Nevertheless,
given the uncertain external situation, a relatively modest GDP growth rate of
3 percent is projected for the second half of the decade, and a slightly
higher growth for industry, the economy's leading sector.
External Capital Requirements
18.       Hungary's immediate financial goals are to reconstitute its
reserves, reduce its outstanding debt and lengthen its term structure, and
rebuild external confidence in the economy. Given the high level of medium-
and long-term debt service in convertible currency ($1.8 billion in 1983) and
the low level of gross international reserves ($745 million in September 1983,
less t:han two months' imports of goods and services), the achievement of these
goals require continued borrowing from abroad, even allowing for the low GDP
growth rates and the trade surpluses expected under the stabilization program
over the next few years. In the 1984-85 period the debt service burden on
medium- and long-term borrowings is expected to rise to around $2.2 billion
(about 38 percent of convertible exports of goods and services) so that, even
with continuing modest growth of aggregate demand, an anticipated increase in
imports of only 1 percent per annum and a continued growth of exports at no
less than 4 percent per annum, gross borrowing requirements will increase to



about $1.2 billion per year. Bank and Fund membership will provide some of
these capital needs--the second IMF Standby Arrangement will provide Hungary
with a financing of $450 million- and the commercial markets will be
approached for the balance. Once the 1984-85 hurdle is surmounted, the
situation during the second half of the decade should be less critical, but
debt-service on convertible currency debt will remain high, averaging about 27
percent of convertible currency exports of goods and services.
19.       Although the non-convertible balance of payments has traditionally
been in deficit, debt service is small (4 percent), due to the concessionary
interest rates obtained on loans from the Socialist countries.  During the
second half of the decade gross borrowing requirements (about $200 million per
year) will be below amortization levels, in line with the Government's current
policy of gradually reducing borrowings in non-convertible currency through
reductions in the trade deficit. ]:n the mid-80s, the total medium- and
long-term debt in non-convertible currency is projected to stay at the 1983
level of $1.6 billion, but fall to about $1.0 billion by the end of the decade.
Creditworthiness
20.       Hungarian authorities are committed to pursuing a strict economic
stabilization program through 1984, in line with the objectives of the second
IMF Standby Arrangement. However, a solid recovery of Hungary's economy not
only hinges on the favorable outcome of the stabilization program but on the
success of structural transformation policies. In 1983, steps were taken to
link performance and rewards more closely in the system of wage regulation,
and to increase the effectiveness of the competitive pricing system set up in
1980. More significantly, a comprehensive reform package was prepared and is
now being put into place. Its declared objective is to increase the role of
market forces in the economy within the framework of state ownership and
central planning. Specific proposals focus on three major areas of reform:
price/wages, enterprise autonomy, and financial intermediation - all oriented
toward increasing the efficiency of the country's productive sectors and
making them more competitive in world markets.
21.       In early 1984, the country is in a more favorable liquidity
situation than it was two years ago; continued tight demand policies, coupled
with strong IMF backing, provide reasonable assurance that the economy will
remain solvent in the short term. The prospects for economic recovery in the
medium- and long-term appear promising in light of the country's commitment to
a sound structural adjustment program. In view of the country's record, its
effective management system, and its general prospects for achieving an
external balance in the mid-80s and for re-establishing a moderate rate of
growth, Hungary is considered creditworthy for Bank lending.
1/ A 12-month IMF Standby Arrangement for an amount equivalent to SDR425
($450 million) was approved by the Board on January 13, 1984. Under this
program, purchases are expected to be made in four installments, all in
1984.



- 8 -
PART II:  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HUNGARY 1,-
22.       The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Hungary to
$388.2 million for five loans (including two 'B' loan participations in
commercial cofinancing syndications) for projects in industry and
agriculture.
23.       Given the country's per capita income, the Bank's lending to Hungary
for the next few years will be limited in time and in amount. The Hungarian
Government has asked the Bank to focus its attention on structural adjustment
in the productive sectors: agriculture, industry, energy and related
transport. Bank assistance would generally aim at strengthening the thrust of
the adjustment process; export generation; import substitution, particularly
in the energy sector, through increased domestic production and conservation;
plant upgrading and technology transfer, to reduce production costs through
more efficient input utilization, and to improve productivity and product
quality; and industrial restructuring to reduce the concentration of
enterprise activities and encourage more efficient industries to produce
components.
24.       The Hungarians are also looking to the Bank to assist them in
expanding their access to external capital markets. In this respect, the Bank
was at successful catalyst in mobilizing two commercial cofinancing
syndications, a 200 million Eurodollar loan and a $70 million equivalent
Japanese Yen loan for the first two Bank-assisted projects. The Bank
participated in both these syndications with 'B' loans of $30 million and
$8.8 million equivalent, respectively, and was able to introduce Hungary to
commercial banks which had not previously been engaged in Hungarian offerings,
thereby obtaining external funds additional to those from Hungary's
traditional sources. The Hungarian authorities have also requested the Bank
to help them secure cofinancing for the proposed project utilizing the 'B'
loan type instruments.
25.       The Bank expects to continue to provide! technical assistance in
project preparation and design, and in institution-building. Planned economic
and sector work covers energy, industry and foreign trade, and a review of the
investment plan. The Bank has already reviewed the coal and power subsectors
and a report is now being prepared. These sector studies would provide
valuable policy inputs for the Bank's dialogue with the Hungarian authorities
and come at a time when further reforms are being introduced to increase the
impact of market forces and to increase enterprise autonomy. Discussions have
alreadly been initiated in this respect. Under the first two projects, the
Bank drew the Hungarian authorities' attention to the drawbacks of using
interest rebates as an incentive system. Subsequent discussions were pursued,
both in the course of preparing the proposed project and in general
operational discussions, and now the authorities have eliminated the system of
interest rebates starting January 1, 1984. Training through EDI is being
undertaken with a first course on the financial and economic evaluation of
projects held in early January 1984 in Budapest. Two procurement seminars and
a seminar on grain inflow-outflow analysis to determine storage requirements
have also been held in Budapest; all were well-received.
I/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Petroleum Project, also to be considered by the Executive Directors on
March 27, 1984.



- 9 -
26.       The loans in the pipeline represent only a small portion of
Hungary's total need for external financing and of its total (disbursed)
convertible currency debt. However, they provide a substantial net addition
to the flow of convertible currency available on longer repayment terms. The
disbursed debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 147% of
Hungary's total projected convertible debt in FY90, and the Bank's share in
Hungary's debt service payment is projected to rise to about 5% by that time.
27.       Hungary is not yet a member of IFC or IDA but the country is
interested in joining and discussions are underway.
PART III. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Structure and Performance
28.       The development of the industrial sector has been the principal
driving force in the transformation of Hungary from a largely agrarian society
to a relatively modern economy in a space of three decades. Industrialization
in Hungary has relied heavily on imuported raw materials as the country has few
natural resources; these are limited to small reserves of iron ore, petroleum
and natural gas, and large deposits of low grade bauxite and coal. Industry
generates about 40% of GDP, provides over one-third of total employment and
total gross capital formation, and accounts for almost 75% of the country's
exports. Half of industrial exports are sold in convertible currencies. The
sector is composed essentially of 725 state enterprises and 635 cooperatives;
the latter represent 6% of industrial output and 14% of industrial employment.
29.       Industrial development in the initial phase (1948-1967) was marked
by rapid growth (about 7% per annum in real terms) and was driven by the
desire to attain early self-sufficiency. Priority in resource allocation was,
therefore, given to heavy industry (essentially steel, chemicals and cement).
However, as a result of constraints on capital and labor availability which
emerged in the late 1960s, the Government shifted in 1968 to a new industrial
policy emphasizing increased productivity and efficiency. This is gradually
changing the industrial structure. While heavy industry has maintained its
dominance, a significant expansion has taken place in higher technology
industries such as pharmaceuticals, telecommunications and electronic
equipment, and electrical engineering. The large investments made in some
heavy industries, particularly metallurgy, and petrochemicals, have not
produced the expected benefits, due mainly to adverse price and market
conditions.  Gross industrial production grew at 6.4% per year between
1970-75, 3.4% during 1976-80 and 2% in 1981-82.
Constraints on Industry's Performance
30.       The adverse trend of the late 1970s in the world economy, the
resulting deterioration in Hungary's terms of trade and increasing
difficulties for its exports have accentuated the major shortcomings of the
Hungarian industry. A conspicuous problem is the unusually high consumption
of raw materials and energy in thie production process, particularly in heavy
industry. The main causes of this problem are the still prevailing focus of
enterprise managers on maximizing gross output, an objective strongly



- 10 -
encouraged under the former system of strict central planning, and use of
obsolete or unbalanced technologies. As a result, energy and material input
costs have tended to be high, representing 78% on average for the
manufacturing sector as a whole, compared with 50 to 60% for similar costs in
the western industries. Imports of input-conserving modern technologies from
the West to address this problem have been limited because of a severe
shortage of foreign exchange.
31.       Other significant problems are the lack of specialization within the
industrial sector and the low rate of innovations to replace obsolete
products. Compounding these problems are the absence of an appropriate number
of small and medium-sized firms which, in highly industrialized countries,
provide the larger enterprises with specialized or innovative components and
services of high technology and value.  The engineering industries, in
particular, have been affected by the lack of specialized/subcontracting
enterprises providing parts and components (called in Hungary "background
industries"), and exhibit substantial gaps in their production structure,
e.g., in precision castings and modern forging facilities. The third major
problem is insufficient reallocation of production factors to efficient
industries, resulting from the slow responsiveness of industry to reform
measures and policies. This is largely because of the high degree of
concentration in Hungarian industry which is characterized by large
enterprises. For instance, over 60% of industrial output is generated by
about 100 enterprises, and one-third of the labor force is concentrated in 38
enterprises, each employing more than 5,000 workers.
Industrial Policy and Objectives
32.       The major thrust of the Government's new industrial policy is to
limit the intervention of central authorities and to create a conducive
environment, through the use of appropriate incentives and measures, within
which enterprises can operate efficiently. Strict central planning is,
therefore, limited now to large state investments in mining and energy, which
represent one-third of total in,lustrial investments. The management of
enterprises has been decentralized. It is driven by fiscal and salary
incentives (bonuses and payments out of net profits), it is more
market-oriented, and has more autonomy in capital investments. To reduce the
concentration of enterprise activities and promote competition and
specialization, the authorities disbanded most of the large industrial trusts
in the late 1970s and are encouraging more small and medium-sized firms
catering to the larger enterprises' need for high technology comporents.
Restructuring of industry is also being encouraged through increased emphasis
on domestic technical innovations, import of advanced foreign technology, and
cooperation agreements with western companies.
33.       The Government is fully aware of the weaknesses of the industrial
sector and has expressed its determination to press further with structural
adjustments and the realignment of the sector to t:he world market. In this
respect, it has three basic objectives. The first. is to expand industrial
exports, focussing on domestic resource-based or high value and skill-
intensive productions (such as food industries, aluminum products,
pharmaceuticals, fine chemicals, and engineering industries) in which Hungary
generally has a comparative advantage because of its technically competent



- ii -
managers and its highly skilled low cost labor. The second is to conserve the
use of raw materials and energy through technological upgrading of production
facilities, rationalization of product-mix, and, if necessary, closing down of
non-redeemable facilities. The third is the promotion of "background
industries" for the efficient import-substitution of specialized components
and parts required, particularly by the engineering subsector.
Financial Sector and Credit Policies
34.       Hungary has a relatively undeveloped financial structure, with very
limited money and capital markets.  It has a centralized banking system in
which the national banking institutions serve as the key instruments for
implementing economic plans and policies. Among the eight Hungarian banking
institutions, the State Development Bank (SDB) and the National Bank of
Hungary (NBH) are by far the most important as suppliers and regulators of
investment finance. All state investments are channelled through SDB. NBH is
the central bank of the country, and also has commercial and development
banking functions.
35.       Although enterprises are now using internally generated funds to a
greater extent than in the past to finance new investments, they still need
loans and foreign exchange from the banking system. Consequently, a number of
preferential credit schemes have been established to influence the level and
direction of investment expenditures. These schemes, which are embodied in
NBH's Credit Guidelines, have become increasingly important since the
introduction of the New Economic Mechanism in 1968, and particularly since
1979. The Guidelines are revised annually and those for 1984 limit loans to
projects with short pay-back and high economic returns in five preferential
investment areas--export promotion, import substitution, energy conservation,
material-saving/recycling and technological innovation, and background
industries.
36.       Interest rates are increasingly used to weed out low yielding
projects. Interest rates have been rapidly adjusted in the recent past rising
from 9% in 1981 to 14% in 1983 for NBH investment loans. During the same
period, rates on medium-term loans for working capital were also raised in
steps from 10% to the present 15% level. State grants have effectively
disappeared for some sectors and have been only partially replaced by
interest-bearing and repayable state loans. The NBH conditions for credit
allocations have also been considerably tightened in response to rising demand
and increased competition for credit among enterprises. However, borrowers
J#       under the preferential credit schemes receive financial incentives if
pre-determined targets are achieved each year. Up to end-1983, these
incentives consisted of ex-post rebates of up to 45% of the interest cost,
resulting in an effective interest rate of 8% compared to NBH's standard
lending rate of 14%. Starting on January 1, 1984 this form of incentive was
replaced by tax refunds.
The National Bank of Hungary (NBH)
37.       The National Bank of Hungary, which will be the borrower of the
proposed loan, is headquartered in Budapest, with 19 regional offices and 64
branches throughout Hungary. It has a total staff of about 6,400, of which



- 12 -
2,760 are at the Head Office.  In its development banking role, its head
office appraises all projects with investment loans above $2.5 million
equivalent and export-oriented projects with loans above $800,000 equivalent.
All other investment loans and all working capital loans are processed by the
branches which also supervise projects. NBH's aupproach to and procedures for
project appraisal and supervision need to be strengthened. In particular, it
shou:Ld be involved to a greater extent in the determination of the technical
and rarketing viability of projects and should ensure a systematic supervision
of project implementation and operation.
38.       The main sources of NBH funds, besides foreign loans, are the
deposits of the Government, state enterprises, the state insurance company and
the other Hungarian banks. In the period 1978-1982, NBH's short and long-term
loan portfolios increased bv 65% and 22%, respectively, reaching a volume by
end-1982 of $4.2 billion and $10.6 billion, respectively. The performance of
these portfolios has been extremely satisfactory, with no write-offs during
1978-82 and only minor reschedulings. NBH's creditworthiness can be
considered fully satisfactory, in view of its good overall financial position,
its impressive record of loan recovery, its Government ownership, its role as
a Central Bank, and its close relationship with borrowing enterprises and the
other banks.
Bank Role in the Industrial Sector
39.       The Bank's role in the industrial sector is to assist the Government
in its ongoing program of structural adjustment by providing the much-needed
foreign exchange for investments, by giving advice based on economic and
sector work on investment strategy in branches and subsectors, and by
supporting institutional and poLicy reforms underway.  Emphasis in the
industrial sector needs to be reoriented to expand high quality exports to
convertible currency markets, improve competitiveness through reductions in
material input and energy use,and enlarge the capacity of small and
medium-sized firms for supplying high value, technology-based 'omponents to
larger enterprises manufacturing end-products for exports. The Bank's first
loan im the sector, for an Industrial Energy Diversification and Conservation
Project (Ln. 2317-HU), focussed primarily on reducing energy use. The
proposed project will complement it by targetting support to the other
restructuring needs of industry. By promoting export-oriented industries
under the proposed project, it is hoped that Hungary will be able to
counteract the deterioration in its terms of trade and to focus on new
subsectors with comparative advantages and raise the value-added and net
foreign exchange content of exports. Bank support for material savings
investments should lead to plant upgrading and technology transfer from abroad
and result in increased efficiency and competitiveness.  Assistance for the
promotion and development of background industries would fill a critically
missing link in the industrial structure for high value and technology-based
components in industrial production for hard-currency exports. Since these
components are most efficiently manufactured by small and medium-sized firms,
the latter would be actively supported under the project and should contribute
to the G3overnment's efforts in reducing the concentration of enterprise
activities. The proposed project will also help to strengthen NBH's
development banking role. Institution-building is thus an important objective
of the proposed project. As part of this objective, the Bank has assisted NBH



- 13 -
in introducing procedures for the financial and economic evaluation of
projects and in setting up formal appraisal and supervision systems. NBH's
capabilities in these areas are to be further intensified during the course of
project implementation. Subsectoral studies to be carried out under the
project should also provide the authorities with alternative strategies to
develop some of the key manufacturing subsectors.  Another significant impact
of Bank assistance is in the area of policy dialogue. As mentioned earlier
(para. 36), discussions initiated earlier and continued in the course of
preparing and appraising have resulted in the Hungarian authorities
eliminating interest rebates as an incentive measure starting on January 1,
1984.
IN,                                     PART IV.  THE PROJECT
40.       The project was identified in October 1982, preappraised in February
1983 and appraised in May 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington in
January 1984 with a delegation led by Mr. Katalin Bak6, General Manager of the
Foreign Trade Department of the National Bank of Hungary. A staff appraisal
report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report for an Industrial Export and
Restructuring Project" (No. 4803-HU) dated February 23, 1984, is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the
loan and project are listed in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III,
and a map of the country is attached.
Project Objectives
41.       The main objectives of the project are to support the Government's
programs for industrial restructuring and export expansion, and to strengthen
the development banking role of the National Bank of Hungary (NBH). More
specifically, the project would assist Hungary to diversify and expand exports
of all but heavy industries; increase industry's efficiency and
competitiveness through material-saving and technology upgrading investments,
and through the promotion of "background industries" producing essential high
technology components; and strengthen the capacity of NBH and other
institutions to formulate subsectoral development strategies, identify,
appraise and subsequently supervise projects, and support more effectively the
Government's economic reforms through appropriate investment and lending
criteria.
Project Description
42.       The project consists of three main components:  (a) a credit package
of about $38 million which would be onlent by NBH to finance the foreign
exchange costs of about 15 export-oriented and industrial restructuring
subprojects which have been identified and pre-appraised by the Bank; (b) two
lines of credit to NBH, one for export promotion and the other for industrial
restructuring for a total of about $71 million to help finance subprojects
meeting agreed eligibility criteria; and (c) expert and advisory services
required for carrying out three subsectoral development strategy studies, the
feasibility study of a chemical project, possibly to be financed by the Bank
in the future, and institutional strengthening of NBH.



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The total financing required for the project, including the Bank's
front-end fee, duties and taxes, incremental working capital, physical and
price contingencies and interest during construction, is estimated at $257.8
million, including direct foreign exchange requirements of about $110.0
million. Physical contingencies for the credit package have been estimated at
10% for local costs, which include expenditures for construction activities,
and at 5% for foreign costs as the list of machinery to be imported is well
established. Price contingencies were calculated assuming annual escalation
rates of 8% in 1984 and 7.5% in 1985 for local costs and 7.5% in 1984 and 7%
in 1985 for foreign exchange costs. Up to 64 man-months of foreign consulting
services are required for the project at an estimated cost of $10,000 per
man-month, including per diem, travel and other reimbursable costs, which is
considered reasonable.
44.       The proposed Bank loan of $110 million to the National Bank of
Hungary includes $0.28 million for the capitalized front-end fee. About $0.72
million would finance the foreign exchange costs of the technical assistance
component.  Of the balance of $109 million which will cover approximately
two-thirds of NBH's 1984-86 pipeline of export-oriented and industrial
restructuring subprojects, about $38 million would be onlent by NBH to cover
the direct foreign exchange costs of the 15 credit package subprojects and
about: $71 million would be for the two credit lines. Savings, if any, in the
amourIt allocated to the credit package would be reallocated to the credit
lines. The Bank's loan would cover about 43% of the total financing required
and 100% of the direct foreign exchange requirements. The balance would be
covered from internally-generated funds of beneficiary enterprises or equity
contributions ($65.68 million) and loans from the National Bank of Hungary
($82.1 million). Although the financing plan is complete, the Government has
expressed interest in seeking cofinancing for the project utilizing the new
"B" loan scheme.  The amount and timing of cofinancing will depend on market
conditions and other funds being raised by Hungary in the capital markets.
Cofinancing so raised would be used to expand the credit line component so as
to fully cover NBH's 1984-86 pipeline of eligible subprojects. The demand for
loans, particularly for foreign exchange, from NBH is large and far exceeds
NBH's financial capacity to satisfy it. Consequently, cofinancing funds would
be helpful in alleviating a critical shortage for higher priority investments.
45.       A likely additional cofinancing source is the Nordic Investment Bank
(NIB) which has been discussing with NBH and the Bank a possible participation
in the project with a loan to NBH of SDR 5 million. However, this
participation would be contingent on "Nordic interest" being established in
the project by some Nordic suppliers winning contracts under international
competitive bidding.  This does not necessarily imply that NIB would finance
these supplies; the Bank could do so with NIB providing an equivalent amount
for local currency expenditures in the project.
Project Implementation
46.       The Credit Package.  The 15 subprojects currently in the Credit
Package are for extension, rehabilitation, modernization or technological
upgrading of existing enterprises. They include seven export-generating
subprojects of which two are for textiles, two for pharmaceuticals, one for



- 15 -
food products (salami), one for wood products (chipboards) and one for
engineering industries (electrical gear), and eight restructuring subprojects
of which three are for material-savings (cellulose pulp, plastic products, and
electro- mechanicals), and five are technology upgrading to produce modern
components (plastic products and mechanical components). All these
subprojects were analyzed and assessed by the Bank on the basis of individual
reports by specialized consultants. Satisfactory appraisal reports for them
were prepared by NBH following agreed guidelines and were submitted to the
Bank during negotiations.
47.       The Credit Lines.  The two credit lines to NBH would finance,
respectively, export expansion and industrial restructuring subprojects which
would be approved by NBH on the basis of agreed eligibility criteria and would
be submitted to the Bank for review and approval during the period 1984-1986.
Eligible industrial enterprises would include all except certain heavy
industries (mining, electric power1, metallurgy and basic chemicals) and
agro-industries producing food in primary or unprocessed form. They should
have a satisfactory projected financial position permitting them to contribute
at least 25% of the subproject investment cost from internal cash generation
and/or equity increases, and maintain a debt service coverage ratio above 1.5
and a debt/equity ratio below 2:1. The subprojects to be financed should
yield a minimum financial rate of return (FRR) and economic rate of return
(ERR) of 12% in real terms. All export subprojects should additionally meet
the following specific criteria: (i) direct exports and/or sales to direct
exporters for convertible currency markets should represent at least 60% of
the subproject's expected output; and (ii) the cumulative net convertible
currency earnings (before capital depreciation) generated by the project
during its first four years of operation should exceed the convertible
currency component of the project's investment cost. These two criteria for
export subprojects, which were agreed upon with NBH, are a modification of
NBH's own eligibility criteria and are intended to ensure that import-
substitution projects, or projects with remote or loose linkages with exports,
would not be financed under the Bank loan. Specific criteria for industrial
restructuring subprojects include (a) investments made for material-savings
and technology upgrading purposes should generate a reduction of at least 10%
in the total cost of raw materials and other intermediate consumption of the
product line concerned, and/or (b) investments made for "background
industries" should use new technologies for producing parts, components or
sub-assemblies for sale to several enterprises to replace current or projected
imports, and should be undertaken by entities specialized in similar
production lines. The second criterion was designed to ensure that the Bank
funds would not be used mainly by large and non-specialized firms or trusts to
meet their own needs.
48.       Sub-project Limits.  Although the maximum subproject and subloan
sizes under the credit lines will normally be $20 million and $10 million,
respectively, the Bank may approve larger subloans in exceptional cases. On
the basis of a review of NBH's project pipeline, it is estimated that over 90%
of the subprojects will have a subloan size of less than $5 million. Since
NBH is experienced in making investment loans, a free limit of $1.0 million
has been established allowing NBH to approve subloans up to this amount
without seeking the Bank's prior agreement. In order to ensure that all
aspects of subproject evaluation will be considered by NBH, the Bank will
review the first five subloans under the free limit before their approval. It



- 16 -
is estimated that there will be 20-27 subloans under the credit lines, half of
which will be above the free limit and will require the Bank's in-depth review
and approval.
49.       Onlending Arrangements.  About $109 million of the proposed loan
will be onlent by NBH to beneficiary enterprises under the credit package and
the two credit lines. NBH has agreed that the interest rate on these subloans
would be at least equal to the Bank rate plus a 30% mark-up to cover its costs
and the foreign exchange risk (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para. 2). NBH,
however, intends to maintain the interest rate on subloans at the same level
as the prevailing domestic interest rate of 14% per annum. This would result
in a margin of about 4% to be earned by NBH on t;he Bank loan and will allow it
to cover its cost of administering the sub-loans and also assume the foreign
exch;ange and interest risks on the Bank loan. Loans from NBH's own sources to
these beneficiaries will be at similar rates. Since NBH has eliminated its
practice, starting January 1, 1984, of providing interest rebates for priority
investments, the effective interest rate paid by the beneficiaries will also
be 14%. These rates are well above the projected domestic inflation rates of
8% in 1984, 7.5% in 1985 and 7% in 1986. The repayment terms of the sub-loans
will be consistent with NBH's present policy which provides for a maximum
maturity period for investm,ent loans of 12 years from the start of operations
or of the economic life of the investment, whichever is lower. It is
estimated that the normal subloan repayment period will be between 7-10 years
inclusive of grace periods. Funds received from sub-borrowers by NBH and not
yet due on the Bank loan would be utilized for similar export-oriented and
industrial restructuring investments. As the subsector studies are to be
carried out by the Ministry of Industry, NBH will pass on $0.55 million to the
Government, which will reimburse NBH for all charges and repayments to the
Bank for this portion of the loan.
Institution-Building Component
50.       NBH has substantial experience in industrial financing and its
performance, based on loan recovery results, has been satisfactory. Its
operational procedures are elaborate and well-defined, and staff engaged in
industrial sector operations carry out their responsibilities well. NBH,
however, does not have its own technical staff for project appraisal and
supervision. It depends largely on the views of the Ministry of Industry
(MOI) concerning the technical viability of industrial projects. For
marketing prospects, NBH relies substantially on the views and assurances of
specialized foreign trade enterprises. NBH's project supervision consists
only of financial follow-up of its borrowers and does not include regular
monitoring of the project.
51.       NBH needs to reorient its approach and procedures to enable more
comprehensive project appraisal and supervision. In order to assist in
achieving this, NBH will retain the services of three Hungarian technical
institutes--the Chemical Industries Engineering Center, the Technical
Institute for Machinery and the Light Industries Engineering Center. To
enable NBH to review and assess the market prospects of projects both in
Hungary and abroad, it will retain the services of the Institute for Economic
and Market Research which is well-qualified for the purpose. The draft terms
of reference for all these Institutes' assistance to NBH were finalized and



- 17 -
agreed upon during negotiations. Conclusion of satisfactory arrangements with
these institutes to perform the above-mentioned services for NBH will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.02(b) and 6.01(a)).
52.       As part of its efforts to strengthen its development banking
functions, NBH has agreed to introduce the use of financial and economic rates
of return, and the preparation of financial projections (income statements and
cash flow statements) in its comprehensive economic and financial appraisal of
subprojects and of the beneficiary enterprises (Loan Agreement, Section
3.04(a) and Schedule 5, para. 4(a)(i)). NBH has agreed to prepare and review
with the Bank by October 31, 1984 a draft operational manual for comprehensive
project appraisal and supervision. After taking into consideration the Bank's
views, the manual will be finalized and adopted within three months thereafter
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). The experience thus gained will be reviewed
by NBH, in consultation with the Bank, not later than June 30, 1986 to ensure
that the feasibility of extending the comprehensive appraisal and supervision
thus developed to all other indusl:rial projects financed by NBH will be
examined (Loan Agreement, Section 4.04(a)).
53.       In order to assist NBH tin its project work, the proposed loan will
finance the foreign exchange cost of up to 10 man-months of expert services
($100,000) and up to $75,000 for training abroad of NBH staff. NBH expects to
appoint a general expert in project appraisal and supervision in end-March/
early April 1984 to assist in (i) preparing the appraisal reports of the first
five subprojects to be submitted to the Bank for approval under the credit
lines; (ii) strengthening NBH's supervision procedures; (iii) preparing the
draft operational manual;and (iv) guiding and training NBH staff in overall
project appraisal and supervision. The draft terms of reference of the expert
were finalized and agreed upon during negotiations. NBH would also use the
services of specialized technical and marketing experts as needed to
complement its appraisal work of subprojects. The training element will
finance the cost of sending 3 to 4 professionals to foreign institutes and a
study tour of selected industrial development banks for about 6 months to
strengthen their knowledge of techniques and procedures for project appraisal
and supervision.
54.       In order to assess the comparative advantage and export potential of
selected industries and to identify the major constraints on their exports and
likely remedial policy measures, three subsector studies, on pharmaceuticals,
foundry and forging and agricultural machinery, will be carried out under the
project. The proposed loan would finance up to $450,000 to cover the foreign
exchange costs of about 45 man-months of expert services.  Foreign expertise
and advice on international price comparisons and markets are needed. The
studies are expected to be completed by March 31, 1985, and would be reviewed
and discussed with the Bank (Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.02(b)).
55.       The Hungarian authorities have also requested Bank assistance and
cooperation in carrying out the feasibility study for a large chemical project
for the fabrication of methyl diphenyl diisocyanate (MDI), a chemical material
for the manufacture of polyurethane foam which is used as an efficient
insulation medium in industry and construction, as well as for upholstery and
other purposes in the furniture and automobile industries. In view of the
promising export prospects and the relative importance of this project in the



- 18 -
future investment program for chemical industries, up to $100,000, to cover 10
mart-months of foreign exchange costs for the study, is proposed to be financed
from the Bank loan. Foreign consultants will be selected and employed
according to Bank guidelines; their terms of reference were agreed upon with
the Government.
56.       Retroactive Financing.  A number of subprojects in the credit
package which have been preappraised by the Bank and found eligible for
financing under the project are ready to start implementation and need to have
orders for imported equipment placed soon.  An estimated $6.0 million worth of
equipment and materials have been identified for expected delivery by March
1984 and it is anticipated that an additional $2 million worth of items
including services of foreign experts and the training of Hungarian officials
will also be needed before loan signing. In order to avoid delays in the
start of implementation, it is recommended that retroactive financing be
allowed for an amount of up to $8 million (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para.
3(a)).
Procurement and Disbursements
57.       Goods and services to be financed from the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan would be procured according to the Bank's Procurement and
Consultants Guidelines. Individual bidding packages above $1 million would be
procured through international competitive bidding. Other individual packages
or orders below this value would be procured on the basis of limited
international tendering with bids obtained from potential suppliers in at
least three eligible countries. This procedure would be appropriate in view
of the diversity, number and small size of orders involved and the small
number of qualified suppliers available for the high-technology machinery.
Since the proposed loan has been structured to finance the convertible
curriency costs of goods and services generally not available in Hungary, most
suppLiers are expected to be foreign. For those small number of items
avaiLable locally, Hungarian suppliers would bid and be eligible for the
Bank's standard domestic preference. Items not financed by the Bank will be
procured according to local procedures.
58.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against 100% of the
foreign expenditures for consultants' services and fellowships, and for the 15
credit package subprojects; and against 100% of foreign expenditures and 100%
of local expenditures, ex-factory for equipment and materials needed for the
credit line subprojects. In order to expedite disbursements, a revolving fund
of $5 million, equivalent to about two months' estimated disbursements, will
be established. This amount will be deposited in a special account with NBH
upon loan effectiveness.  An additional condition of loan effectiveness,
therefore, is the opening of such an account in NBH (Loan Agreement, Sections
2.02(b) and 6.01(b)).
Reporting and Auditing
59.       NBH would prepare sunmary quarterly, and detailed semi-annual,
progress reports on all subprojects and submit them to the Bank. All
beneficiary enterprises would be required to submit their audited annual
accounts to NBH for review by the Bank during supervision. NBH would furnish
to the Bank its audited annual accounts and the audited project accounts.



- 19 -
Benefits and Risks
60.       Benefits to be derived from the 35-42 subprojects (including the 15
in the credit package) to be financed under the project consist of incremental
annual sales of about $215 million, of which about $110 million would be in
convertible currency exports. Net foreign exchange earnings would amount to
about $60 million per annum which, when combined with the estimated foreign
exchange savings of $45 million to $75 million per annum (from material
savings and import substitution from technology upgrading background
industries subprojects), would have a positive impact on Hungary's balance of
trade of about $105 million to $135 million.  The economic rate of return of
subprojects would average 22%.
61.       Equally important would be the non-quantifiable benefits to be
derived from the institution-building components. NBH's ability to select
strong bankable projects should be improved through the process of
comprehensive appraisal based on an objective market review, a thorough
technical and financial evaluation, and an economic cost-benefit analysis
introduced under this project. The development and adoption of a new
extensive project supervision system and of reporting requirements under the
project should enable a more timely completion of projects and minimize cost
overruns. The enhanced professional expertise to be gained by NBH staff,
through technical assistance, training abroad, and the appraisal and
supervision of sub-projects, should have a positive impact on the overall
operations of NBH in the industrial sector.
62.       On the policy side, project appraisals using border pricing for
significant elements and shadow pricing for energy and labor in computing the
economic rate of return for the subprojects would improve investment decision
making and help to select viable competitive investments which would further
the national structural adjustment objectives. The subsector studies should
also help to further these objectives by formulating development strategies
for some of the key sectors of the economy, thereby providing the Hungarian
authorities with options developed on the basis of independent review.
Finally, the requirement of 25% self-financing for eligible subprojects will
induce enterprises to postpone projects of low priority as already witnessed
for some of the credit package beneficiaries.
63.       The main risks confronting the project are essentially those
attached to a new Bank borrower, particularly in the use of new concepts,
approaches and operational procedures for implementing subprojects. However,
c          the high quality of NBH's staff and their achievements to date in the
preparation of satisfactory appraisal reports for subprojects in the credit
package should keep these risks at a low level.  The Bank's substantial
monitoring and supervision efforts should also help to minimize them.  No
environmental risks are expected for the credit package subprojects as
adequate safeguards acceptable to the Bank and the Hungarian authorities have
already been built into their designs. For the credit line subprojects,
appropriate safeguards will be ensured as part of NBH's subproject appraisal
procedures.



- 20 -
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Bank of
Hungary, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Hungarian People's Republic
and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
65.       Features of the project of special interest are listed in
Section III of Annex III. The conclusion of satisfactory arrangements with
technical and economic research institutes to assist NBH with the appraisal
and supervision of subprojects, and the opening of a special account in NBH to
facilitate the operation of a revolving fund, are additional conditions of
effectiveness.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attac'hments
March 1, 1984
Washington, D.C.



21-                                                  ANNEX I
Page I of 5 pages
_ UNCART - SOCtAL INMICATORS DATA SHIRT
HCM! T                           RtrERENCE CROWS (WEICHrtO AVERACES
AlltA (THtUA    SQ. 0.L                                                                               - MOST I'CEtV lSTtKArZI.  _
TiTAL            93.0/f                                                   POST RCItC          81001. INCIWU        I DSTALIZED
ACSICaLTORAL    66.17F                         19O lb       1970 lTIHATR /                       rlJRor          KazrT ImOHUS
CXP PEP CAPtTA CUSS)                                   .. (30.0                  2100.O0I             2323.9                1031S.2
MaZRy CONSONPTION PER CAPITA
IiWC&A?IS Of COAL E4UIVALET)                   1710.0      2799.0            4094.0w             2101.4                 7277.7
POPULATION AND YITAL STATISTICS
POFULATTWI,  IO-Y-EAR (ThOUSMDS)               9984.0     10337.0           10711.0
UltiAN POPLATION (PERCENT Of TOTAL)              40.1         47.6            51.4                 4.9                     78.0
POPUI.ATION ?ROJECTtONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (NtLLTONS)                                           11.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILLIONS)                                             11.7                  *
TEAL  STATIOARY POPULATION RECIC                                         2030
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. DI.                                   107.3       111.2             115  2/1 1 .3                              1lR.S
PER SQ. CH. AGRICULTRAL LAND                  139.5       150.3             141.6               13S54                  309.7
POPUIATION AGE STRUCTURI (PERCENT)
0-14 nRS.                                      25.4         21.1             21.9                31.1                    21.7
15-64 nIS.                                    41.7         47.4             64.7                 41.2                   4S.Z
S5 TRS. AND AEOYN                               8.9         11.5             13.4                 7.7                   11.l
POrULATION CROI    RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                           0.7         0.3               0.4                 1.4                    0.8
URBAN                                           1.5          2.1              1.4                 3.5                    1.4
CR71E 919TH RATE (PER THOUSAND)                  14.7         14.7             13.9                23.6                   14.5
CRCIE DEATII RATE (PER THOUSND)                  10.2         11.6             13.6                 9.2                    9.3
CROSS REPRODUCTION RArx                           1.0          1.0              0.9                 1.6                    0.9
elAILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSA.NS)                    ..       149.0/c           684.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF NARRIED lOhEN)                 ..         6.0              28.0/C
MOD A."D N ITION
IN;DEX Or1f657Ro0TucTioN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                      83.0         91.0            136.0                116.0                  111.1
PER CAPITA 3UPPLT PT
CAZ.ORITS (PERCENT Of REQUEIRCTS)            122.3        127.6             1346.4ft            125.1                  130.9
PROTEINS (CRAIS PER DAY)                       8R.9        A6.2              94.37T              92.7                   97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE                   35.9         39.0              46.i71              35.9                   6t.3
CH:LO (AGES 1-4) DATH RAnT                        1.6          1.1              0.S                 9.2                    0.5
HElLTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT RITH (TEAS)                   67.9        69.4              70.4        S        7.6                   73.8
INFANT NOTAJITrY RATE (PER THOUSAND)             47.6        35.9              23.2                65.1                   11.3
ACCESS TO SAlE VATER (PERCENT
OF POPU'LATION)
:GTAL                                         22.7/d       36.1/d           45.0/d
UR1                                              ..        - 64.9/i          83.8/..
URAkL                                            ..        10.6/i           43.1/.
ACCESS TO EXCEETA DISPOSAL
(PEACE"T OF POPULATION)
TC.TAL                                           ..        27.0/d            37.0Od
URBAN                                            ..        S4.S/            65. 5/.
RURAL                                            ..          2.5/d            3.8/id
P5PU;LATII PEA PHTSICIAN                       720.0       507.0            400.0               1105.4                  620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON                   326.0/h     235.0             145.0 o36.4                                2.6.9
POP"LATION PER HOSPlTAL BED
T)TAL                                         140.C/h     124.0             114. n              286.8                  122.0
:RSAN                                          ao.O,n      134.0            129L.0              192.0                  140.4
RURAL                                            ..          ..
ADOIISSIONS sER HOSPITAL RE                        ..         20.8             21.4                20.0                   17.7
ITOUSING
AVIRACE SIZE OF HOUSESOLD
TOTAL                                           3.1          3.0              2.8
URBAN                                            ..         2.7               2.7
RURAL                                            ..          3.2              3.0
AVERAGE WIDBER OP PERSONS PER  III
TOTAL                                           2.4          2.0             1.5
URSAN                                            ..          1.9              1.5
RULA                                             ..         2.0              1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
of DIELLINGS)
TOTAL                                          74.6        91.7             98.0
URBAN                                            ..        94.6             99.0
RURAL                                            ..        87.4             96.7



-22-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
HU4CART - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHlT.T
ttUUAiV                          REFERENCE CROUPS CWZICIITEO AVEiCES
)      11DD 0$ T  IrCENT ESTI4 ATE)/a
1960 /b  tio lb    HOST RECEIP         ?IDLICONE             1U'44STIALIZED
1,80 /b     19i0 lb         ESTiKATE lb           EUR.OPE         lutREEt ICOIHjItS
EDUCATIONI
ADJURTCD V0OLLMEiNT itATIOS
PR"P.ARTs    TOTAL                            101.0         97.0             97.5                102.9                   101.7
KiALt                            103.0         91.0             91.18               107.1.
rz   *      o100.0       91.0             97.0'   99.0                                103.6
SECOiDAIT  TOTAL                               47.0/1       32.0             40.0                 80.2                   88.4
)IAU                              37.07r       26.0              33.)0                6.4                    83.4
VFiDILZ                           35.01?       38.0             47.0                 54                     84.2
VOCATION1AL ENROL. (I OF SECOhMART)              30.4         47.5              53.1;               31.8                    16.2
7P'JFI-TtACRU t RAY1O
FR1;ART                                        24.3         17.7             15.1                 25.8                   20.3
SECONDARY                                      11.4         10.4              &.1                 2.2                    16.1
ADULl' LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)                .  96.7         98.0             9e.5                 75.9                   98.9
CONSUMPT10.4
PASS'.CER CARS PER THOUSAND POPULATION           1.3         23.2             54.1                 51.0
RAUIn RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND POPULATION         22;.8        244.8            252.1                157.2                 1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSA,ND POPULATIoN            10.4        171.1            252.3                123.7                  403.6
NEWSPAPER (MOAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
T tCUSAND POPL'ATIOtf                         141.6        213.2            241.6                112.3                  331.2
CIiE'A ANYIMAL ATTENDOANCE. PE.R CAPITA         14.0          7.7              6.7                  4.0                     3.6
LAuOr FORCE
1OTAL LAIOR FORCE (Th0UsmdXDs)                 4681.0       4995.0           5044.0
FE!/AIE (PERtCENT)                             33.5         41.2             44.8                 36.6                   36.0
A'RICULT'RE (PERCENT)                          37.0         24.8             20.S        3S.7 *.2
tSDtlSTRT (FETuCLVi)                           33.3         44.4             42.6                25.9                    37.8
PARTICIFATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                          46.9         48.3             47.1                 44.5                   45.1
MALE                                           62.7         58.1             53.7                 56.3                   53.9
FEMtALE                                        32.1         38.6             40.9                 32.8                   32.4
ECONCSIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                         0.7          0.7              0.7          -       0.9                    0.6
IK:oxt D0ISIIpt7CrIN
PEFrL';T C' PSIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED aY
US4VE!' S FERCE.:T OF tIOUSEIIOLOS             12.1/        11.5/.           10.6t.
HIGHEST 20 PEZCENr OF HOUSEHOLDS               34.81e       33.7/V           32.31T                 *-                   43.0
LOVEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS                 9.4/e        9.9/V           10.8/7                 ..                    5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENr OF ttCUSEHOLDS '             23.6/_       24.9/7           26.2/V                 .,                   16.5
PnVE!jry TARCET CFOOPS
ESIISATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URSAR                                            ..           ..    ..                              ..
RURAL                                            ..           ..               .e                   ..
ESTIHATED RELATIVE TOVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                            .            .                ..
RURAL                             '              *'           '-                                406.t
ESTIMATEO POPULATION SELOW ARSOLVrl
pOVEs :Y I:NCOME LEVEL (PERCEXE)
UR9A4                                            ..           *.               ..                   .-                     *
RULAL                                            ..           ..
Not ayaLlable                                                                                    -
Not applicable           N
NOTES
/.  The Iro.p averages fot eacth  dndScat at art po"ution-v.etghted atithbotLc means.  Coverage of couatrtea acong the
1cd1cators depends an availabiltty of data and 1. not untfora.
lb   .nlIe.s othervtse noted. dsta for 1960 Wafer to any year betveen 1959 and 1961. for 1970, betveark 1969 and 1971; and for
M.ot Recent Estitet, betve.n 97f J 1960.
Ic  Vonern of reproductiva age (17-49) uSIA! oral ceritraetpttves.  /d  Percent of occupied dvellings.  /*  Pterent of tncea.
received by the tespective percent o0 the populatIon, and data TeIrt to pear. 1982, 1911 and 1917. -t  1980, LL  191?,
h l1962,, /1  1960  teAt  Include part-tRee adult ed .r..tion. h.n.t rot ceaperabte to 14ta. yea4cs, Li  1981.
february, 1983



-23-                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
AflIMS 01 B&IAL. Il0lCA?M
Attobt.do.-         o..foe PC    0cr,.psacolI  JOdIOd th.o  -"   .i.ittO    a   o1i401t.. It 001014  I- a. ho  .0.  tat.?hs  -, -t h* Imesr-
otio.lr    "I00i   bOo.... .6  Oh. look .t a.dodoo   di.ial.   .o,d 1-Ceusot  1.504 by d9l-f.t SmOo aO5  Oo11otit8  t   data "I..a dat  or.. .iO
tht..,ot 1o t. doaci. .04.0. .4 005C.114. Lol-dot    t-odo.. St Obl-C1ootcrt.t t                     "J, 093r  ltotoott  bMtt..oecOt
OTM   aor    I"".7 Sr. (IS at. m.-  -otrh Stlf."  of ch. Gw.baC' 4oasta  004 (01 a .matry pop -ith  .. e,ao  Mamh,                                           Ch-g.tc..10  lb. airy7 F.0.
et 'ht. atbjet a.trv (#tt9iIt W            0130 loo--    all  aot,   Sroop ot.re -iddla  iftor   booth AfricO  a..  Middle g.a.t  to  bhaaah                    -  o.1 of otoos
-$ot-.I...ltrl& fitio           .  to h. IIIoooeo   iro~   Ut. to  -v. S..  Cr. ,ootaio htlbta   .rtti-ttc  -la  far .-o   tdl4kto-  tod  Iba  sal, a
ta-imiy  t1 ik. Cto.tsrts. lo    $- ar.. o data too tbt todiloa-.  Starl. o                         .1trt   -C1.aort. 0-t tO,. 1toiti-or   4cy.dt oo. -  t     ctl.hIltay  .4 Sol
0.W  I.Chet? at If'.Ctto. omam   Ibm  aloO -1104 rooas.  5t4.e..                 .       -k wC           t-      me   _ B....y    11L.t
hASh (ibo.ad . .     m. WP2ntololo   " o titetoled.  - O.a.  raa   0  rarl -.Poeo.tL"ao   (ttatl.
T-ta  - Total ..rIao    -ro  conWtS l.ad oat. -Ad W S                -oa   ..tor; 0079 dot..           or. . Sod tora     ioIod"     Ch.&Oo,  .opatia            .IOro  banta    bog.
Ooioi.1- to nto"  .0             ...aliro L  c.  .aad t."-ootly  -r p.a,Cah-tly                 ... Ulabl  it tobitotro  ilOata   oor-00 -I1 AA        ilto    tto         .4 0.
iar 00.94. PaatSOe. MIMIo M.d atto..-  ord.o or to  IL. f.11.0; L970 dota.                           b.bill ..i.  cot.o    U01.tt        . .t.l....rta0ltioo ,-  pe -aoaII o.taffa
hr at L.0.0  5  ptotI -.t bll.h-..t   Ot-14t.ti  Prtoo1p.LIp toto-
OoIoto  hyo.m  ioaorio. .0Oto  00 0.C14 Soo  Atlo. (1008-40 bo.trl  1906,                      .a  .4tt -di--I     tr-l-t   oosal   -tffd bY a tky.titt-  (bat k6,
107. Cd  I910 dt..                                                                                     madloo   -L.-Ct.o   bo .1. t4tf.. atl.) tOttot Otf-Cl-pool   t
A-1   .1 ..-e-W              (C-1                                              PL401. .4 rorda    1 .10.4   0 1 tOd   dloo  foohipt.   Ft  ooS,
a.  Iiait. LO-tt loos. -t .tOL P:..   hyd 0-. o.olmr   Wo  go-th.Itr            L.r-                oo    'tlhtprt.1.1 or.. tota  bc-pt*1t ld todil04mar
;trilayP) 0.  91oa.oS o  oool  q.ioala    o    oi    1940. 1970. oa   OOcoo.   tottadtatt.d*0tcoadat    drtrt
Osta.                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A41t.to,o a"o 0.00t0.   oa"  - ""1.  a,0o    lcoot of"It iarksopt
to.  ootOl  4104.   btOh  ra0o   at  Wo..
1OPMIATItO  ANM VITAL. STATSTMCO
Totl  ttl.ioa  Nd-tar tbot.4.  -A. at 2t1y It 1060. 1030. tod IsO                     iUWilc
df.oaai;-rtt.iLotAoloh.    .roomy  fac    a -rbilit L1 f lI.C.                                       .d t 10.1  at. -.I..  A bordar or 1otoot my wf may rt 60  W04.40   So
-- totrSoc; 1960. lOT0. .04IW L9           00d.                                                   lbs biocbsI  for  tboatSiti.1  a0r.
frpolaoita Pootoctp.L.ct- p                                                                  beo    Lort   os.   a   oa    0.,ob.  o   od -ros..
otL I   opa1L-a   by aS. 004 100cad tholr  -tolity a.d tatlorot.                                 4.loj.a.satoy.101.I.eold .-                      .a-0.s   tOoo    a"
?rulttto   pholOrt.   far  -crtalty Iao  totcoftootoI-bo-acptad  Ptot..
0.  ll  tptoto     at birth lotoolio  su ft%   cAtOPa "toyto lot                         A ... Io "lootoIolity  (0..00                  I.o*.aa  - Os...1. obo   a  oa 
load.0.4  oosl  lIlaotraooao   ttohtttt. atItS Y.-0.  VI.  Ea_-1o 1_ttaa  4~1 .0tlta    clarct,t    ,l5oara..   Otto6
L-hilt   .oots0100.fbat .c  ~..i    ol                                    _-otolot p.tto.c#
at   etlti, .-oA. forrooolopoooo                                                           Ml7000  tOoi. t 11
acaolooor ,trlatloo- So a  tatboory oo?Ootloo  hor. 1  0. grwS  L1C.            101"00  0001 -  tatt  solo aai tamale - Or... -00.I, ala  ..  f.o.o
Ito bIrth  oslo  L. "-Ic ta  lo da 4Ctb oat          aS  alto   6   C   tb . X.                      onottc    l01   o t 0  tc  rI y bas ..I                 r.tt.ofooato
mala  000000..  ThLs 10 .0,hi.."  001  f...0  Wt-CISyrt.dot.topityoko-g p'talilcy                                                          ormtlytooodo  ohlto.!.   S" 6-1"1
at0o   lI.a*_  iftaf000.    .taloryp.1  .as tao:oo- li.. .100 aaoo.0 ...400aOot  a-ota-   may  -oo4 100 poocetc
oolta    sa 0. b"a.i. at 11   rjatOoaooat.tso  iSa  ocltso                                      i.   -a  VoPtl. tro b.1- . 0   So  0h0 015001S. 1 ota  010.
So ibmroa  2000.  d4 Ch. 0000 06 dtlt=    f fortllttyrot I to C  rCPLa...                         loodr   cho       0.1            gad I.-*1. - Coooto  ca  b.60,   t-.dry
1000 stattoOrc rrolotos      rccod-Tho Y-o  .0..  -tao-tar  PsP.oLat                                   pr-1d.t  gon..a.  oactla.1 0L0050   rSaoitototta    for papIS
.10.  i1l1 bs .06.                                                                                    calr1 12 t0 17 yaooaof ago; aorooopard-a.  -ooa..  Co. potarily
Pt   0.1. - MLd-1-o   roooiap.r toocc  killoO-  1100 bsota..ol of                           Vl...ti-ca t -ooloc    rroo   f.oodrl      oaloo   oOiaO
l.C.1  -o.c  1060  1"10 00, Is7s 4.ta-                                                            loolol   -ato-l. l ctt.l..o  lt .               00104  9         p00   090 10 adpeofd-
For op. ho. *ooioot-.r  lan   - Coopotod 00 ahoc  too  -gioi.ol1.                                    aly  dra   ep.1-In. of  -.4atoy   ott,toa
oal;  060  173  041070 4.ti..105-.t. 00  - Orto.c... c..oc7                                                                                       totooot ototd 
70 .0 1060   00   0  1000:"ys  iota.                                                         44,10t  ftoorac , ct 'ro-r...) - LLt.oato.dclta  (o.1   to 0.0  Wo  -iti.)
Poaltoo1ot5  oa  000h0   total - 1Oco  SrCwo   Ia.-tf total Ceid-                                 cm.    ..r.ottg   at lotal 44.10 pp.l..L..  zrd 13 7oar. .Aa   c.
otrpo0oi'..b 1.    1-0   00l.a 11070I-010.
-h~ata  r,O   Sc.t (orrl-,o    - -rb.-  Aoo.*   V.oot  oaooe of -.06     p.,.-             CONSER(PTlOe
C.01      f. ta  105-60. 1000-70  .od 1970-00.                                                      I.octrCr.(0  tbooaoed ocyo1atior) - Ottosagr C a. .......100c  mot.
dc011tU;106 100. 04IW  4A-1.                                                                        01-bi110V.0tb7 ..altolro.    ghtp...
CroOc  NoCtb R-0:  p00 ro-ood) -  --00*  da-S. P.t thootod  ofA10                                     ot   .tlosPo  b..cdOo,cOc                          l tlyp.  of 05000fr si.
Ooc,100c0;164. 101.  04  000daC.                                                        Ui odctObt.or1    9010p.                 E0.00d of prlao.; oaldt   -
0010taO;o t.llfi-yo A..          Cfrod-gt -A 10,17.  tadLl   1-80.                        0010 t.dctot .ohta   c-Iottto..,                  - bh. gitti               teo
Po.to   lo,atr-Tar. o.r00tI ucrried matoa  - P- -ett. of .000104                             '0t.tIt..0    Ia  year.  ,h.. co            aLo  oc f'TOtt   01. S ffoot.
bootcC rod ?aa,ttloOoar  .000  (l00-71.t00 - ".40  of V.'  -ptop      -Iao           Clo-.    -1oa A-OOdc-  ro            l., Yr0.0  5- 0 4 000. '             .6.Ir o
rr40lao   11foIollm    Pradool                          -.4ood. .o  .d   7.0 f.04                    tlck.t. .        I1 0Lnta 06. roar. Ioo   0 L-. og   tOcmto 4010j.-t  ito
1=00   .1..    arbt.   o dllotor   r.r   o.(..  OraOsd maild 4.00
Coaoo   at .00=0).  bic-1com    ptd61. cd   01.10  .tltr       y 1. (m.o. oAfABOR 0.4
- mtas  laoo9oao    oootio,  1001-61. 1070. tad 1L0. ot                                           T.t-L1.r oclboo.4t- Oooal-LLy 00ti- P -t0..to1dA
P.   cia  upyofolrr  (portot  fCrOocomt   -loptod fts                                                 orfd foro*0    om.l,cboocli.2o  h-.ot-oao   -od.,t.' .t,C..
00    0.    oIaOoO yls   o.r.  4..0 Leo                                      I... .001    loo       ct      Po.0bl.o  196D. 1970 .0d ttto  4.*..
"'aTa.  A.-4  b.o     tt00k.  001 lpolLr   - t.dd   ,016..00..tat   rro                                                P-.al  labor  o... a. ror--tat  of  ota  taboo fot.
oaoli.=04t   .4  rooot Le I..                     I  dmt-dotoO    &,IOOoo                       AtOo,loO   Ill00000) - labortforce It f-rAloo. fo rY.                  L.oIn  ad
0000000tot..adby PAG Oef0 fh...d           loOicaI. .    -od. Oor   -La 000-                     SlAr   a  tOt,.0o  00.1  10 L bo.,                1060. I . 1070  M0  IWO do...
bocool   001  tl-45   til  trd  07               l6 00. 1070 .04 1900 d.Oc.
tot o.F!!ily of f.o2 crdc   bo   ,0.c  food L. 4011.0    Ot.6c .  -                                        LIrotyrboaroao .odctoa.  0.SdfoloIar(rat
qarttmfor all 00000010   -,oablltbd by 0004A p00d0  o   100.rrot                                            ftoa,sl .0.0 foacto oco                    E o   of oIl . II0a  -op.oiol;
salad   Poote 000.;;   aroao   f Ch.  -id1. pl0.900.6y FAD Ic.60thtd                              Eo.t  O04o tao-totof  -.pla  oo0.00  15 .04 61 sod tes
W.,l  704 .    r.d'   0016         'a17  .td 1977 dat..                                             tO 1h0 tatal 100-  foOro.
01,04 fr.   all   00pl                SC-tro ., o  day;I101-45. 1970 .04  0977 4l.0.           100:090 ltSTlluTt7f
C6h4ild       -A  Stb  a ("ro "boaodb -            1OoO  d-.00 P., thoo Ao 00                       Fto--Rcto  cC ftro t 1a.o    (60h16 Ic  00  And 06,17  - Rtt-lco   by roah.-
", foo 1,-4 I    t..... to  hbtld- ro   Oth0.  S. to    - gr to. f   aca  doomIcp.o,0~              5 pct.hob.., 20 por..... P--es  20pr.e. aad Poorrat 00 pa,Cto
001. data dartoo   Irt. lifo  tIbl.; 0060. 10)  04 1MO dot..                                        Of boo.m0Id..
OtALTi                                                                                              POVIATT TAOCOT 0000P0
110.          llaOoao  t   10  fsoore) -  voa. 0-0c  of yo.r. af ILfa r-aLrLot                      Th   otorso0r                r   o    epp... L-t    - -.to   of    -t,rl  10.-I.,
00 61000; 5060. 1070 .00 1001 data.                                        ~a0   h_ood 00ltOrld   16oc.d.atoola
Ptat0.r.l. p . (Per thoocood)   A-Acul 446  of                  -JaOOtoC ..m  y...        1.P00.-0.8.00           y00   I--.Lt. ISOor0011-ob.04n.
600 of r.ooIo  (toott. .060,  004 turoll *tth Otaaooabt  .005                                 -  to . t.  .0t, d.blo
Looaott0   I60  OtpOtad  -foullloo    t  a,- 010  I00  a                                                                                                       r0b OOO    .0.  Xt00.00.Ibtlr  .dod1.. Oh  rra
do too bs..t it a~~~~~.aO.d o dltotOfc,100.0Oo 0.00 cO 06. do ~ ~ ~     ~          ~         ~          Ub Ia -tetubIco iILo "7...
Z                                                                                                                                                                                 ay.  co  00.
Aoot. 1  0.0mb0000041fOocey h.,poth       atoo                   f . 1   Crho.    -h1 o 1rc  -~f .L                                            .  
0,0.00of90.50(Ital,tr...0.  raot)locodby.00L.0  dOmpoatI to
00000.o   h  toaata    Ooat C           a.   0000407 .p1 0.   atd
P(.ol.to    o    lpsa.tt   0400                 oot.   ml0...0,0
rr.l15    to                                                                                                                        Zt-1 roa-Prmaitdodo    ybc    f  00  oo  Soy LW .-! x..L
Lt tdltnd   C04..   or.. -         a.le.ato ttoo                                                                                         A-uotool  .ola  .-0
L:ot. W   tlt.ob00.hlt                .L-



- 24 -
Page 4 of 5 pyps
EO4IC IWICAIg.
CROSS mXS.nc PHQI=  IN 1983                                                   AL4L RA1E OF  W        , cstant prices)
US S Bil.          Z                      1970-75      1975-80     1980-82      1983
(McP at Mrket Prices               20.2           100.0                       6.3          4.0         2.9         0.9
Gross Danestic Invest               5.4            26.7                       6.2          2.6       -2.8        -5.0
Gross Ibrestic Saving               5.8            28.7                      10.8          5.7         4.9         3.5
Resource Balarne                   -0.4            -2.0
1:xports of Goods, lES             8.1             40.1                      10.4          7.2         4.9        12.5
Imports of Gwd, NES                7.6             37.6                      6.7          4.7         0.1         5.7
(XU=, LABOR F.CE AM
IvRM=IVIIY  IN 1983
Value Jed                                labor Force           V. A. Per Worker
BEE      US SiI. Bi.                                              Z         US S          Z
Agriculture            152.2        3.4            16.8                   1,083           21.8     3,139.0       85.7
Irnustry              375.4        8.5             42.1                   1,951          39.2     4,357.0       179.0
Services               277.6       6.3             31.2                   1,937          39.0      3,252.0       88.8
Unallocaten /I         91.7        2.0              1.9
Total/Aver-age     896.9       20.2           100.0                   4,971          100.0     3,661.0 /2    100.0t12
G TVOM  FLIW
State &4gct
(Forints Bit.)       %f G[P
1983       1983          1980-83
Current Receipts         539.2      60.1           59.2
Current Expenditures    484.6      54.0            52.7
OLrrent Surplus          54.6       6.1             6.5
Capital Expenditures     57.2        6.4            7.4
Dcternal Assistance (net)
MaNY, CREIT and PML=
1978           1979                      1980        1981        19N2        1983
(Billion Forints c tsLanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money              285.4          308.9                     342.1        365.1       387.6       407.3
BamK Credit to Piblic Sector       422.0          460.0                     490.4        529.5       555.2       576.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector       81.6           91.4                     107.2        119.9       133.6       153.6
(Percentages cr Inrdxc N.sters)
y and qasi M1L.1 as Z of QP         45.4           45.4                      47.4         46.8        45.7        45.4
Generai Price iaiEx 1975 = 100)    114.1          124.2                     135.6        141.8       151.5       163.3
Amual percentage changes in:
Genierat Price ILnex                 4.6            8.9                       9.1          4.6         6.9         7.8
sank credit to Public Sector        16.5            9.0                       6.6          8.0         4.9         3.9
Bank credit to private Sector       14.3           12.0                      17.3         11.8        11.4        15.0
i oustars duties and valuation differeaces %,hich are not allocated by sector and shw considerable fluctuation. There is thu a
distortion introduced irto the interpretation of data on stnstural change in the ecamFy.
/2  Excluding urallocated
Not applicable                                                                                   90M
. t available                                                                                    Jarcary 26, 1984
t4dbF



- 25 -
ANRX I
Page S of 5 pa
TWAfE PAWEIJIS AND CAPItAL FWS
BMAIC OF PFAIES
(Preliminary)       HANDSE EXPOTS (AVEt   197842)          Trade in            Trade in
1981       1982      1983                                                       Rubles          NRm-Rubles
(mila ics us$)                                                                          m
Exprts of Cods                 8,893.2   9,083.2   9,233.0               Fuels, electric energy                24.3      0.7    321.6       7.2
laports of Goods               8,854.3   8,575.0   8,619.0               Raw materials, semi-finished
Nmo-factor Services (Net)        136.8     107.0       79.0               produts, spare parts                842.8     23.1  1,560.6      35.1
Resource Gap (deficit  -)        175.7     615.2      693.0              Machinery, transport equipt,
other capital goods              1,603.4     43.9    553.6      12.5
Interest Payments (net)       -1,120.2    -962.0    -650.0              Manufactured consumer goods           649.5     17.8    670.8      15.1
Workers' PRittances                ..        ..         ..               Agricultural goods                   533.8     14.5  1,339.1      30.1
Otmer Factor Payments (net)        ..        ..         ..                  lbtal                           3,653.     100.0  4,445.7    100.0
Net Transfers                     47.2      63.0       55.0
Balance on Onrrent Aot          -897.3    -284.0       88.0           EMMAL tEBT, SEPITMER 30, 1983
US$ Bin.
Medium- and Ion,-bram apital                                             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                             8.944
Assets /1                    -L30      -180        -74                  (of which:  onertible CLrTercy)                        (7.367)
liabilities                 1,119       347        135                Nxi-Oaranteed Private Debt
Inflws                   (2,025)   (1,287)   (1,467)                   Total outstanding and disbursed                        8.944
CUtflxs                  (-96)    (-940)  (-1,132)
Short-Tema Capital                                                    IET SMiCE RAllO FOR 1983/4
Assets /1                     -87       -33         32                                                                             Z
Iiabilite  /2                -622      -966
Public Debt, incl. garateed                                19.0
other items n.e.].. /3             ..      235        315                lNGuaranteed Private Dabt
Increase in xeserves (-increase)  616      881          ..                  Total                                                  19.0
PATE OF EBXOWI
December 1983 (erd od                                                 IRn/IDA IEILW, (September 1983) (Mlm  US):
US g 1.00 = 45.2 faris
Ft. 1.00 = S0.022                                                                                                       IPR          MA
Catstanding and Disbursed                       0.6
1982 fennM                                                               ltdisbursed                                   238.8
us $ i.00o= 36.6 fDo"                                                   OCtstanding, incl. Ukdisbursed                 239.4
Et. 1.00 - $0.027
/1  ln-reserve assets; mstly export financing.
72  Iocludes errors and amssirs.
13 Use of IrF gesources.
*               7ZT  Ratio of total debt service on medium- and long-ters debt to total exports of goods and services. The debt service ratio of convertible currency debt
to exports of gooos and services in convertible currncy including short-term debt was 35%.
Not appiicable.
Not available.
Jarary 31, 19S4
1486E'



- 26 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
Statement of Bank Loans /a
(As of September 30, 1983)
US Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                   (less cancellations)
Number     Year    Borrower            Purpose                    Bank    Undisbursed
2316-EIU    1983    NBH /b          Grain Storage & Mech.         130.4        130.4
2317-HU    1983    HPR /c           Energy Conservation           109.0        109.0
B2-HU      1983    NBH              Grain Storage and Energy
Conservation                   30.0         30.0
B2-HU      1983    NBH              Grain Storage and Energy
Conservation                    8.8 /d      8.8
Total                                         278.2       278.2
of which has been paid
Total now held by Bank                        278.2
Total undisbursed                                          278.2
/a The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b National Bank of Hungary.
/c Hungarian People's Republic.
/d US$ equivalent of Japanese Yen denominated loan of 2.1 billion.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
HUNGARY
INDUSTRIAL EXPORT AND RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by country to prepare               7 months (September 1982
the project                                    to April 1983)
(b)   Agency which has prepared the project          National Bank of Hungary
(NBH)
(c)   Date of first presentation to the Bank         July, 1982
(d)   Date of first mission to consider the
project                                        September 26, 1982
(e)   Date of departure of appraisal mission         April 25, 1983
(f)   Date of completion of negotiations             January 27, 1984
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness                  June 30, 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a)   Conclusion of satisfactory arrangements with technical and economic
research institutes to assist NBH with appraisal and supervision of
subprojects (para. 51); and
(b)   Opening of a special account in NBH to facilitate the operation of a
revolving fund (para. 58).
2. Measures to be taken by the Borrower include:
(a)   Introducing the use of financial and economic rates of return and
the preparation of financial projections in its appraisal procedures
(para. 52);
(b)   Preparing and reviewing with the Bank by October 31, 1984 an
operational manual for comprehensive project appraisal and
supervision and its subsequent adoption within 3 months thereafter
(para. 52); and
(c)   Reviewing with the Bank by not later than June 30, 1986 the
experience gained under the above system and examining the
feasibility of extending the system to all industrial projects
financed by NBH (para. 52).
3. The Guarantor will complete and review with the Bank by March 31, 1985 the
subsector studies financed under the project (para. 54).



I



IBRD 16728
le                                                 '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6                                                  ee                       ECMFR 182
HUNGARY
I -OETERS a    0   0 3 0       50  00  70  00               Nation.1 copital
i,te,,ot ... I'-' 6-A'A, s
YUS OSLA VIA    V--LA                                                                                                                                                                                            ( 
--gy... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~o                                                                    UAI
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A 
t-f6nJ.
T~~~~~~ vn ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     000                                                                                                                                   TLY,   X       ROMANI              KE



i2-                                                                        C-     r



