CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2397 HU
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending Loan
Agreement
(Industrial Export and Restructuring Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
Dated January 1, 1987


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2397 HU
(AMENDMENT)
AGREEMENT AMENDING LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 1, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and NATIONAL BANK
OF HUNGARY (the Borrower).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement dated April 4, 1984 (the Loan
Agreement), between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has
agreed to make a loan to the Borrower as provided in the Loan
Agreement on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the HUNGARIAN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC (the Guarantor) and
the Borrower have requested and the Bank has agreed to introduce
certain amendments to the Loan Agreement in furtherance of the
Guarantor's policy of promoting a two tier competitive banking
system within its territory, all as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
Section 1.01. The words "the Borrower" in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement are deleted and the
words "a Participating Bank" are substituted therefor.
Section 1.02. The following new paragraphs (g) and (h) are
added after paragraph (f) of Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement:
"(g) 'Participating Bank' means any banking institution
which satisfies the conditions set forth in Part B of
Schedule 7 to this Agreement; and
(h)   'Subsidiary Financing Agreement' means any agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and a Par-
ticipating Bank pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to such Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreement."
Section 1.03. Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement is amended
as follows:


﻿-2-
(a) The words ", through the Participating Banks" are added
after the words "carry out Part A of the Project" in paragraph
(a) thereof; and
(b) The following new paragraphs (c) and (d) are added after
paragraph (b) thereof:
"(c) For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to the
Participating Banks the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to Cate-
gory (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement under Subsidiary
Financing Agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and the Participating Banks, under
terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank, and which shall include,
without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 7
to this Agreement.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Financing Agreements in such manner as
to protect the interest of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive any of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements,
or any provision thereof."
Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) of Section 3.02 of the Loan
Agreement is deleted.
Section 1.05. Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement is deleted
and the following new Section 3.04 is substituted therefor:
"Section 3.04. Without limitation on the provisions of
paiagraph (a) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall supervise and monitor the carrying out by
the Participating Banks of their respective Subsidiary
Financing Agreements in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank."
Section 1.06. The words "Sub-loans" in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of Section 4.03 of the Loan Agreement are deleted and the
words "Subsidiary Financing Agreements" are substituted therefor.


﻿-3-
Section 1.07. In Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement: (a) the
words "event is" are deleted and the words "events are" are sub-
stituted therefor; (b) the words "thereof, namely, that" are
deleted and the words "thereof: (a) that" are substituted there-
for; and (c) the words "under this Agreement" are deleted and the
words "under this Agreement; and (b) that any of the Partici-
pating Banks shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement" is substi-
tuted therefor.
Section 1.08. In Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement: (a) the
words "event is" are deleted and the words "events are" are sub-
stituted therefor; (b) the words "thereof, namely, that" are
deleted and the words "thereof: (a) that" are substituted there-
for, and the words "in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur" are deleted and the words "in Section 5.01 (a) of this
Agreement shal] occur; and (b) that the event specified in Sec-
tion 5.01 (b) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Bank to the Borrower" are substituted therefor.
Section 1.09. Subparagraph (c) of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1
to the Loan Agreement is deleted and the following new subpara-
graph (c) is substituted therefor:
"(c) expenditures under Category (1) by a Beneficiary
under a Sub-loan made by a Participating Bank,
until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have
been received by the Bank that a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf
of, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and
such Participating Bank."
Section 1410. In Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (i) the
words "by the Borrower," in Part A are deleted and the words "the
financing, through the provision of loans, including Sub-loans,
by Participatiag Banks out of the proceeds of funds to be made
available to them by the Borrower, including those referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement," are substituted therefor,
and (ii) the words "pharmaceutical, foundry and forging and agri-
cultural machine industries" in Part C (1) are deleted and the
words "the industrial sector" are substituted therefor.
Section 1.11. Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is amended as
follows:


﻿(a)   in the opening paragraph thereof, the words "For the
purposes of Section 3.04 (a) of, and paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule
1 to, this Agreement, the Borrower" are deleted, and the words
"The Participating Banks" are substituted therefor;
(b) in paragraph 2 thereof the words ", comprising ten per-
cent (10%) to cover the related costs and twenty percent (20%) to
cover the foreign exchange risk under the Sub-loan" are deleted;
(c) in paragraph 5 (a) (ii) the word "Borrower" is deleted
and the words "Participating Bank" are substituted therefor; and
(d) in paragraph 6 thereof (i) the word "Borrower" as it
appears first in the the opening subparagraph is deleted and the
words "Participating Banks" are substituted therefor, and (ii)
the words "through the Participating Banks" are added after the
words "furnish to the Borrower" in subparagraphs (a) (vii), (a)
(viii) (C) and (a) (viii) (D), and (iii) the word "Borrower" as
it appears in two places in subparagraph (b) is deleted and the
words "Participating Banks" are substituted therefor.
Section 1.12. A new Schedule 7 as set forth in the Schedule
to this Amending Agreement is added after Schedule 6 to the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement, shall not b-come
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank shall have been
furnished to the Bank that: (a) Subsidiary Financing Agreements
have been executed on behalf of, and are legally binding upon,
the Borrower and Participating Banks to provide for the channel-
ing through such Participating Banks of all outstanding Sub-loans
made by the Borrower under the Loan Agreement; and (b) all agree-
ments providing for such Sub-loans have been amended to conform
to the provisions of this Amending Agreement.
Section 2.02. This Amending Agreement shall come into force
and effect on the date upon which the Bank dispatches to the Bor-
rower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required under
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.03. If this Amending Agreement shall not come into
force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Bank
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.      If
this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of
this Section, the Loan Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Amending
Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ V. N. Rajagopalan
Authorized Representative
NATIONAL BANK OF HUNGARY
By /s/ E. Bako
Authorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
SCHEDULJE 7
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
For the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, conclude
Subsidiary Financing Agreements with ParticIpating Banks on the
basis of the principal terms and conditions included in this
Schedule.
Part A:   Terms
1.    The aggregate amount to be made available by the Borrower
(the Subsidiary Financing) to each Participating Bank under its
respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be the equivalent
in the currency of the Guarantor (determined as of the respective
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so
withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and ser-
vices financed under Sub-loans made by such Participating Bank
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
2.   Each Subsidiary Financing shall: (a) be charged interest, on
the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding, at a rate
equal at least to (i) the rate of interest applicable from time
to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.07 of
this Agreement, and (ii) an additional charge equal to twenty
percent (20%) of the amounts payable pursuant to subparagraph (a)
(i) hereof; and (b) be repaid in accordance with an amortization
schedule pursuant to which each portion thereof utilized in the
making of a Sub-loan shall have a maturity calculated to conform
to the amortization schedule applicable to such Sub-loan.
Part B:   Conditions
A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with a
banking institution, duly established and operating under the
laws of the Guarantor, which the Borrower shall have determined,
on the basis of criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and the Bank
shall have agreed that such institution:


﻿-7-
(1)   has a sound financial structure and is in a position
and has undertaken tG maintain a satisfactory financial perfor-
mance;
(2) has, or will have prior to the making of any Sub-loan,
and has undertaken to maintain the capacity, organization, opera-
tional plans and lending policies, management and staff required
to enable it effectively to:
(a) appraise the financial and economic       feasibility  of
Investment Projects and make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries
on the basis of the criteria and on the terms and con-
ditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(b) supervise and monttor the execution by Beneficiaries of
Investment Projects in accordance with policies and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
and
(c) exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such a manner as to (i) protect its inter-
ests and the interests of the Bank and the borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations uinder its Subsidiary
Financing Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of
Part A of the Project; and
(3) has employed, if and as necessary, consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, to assist it in (a)
appraising the technical and market feasibility of Investment
Projects in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank and
the Borrower, and (b) supervising and monitoring Investment
Projects in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (2) (b)
hereof.


