Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19570-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 82.1 MILLION
(US$110 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 30, 2000
Health, Nutrition, Population Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 14, 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupee
Rs. 1= US$ 0.02292
US$ 1 = Rs. 43.6
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBO           Community-Based Organization
CHC           Community Health Center
CMO           Chief Medical Officer (District)
CMS           Chief Medical Superintendant
DOMHFW        Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare
EA            Environmnental Assessment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
GOI           Government of India
GOUP          Government of Uttar Pradesh
HIV/AIDS    Human Inmunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
HMIS          Health Management Information System
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IEC           Information, Education and Communication
MCH           Maternal and Child Health
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHFW         Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
PHC           Primary Health Center
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMR           Project Management Report
PMU           Project Management Unit
SA            Special Account
SC/STs        Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes
SMB           Strategic Management Board
SSG           Strategy Support Group
UP            Uttar Pradesh
UPHSDP        Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
WDR           World Development Report
Vice President:   Meiko Nishimnzu
Country Director:   Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:    Richard L. Skolnik
India HNP Team Leader:   Tawhid Nawaz
Task Team Leader:    David H. Peters



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH HEALTH SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  5
C. Project Description Sumuary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      14
5. Environment                                                                        16
6. Social                                                                             17
7. Safeguard Policy                                                                   19
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     19
2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     20



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            20
2. Other                                                                              21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          22
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         22
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          23
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             28
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         36
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                               37
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     57
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  59
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            63
Annex 11: Uttar Pradesh Health Sector Development Policy: Policy Matrix                  65
Annex 12: India State Health Systems Development Projects: Summary of Lessons Learned    68
and their Inplications
MAP(S)
Uttar Pradesh



INDIA
Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASHP
Date: March 30, 2000                             Team Leader: David H. Peters
Country Manager/Director: Edwin R. Lim           Sector Manager/Director: Richard L. Skolnik
Project ID: P050657                               Sector(s): HY - Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment & Maintenance   Theme(s):
Loan (SIM)
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
El Loan        1 Credit        O Grant         El Guarantee    a Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 110 (SDR 82.1 million)
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: Not to exceed 1/2 of                  Service charge: 0.75%
1% per annum
Pinaning- Plan:  $Sourwe                   _oI                                     ;::T'
Government                                                    17.58           0.00         17.58
IBRD
IDA                                                           84.34          25.66        110.00
Total:                                                       101.92          25.66        127.58
Borrower: INDIA, ACTING BY ITS PRESIDENT
Responsible agency: DEPARTMENT OF MEDICAL, HEALTH & FAMILY WELFARE, GOUP
Address: Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare, Government of Uttar Pradesh
Contact Person: Mr. Jagan Mathews, Project Director and ex-officio Secretary
Tel: 91 522 238312                Fax: 91 522 239127               Email: N/A
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
F-Y         22001        2002        2003       2004        205 
Annual     7.1          14.4        32.0        33.7       22.8
Cumulative     7.1         21.5        53.5        87.2       110.0
Project implementation period: FY2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
XDS PAD am: R .V Ma, 20O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
To establish a well managed health system in Uttar Pradesh which delivers more effective services through
policy reform, institutional and human resource development, and investment in health services.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.1 Improved health facility quality and efficiency, as measured at project facilities by: (a) increased
outpatient treatments overall, by the poor, and by women: (b) increased hospital admissions overall, by the
poor, and by women; (c) increased hospital bed occupancy rates; (d) increased institutional deliveries; (e)
increased patient satisfaction overall, among the poor, and among women; and (f) increased numbers of
appropriate referrals at CHCs and Combined/District Hospitals from PHCs.
2. l.a Increasing portion of GOUP revenue budget spent on health sector (plan and non-plan).
2.1 .b Increasing shares of public sector health recurrent expenditures spent on non-wage operating
expenditures.
Annex 2, Table 1 describes baseline and target levels for the key performance indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17241-IN                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/15/98
Board Discussion of the last full CAS (Report No. 17241-IN) was on January 15, 1998; the latest Board
Discussion of the CAS Progress Report (Report No. R99-12, IDA/R99-10) was on February 18, 1999.
The CAS places a high priority on providing assistance to reforming states. Because of Uttar Pradesh's
(UP) irnportant position in India for an overall strategy to reduce poverty, and because of the Government
of Uttar Pradesh's (GOUP) demonstrated interest in undertaking broader fiscal, govemance, and sectoral
reforms, a State Assistance Strategy (SAS) has been adopted with the Bank. The SAS emphasizes
comprehensive but phased reforms across sectors, with an early emphasis on large fiscal gains and human
capital investment. The health, nutrition, and population sector is central to this strategy that seeks to
reduce poverty, enable people to develop to their full potential, and participate in a productive workforce.
This health sector project is designed to mutually reinforce the cross-sectoral reformns, and lead to the
development of a modem and accountable health system that provides tangible benefits to UP and the poor
in particular.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The health sector in UP is one of the most vulnerable in India. UP is the most populous Indian state (160
million population) and has the worst human development index among Indian states (0.07), largely
because of grinding poverty (42% rural poverty headcount ratio), widespread illiteracy (70% female
illiteracy in 1993) and devastating health indicators. The Registrar General estimated that infant mortality
was 85 deaths per 1,000 births and that the total fertility rate was 4.8 births in 1997. Major sector reform
is needed, but the environment for change is fragile. UP's public sector health services are extensive and
crumbling, and dependent on weak, fragmented, and overly centralized management. Health demands of
the population, including the poor, are largely being met through various parts of the private sector. The
private sector has been neglected by government, and is largely unregulated, placing the health of the public
at risk. Weaknesses in public administration and the law and order situation provide challenges for
sustainable reforms in the sector.
The main issues facing the health care delivery in the state are summarized below.
Financing Issues: Although health care expenditures are high (nearly 6% of GDP in India) and a major
financial burden to the poor, people get relatively poor health services in return. About 75-85% of health
expenditures are paid privately, largely out-of-pocket, on a fee-for-service basis, a system which proves to
be both inequitable and inefficient. Public spending on health in UP is low by international standards, and
in comparison to other Indian states; about 1% of State GDP. Since close to three-fourths of public sector
health financing is the responsibility of the states, the poor fiscal situation in UP has resulted in a resource
shortage for the public health sector. Of health resources allocated by the state, most is consumed by
salaries (77%), while the recurrent budgets for operations and maintenance are chronically under-funded.
Organization and Management of Health Systems: Structural problems within the public sector include
overly centralized planning and control of resources, high levels of political interference over staff postings
and transfers, segmentation of family welfare, nutrition, disease control programs and different levels of
care, and the neglect of approaches that would encourage the private sector to meet public policy
objectives. Public sector management relies on inflexible input-based planning and expenditure controls,
while managers have neither the authority nor timely information to make decisions in an accountable way.
Human resource systems are particularly under-developed, and offer little by way of monitoring, staff
incentives, or in-service training, leading to indiscipline and poor performance. Inappropriate skills mix is
a related critical issues, as there are large numbers of vacancies of key posts, particularly in rural areas
(only one third of posts for nurses and two-thirds of posts for doctors were filled prior to preparation of the
project). Although the private sector is the dominant group of providers of ambulatory and inpatient
services in UP, it is quite heterogeneous. It includes large and unknown numbers of unqualified
practitioners, practitioners of traditional medicine, not-for-profit and for-profit allopathic providers. The
private sector is weakly organized and has little accountability to the public or formal contact with the
public sector.
Delivery of Health Services: Health services are not keeping up with the changes in health conditions in
UP. UP has a large burden of communicable diseases, maternity-related illness, and malnutrition, while
entering an epidemiological transition with increasing non-commnunicable diseases and new health
problems. The new burdens of disease (e.g., cardiovascular diseases, HIV/AIDS, cancer) place greater
strains on a health system that has not been able to provide good access to quality health services for
pre-transition conditions of such a large population. The changing environment will require new, more
integrated approaches to managing health care across levels of care and types of services and providers.
Yet health services are largely under-utilized: public hospital bed occupancy averages 30% in UP, and is
- 3 -



estimated to be about 45% in the private sector. Public facilities are distributed throughout the state,
though private facilities are concentrated in urban areas. One reason for low utilization is that the quality
of services are poor. There is a lack of standards and quality assurance systems in both public and private
sectors. The public sector is further constrained by staffing limitations, particularly in poor and remote
areas that are also not served by the formal private sector, as well as by shortages in supervision,
maintenance, drugs and supplies. The private sector provides no information about its performance, and
has no systems for patient protection or fair pricing. There is little information about how private care is
delivered, though abuse of technology and therapeutics and complex kickback schemes among providers
(including those in the public sector) are conmnonly reported.
Use and Demand Issues. A largely illiterate public has poor understanding of behaviors which promote
good health, thus limiting their ability to make informed health decisions. Public expectations of health
services are low, and little is done to change these expectations. The poor in particular do not have
information or resources to obtain health care of good quality, and public systems have not responded to
focus on meeting their greater needs. Hospitalization itself is a significant cause of poverty. With limited
mechanisms to hold public and private providers accountable, the quality of services and satisfaction with
them remains low. Studies reveal that people are not satisfied with publicly or privately provided health
care. People are usually unable to distinguish between qualified and unqualified allopathic practitioners in
the private sector, though the greater availability and attention afforded them make them the preferred
choice for mnany health conditions (Rohde and Viswanathan 1996).
Government Strategy
The GOUP is developing a comprehensive approach to public sector reforms in the state. Cross cutting
reforms are planned or in progress in the areas of governance, fiscal management, civil service renewal, as
well as a number of key sectors, notably power, public enterprises, transport, irrigation, health and
education.
Although there is no consensus on a vision for the health sector in UP, one is beginning to emerge. In
drafting a holistic health strategy, the government has conmmitted itself to the following principles which
will help bring about a well managed health system in UP: improving the quality and efficiency of health
services; ensuring the poor have access to health services; improving linkages across levels of the health
system; developing partnerships with the private sector; increasing the accountability of health facility
performance while adding cost-recovery; and improving responsiveness to patients needs. By engaging
with the private sector, encouraging innovation and developing capacity in strategic management, the
GOUP is opening up to new contracting arrangements, payment mechanisms and accountabilities, as well
as the potential for pooling risks and integrating health care, all of which will be needed in a modem health
system.
At the national level, health is one of the six priority areas identified in the Ninth Plan (1997-2002), and
viewed by the GOI as critical for the sustainability of development and poverty alleviation in India. The
Ninth Plan emphasizes: integration of vertical health programs; better surveillance and control of
conununicable and non-conmunicable diseases; improved health management information systems;
strengthened logistics management; and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRls) involvement in health. More
recently, the Central Council of Health and Family Welfare has noted the importance of linking preventive
and promotive care with selective aspects of curative care which is provided at first referral hospitals.
Since the states are largely responsible for the financing and implementation of health programs, these
issues need to be addressed at the state level.
-4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Recognizing the centrality of governance issues in UP, the project is supplementing the cross-sectoral steps
taken by GOUP with a number of specific measures, including: independent monitoring of procurement
and financial management; independent monitoring of personnel transfers and discipline; independent
assessments of health facility performance; along with related initiatives for developing accountable
performance management and disseminating public information on these issues. Other sector issues being
addressed include:
Financing Issues: The GOUP has committed itself to increase its fiscal effort on health to come closer to
meeting basic health care needs of the people in UP. These measures include: (i) enhancing budgetary
allocations to the health sector; (ii) allocating increasing resources for drugs, essential supplies and
operations and maintenance (O&M); and (iii) raising supplementary funds through user charges, retaining
these revenues for use at the facility, and introducing fee exemptions for the poor. To begin to address the
questions of private financing, a forum has been established to develop public-private partnerships. It is
hoped that this will help to better harness private health expenditure on more effective health care, and to
improve accountability of private financing and delivery. Health insurance, which offers more equitable
and efficient financing options, remains a distant option given the large population who are a part of the
informal sector of the economy, the poor health information and management systems, and the lack of
organization of the private delivery system. As a result of the project, however, risk pooling of health
financing should become more feasible.
Organization and Management of Health Systems: The project proposes systemic, broad-based
approaches to address the numerous institutional problems faced at the first referral and community levels,
rather than providing ad hoc solutions. The establishment of a forum on public-private partnerships will
help to institutionalize relationships between the public and private sectors, and be used to develop
meaningful ways to assure quality and accountability. Systems to be strengthened include: strategic
management, manpower planning, performance appraisal, procurement of drugs and equipment, referral,
health management information system (HMIS), surveillance of major diseases, training systems, health
care waste management, and equipment management system. The project will help to reorganize the
DOMHFW by establishing five Regional Directorates to coordinate project implementation at the district
level and to monitor the delivery of services. The outmoded and disconnected management of district health
services and hospitals would be partly addressed through testing enhanced fmancial discretion within a
system of district based service improvement plans.
Delivery of Health Services: In preparation for the project, clinical and service norms in the public sector
have been rationalized, and a plan for a coherent system of service delivery from the block PHCs to
Community Health Centers (CHCs) to the district hospital prepared. A detailed mapping exercise was also
undertaken to identify the types of services to be provided at different health facilities across the state. A
moratorium is in place on the expansion of health services in the public sector, while the project focuses on
getting the existing health facilities and resources to function better. Poorer areas, and places under-served
by public or private services have been prioritized as places where facilities are to be strengthened, located
largely in Eastern Region, Bundelkhand, and Uttarkhand, and in the poorer districts in Central and Western
Regions. For the poorest and most under-served sections of society, innovative proposals that encourage
partnerships with private, traditional, and unqualified practitioners are being pursued. The government is
committed to actively engaging the private sector in health care delivery where possible, especially with
regard to contracting out support services. A number of NGOs are active in parts of the state, and the
project would seek their participation in project activities in areas where they have a comparative
advantage at the community level.
-5 -



Use and Demand Factors: The project will address these factors through several mechanisms. Following
up on a baseline survey, the project will carefully monitor who utilizes health services, how satisfied users
are, and how funds are used at health facilities as a way of influencing service delivery. Information will
be made public on these issues, as well as on the performance of health facilities. Information, education,
and communications strategies will be directed at behavior changes that result in the public, and the poor
and women in particular, being able to demand better health services and better manage their own health.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
x'd~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa  flcn X                                             Ln
1. Policy Reforms, Management      Health              30.23       23.7      25.99      23.6
Development, & Institutional
Strengthening
2. Improving Health Service Quality &  Health          97.35       76.3      84.01      76.4
Access
Total Project Costs                T  127.58      100.0    110.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                |  127.58       100.0    110.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Policy reforms:
(a) Increasing the share of public expenditures on health, with greater allocations to non-wage recurrent
items;
(b) Making explicit public-private partnerships to improve service delivery and financing, including a
policy and strategy for working with and effectively regulating the private sector;
(c) Revising the state essential drug policy to promote affordable, safe and rational use of drugs;
(d) Introducing monitoring and reporting on personnel transfers and discipline to reinforce existing rules;
and
(e) Improving the basis for resource allocation, fmnancial information, and use of user charges to improve
cost recovery, accountability, and financial protection for the poor at CHCs and hospitals.
Institutional reforms:
(a) Building a capacity for policy analysis and development in the Department, in part through the
establishment of a Strategic Management Board and Strategy Support Group;
(b) Developing a system for strengthening performance and accountability of public services in health;
(c) Establishing a public-private forum as a mechanism to develop the private sector in a way that benefits
the public;
(d) Developing district health planning and management systems, including delegating financial authority;
(e) Strengthening state planning, budgeting, and financial management systems;
(i) Developing systems for increasing the social accountability of health services, including
communication to facilitate health management at the facility and community levels;
-6-



(g) Developing health management systems for: quality assurance approaches, health management
information, human resource management, disease surveillance and control, hospital equipment
management and maintenance systems, and hospital waste management;
(h) Establishing an independent State Drug Control Administration to assure the quality of
pharmaceuticals in the state in a transparent and efficient manner; and
(i) Developing building and equipment maintenance systems.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefit of the proposed project is to help establish an effective and sustainable health system in
UP, to better meet the health needs of the state's population. In the public sector where physical
rehabilitation is planned, an estimated 11 million people will receive treatment as outpatients per year and
600,000 inpatients per year will benefit from improved services. The planned improvements in existing
facilities should increase the numbers receiving services by 2 million outpatients per year and 130,000
inpatients per year. These improvements are being targeted to improve quality and access of curative and
preventive health services for the poorest segments of UP, for women, and for remote, under-served
populations. Improving the health of the poor and the sick will improve their quality of life and
productivity. Since the cost of illness is a major cause of poverty, there are also direct gains in reducing
poverty. A focus on women's health services is needed not only to the relative neglect of women's health,
but because it is an opportunity to help break the cycle of poor maternal and child health.
The policy reforms implemented under the project will improve the environment to increase the
effectiveness of the public and private sectors. Rationalizing health services should strearmline their
delivery and yield resources for redirection. Technical improvements and an emphasis on maintenance will
increase the sustainability, and integrating care, including developing referral systems, should improve
patient satisfaction and quality of care. Strengthening management systems, rehabilitating equipment, and
public health interventions will benefit the entire population using public services. By improving
accountability and standards for care in the private sector, the scope for increasing the number of
beneficiaries will be even greater than those using public facilities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a five year period by the GOUP, and utilize the standard onlending
arrangements from the GOI to the state. At the top of the organizational structure is a Project Governing
Board, which will provide overall direction to the project. It is chaired by the Chief Secretary and includes
other Principal Secretaries and a representative from GOI. A Project Steering Committee, led by the
Principal Secretary Health and including Departmental Directors and the Project administrative team, will
be responsible for implementation and management of the project, and coordinating with the Medical,
Health and Family Welfare Departments.
A Project Management Unit (PMU) placed in the DOMHFW will be responsible for day to day project
implementation and coordination. The PMU is comprised of a central body linked to five regional offices.
The central unit will be led by a senior project administrator from the Indian Administrative Service with
eight cells having responsibilities for specific areas of work in the project. To facilitate procurement
activities, one procurement agency for civil works and another for goods is being hired, and a dedicated
engineering wing within the PMU is being established (see Annex 6 for details). Each of the five regions
will be headed by a Regional Director responsible for coordinating project activities at district level. The
software components, such as those dealing with quality of care, disease surveillance, and communications,
will be designed and implemented through the PMU with staff seconded from the Directorate or extemally
appointed. After the activities have been designed, tested, and evaluated, the staff and responsibilities for
- 7 -



the activities would be merged back into the Directorate. Outside the PMU, independent assessors will
play a prominent role in the monitoring of the project, including the monitoring of project.performance,
evaluation of pilot studies, the review of personnel management, procurement processes, and financial
management controls, and the annual financial audit.
Financial management arrangements for the project include the following features (details are described in
Annex 6): (a) a Financial Controller (a Chartered Accountant) has been appointed to head the Finance
Unit in the PMU; (b) a comprehensive Financial Management System Manual has been prepared, and an
agreed action plan to computerize the system and train staff is under implementation; (c) quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMR) using agreed formats will be prepared from the initiation of the project; (d)
once the computerized financial management system is stabilized and is assessed by the Bank for it's
robustness, the switch over to the PMR-based disbursement is planned by 31 December 2001; (e) project
financial statements will be audited annually by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India in addition to
periodic internal audits by a private firm of chartered accountants.
Some reorganization of existing institutional structures within the DOMHFW would also be supported.
The Information, Education and Communications Bureau and Health Education Bureau would be
integrated, and the communicable disease responsibilities would be re-aligned into a single unit, rather than
dividing up each of the centrally sponsored programs. Similarly, the numerous health societies would be
merged as appropriate. Other aspects of reorganization, such as the establishment of regional offices,
changed financial delegation at the district level, are being tested through the project. Each regional office
would have multi-disciplinary expertise to help district managers and staff to implement the various project
sub-components. The 19 Divisional offices will be phased out and the mid-term evaluation of the regional
units will be used to inform how the transition will be completed. At the district level, responsibilities are
being changed to place the district Chief Medical Officer in charge of all public sector health services in the
district, while the Chief Medical Superintendents would be placed in charge of all inpatient facilities
(district hospitals and CHCs) in the district. A project officer would be provided from existing staff in each
district to coordinate project supported activities within each district.
A Strategic Management Board, headed by the Director General, and including senior line managers of the
Directorate and representatives of the private sector and the conmmunity, would be established to build
in-house competency for formulating and reviewing strategies in the state. A separate Strategic Support
Group would also be established to provide technical and research support to the Board. They would
undertake or contract analytic work, and develop and assess policy proposals for the DOMHFW. The
Principal Secretary would formulate policies based on recommendations of the Board, and place them
before Government for approval.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Because the GOUP has initiated a comprehensive approach to reforms across the state, there is now an
opportunity to address systemic reforms in the health sector. The needs of the sector in UP are much larger
and more complex than in the six other states with Health Systems Development Projects, so a longer term
approach is needed, along with more opportunity for experimentation and learning. The proposed approach
also links the project activities with the broader sectoral issues, particularly in areas of improved
governance, planning, and financial management. Because of severe fiscal constraints, renovation rather
than expansion of facilities is being pursued, with additional staff and other incremental recurrent costs
reduced to a minimum. Some of the other alternatives considered include:
-8 -



(a) Maintain the status quo. Retaining the current program would mean that there would.be no institutional
strengthening and policy development in the health sector, and demands from poorer sections of society
would remain unmet. It is unlikely that steps to improve partnerships and clarify roles between the public
and private sector would occur in the absence of the project. As a result, the private sector would continue
to be a preferred, but inequitable, inefficient, and frequently dangerous provider to the public;
(b) Drop out of public sector first referral care. This was rejected because: (i) sector work and other
studies show that the poor depend on public hospitals for care, and that private hospitals cater to urban and
wealthier patients, are costly, and provide poor services to those without means; (ii) public hospitals
provide critical referral care to national public health programs and ambulatory services, whereas the
private sector provides mainly individual, curative care and does not perform public health functions; and
(iii) it would not be possible to address the systemic issues or put in place a coherent referral systems
without public hospitals due to individual-based care and organization of the private sector;
(c) Expand the number of public hospital facilities. Since most public hospitals have under-utilized
inpatient capacity, there is little rationale in expansion before trying to get existing facilities to work better;
(d) Focus on primary level of care. A number of other disease control and family welfare projects
supported by IDA are already targeting investments at the primary level and addressing some of the critical
needs related to staffing, drugs and medicine and infrastructure. Moreover, the epidemiological profile of
disease indicates that a sustainable health system will need to combine elements of public health and basic
clinical services in order to provide adequate and necessary health care services. Investments at the
primary level alone will not be effective in providing these basic health services without the vital support at
the first referral level, which confers credibility to the public health system. This is especially true for
critical programs such as safe motherhood and child health;
(e) Focus on disease specific priorities only. There are already a number of categorical health programs in
India. The main challenge is to provide the basic software and infrastructure needed by each of these
priority programs, and to overcome the current segmentation of planning and delivery in a cohesive
manner;
(f) Focus on selected parts of the state. While there is an initial focus on renovating facilities in
under-served areas of the state, implementing exclusively in selected parts of the state would be politically
unfeasible, and would miss the opportunity to address key state-wide policy issues. Experience in the five
states where Health Systems Development Projects are currently being implemented indicates that the
broad-based approach is the appropriate mechanism to address systemic health sector issues. Varying
needs of different parts of the state would be addressed through decentralized planning and management
arrangements at the five regional levels, which can also encourage healthy competition between the
districts; and
(g) Establish a health fund to finance proposals to provide health services. A $325 million USAID project
already uses a health fund in UP, with considerable overhead costs. Whereas a fund does offer the
potential of increasing competition and innovation, a fund created in the current environment would do little
to develop systems or address the underlying institutional reforms that are needed, and risks being
unsustainable and piece-meal. Nonetheless, a fund mechanism will be used to pilot innovations,
particularly to address the needs of under-served populations.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector lisse                                                   (PProect  (SRRat ings  
-_____________________________    __ ___________________             (B ank-inanc :d    ro jects    only
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Second National HIV/AIDS            S               S
Control
National Leprosy Elimination         S              S
Cataract Blindness Control          S               S
Andhra Pradesh First Referral       HS              S
Health System
State Health Systems                S               S
Development II
Orissa Health Systems               S               S
Development
Maharashtra Health Systems          S               S
Development
Malaria Control                     S               S
Reproductive and Child Health       S               S
Tuberculosis Control                S               S
Women and Child Development         S               S
Other development agencies :
USAID (ongoing)                       inovations in Family Planning
Services
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 10-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of this project takes into account key lessons learned from Operations Evaluation Departmnent
(OED) evaluations, international experience, other social sector projects in India, and specifically the four
State Health Systems Development Projects under implementation in six states. Key recommendations
from the OED evaluations are: place greater emphasis on institutional development and governance issues
in order to make a greater impact on development (1998 Annual Review of Development Effectiveness.
November 1998); engage in policy development and debate; work on developing institutional capacity at
the state level; tackle the personnel problems and incentives structures in the sector; support integration of
the referral system; engage the private sector; and introduce performance-based budgeting (Case Studv of
World Bank Activities in the Health Sector in India, June 1999). The key lessons from international
experience are: a broad sectoral approach within a supportive policy environment produces significant
positive results and benefits; and a limited package of public health measures and essential clinical
interventions should be a top priority for government finance (WDR, 1993). This project, in recognizing
the specific administrative and socio-technical issues, and epidemiological profile in UP, would support
public health and essential clinical services directly, or by improving coordination where they are financed
from other sources. Among the most important lessons from experience with other social sector
projects in India are: (i) the need to ensure timely and adequate flow of funds to the project entity; (ii) the
need for advanced preparation of hardware and software aspects of the project prior to approval; (iii) the
need to speed up implementation and strengthen supervision by strengthening the implementation capacity
of the line agency to resolve problems in procurement and disbursement early in the project cycle, and
develop detailed implementation plans prior to appraisal; and (iv) the need to ensure maintenance of
buildings and equipment through provision of adequate resources for O&M, increasing capacity for
maintenance, and through provision of training. Lessons from the implementation of the recent State
Health Systems Development projects are: (i) the importance of maintaining continuity in project
management; (ii) the importance of empowering the Project Management Unit and the Project Manager
appropriately; (iii) the importance of strengthening management aspects by providing greater autonomy
with regard to management and supervision, adequate staffing of key project management personnel and
strengthening management procedures; (iv) the benefits gained from investing in a program of refurbishing
existing equipment; and (v) the importance of paying attention to the quality aspects of the project. A
sunmmary of lessons learned by mid-term of the State Health Systems Development Project II is shown in
Annex 12.
- 11 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
UP has been selected for this project partly because of the commitment of the state goverinment to
undertake a project of this type and magnitude as part of a statewide reform effort that is in its development
stages. The GOUP has initiated a broad series of public sector reforms, and strengthened its partnership
with the Bank in the process. Critical decisions made in public expenditure management and power sector
policy and are beginning to be implemented, while anti-corruption strategies and plans for renewal of civil
service are being developed. Significant change in the health sector is in many respects dependent on the
success of these broader reforms. There are also signs of strong commitment to undertake a program of
health sector development which would be supported by the proposed project. The DOMHFW has
initiated a Holistic Health Approach, which has begun a process of making hospitals more accountable for
their performance. The GOUP has submitted a letter of Health Sector Development Policy to further
articulate its policy commitments during the project (Annex 1 1), and appointed a senior Project Director to
oversee preparation of the project. Although overall allocations have not increased to the health sector this
year, there has been an increase in allocation to pharmaceuticals, and a policy for user fees with
exemptions to the poor has been developed. The DOMHFW has filled some important staffing gaps, using
transparent test criteria for selection. Despite these indications, there are many interest groups in the health
sector in UP, even within government, which are unlikely to fully embrace all of the proposed reforms.
There is also little experience with many of the reform issues, such as dealing with the private sector, so
that a cautious and incremental approach is being adopted. Nonetheless, a public-private forum was
initiated during the project preparation period to begin these reforms.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank involvement is helping to link the health sector with a broader set of cross-cutting and sectoral
reforms in UP, which rely in part upon on Bank financing and support. The Bank's involvement is helping
to facilitate the introduction of new ideas and ways of doing business in the health sector, such as the
collaboration with the private sector, quality assurance approaches, a focus on the poor, and mechanisms to
improve transparency and accountability. In addition to providing much needed financing to the state
health sector, the Bank also brings in considerable experience in state health systems development in India
and internationally, and is facilitating the exchange of ideas and experiences with those implementing health
sector reforms elsewhere.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Project preparation has gained from economic and financial analysis conducted during project preparation
and from recent and ongoing sector work. Analysis included: (i) state expenditure review; (ii) assessment
of cost-recovery potential; (iii) benefit-incidence analysis; (iv) analysis of private providers and
public-private collaboration; and (v) burden of disease and cost-effectiveness analysis.
In addition to imnproving efficiency of resource use and the equity performance in the sector, UPHSDP is
designed to foster the appropriate roles for the public and private sectors in health. On policy and
regulation, the project supports developing the capacity for the public sector to design and implement
policy reforms and regulate the private sector. On financing, the project facilitates shifting public
resources from financing private goods with limited social externalities and cost-effectiveness to financing
- 12-



services with public good characteristics, strong externalities and high cost-effectiveness. Moreover,
improved resource targeting and selectivity in investments are designed to improve equity, in access and use
of services at public facilities. The project also explores the use of NGOs to reach under-served groups.
And finally, on advocacy and promotion, the project supports capacity development for the public sector to
promote health-related activities by households and other mrinistries and sectors (water, sanitation, and
education). IEC activities are at the heart of imnproving the poverty performance of the sector since
knowledge is an important determinant of both the use of services by the poor and other health-related
household action.
The project helps in developing the role of the private sector for health in UP. Specifically, this is done by:
(i) using public-private forums for dialogue and the development of a cormmon agenda; (ii) developing
legislation (with the active participation of the private sector) for the regulation of the whole sector; (iii)
financing innovative schemes for the use of the voluntary sector to extend the reach of health services to
under-served and predominantly poor areas; (iv) using the private sector through contractual arrangements
to develop and deliver training and human power development as well as contractual arrangements for
non-medical services such as laundry and transportation; and (v) strengthening partnerships through
coordinated referral systems and using private laboratory and diagnostic services in public facilities.
Targeting of Resources for Equity and Efficiency Improvements. The state public expenditure review,
the benefit incidence study, and the beneficiary needs assessment point to a number of resource allocation
policies that will be implemented in this project in order to irnprove equity through better targeting:
increasing (i) investments in under-served areas; (ii) allocations to non-salary recurrent expenditures; (iii)
allocations to advocacy and behavior change conumunications; and (iv) monitoring of who is benefiting
from public services.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
A key objective of the project is to improve the access to quality health care services. A necessary
condition for the achievernent of this objective is increasing spending on specific investments and at the
appropriate levels of care delivery. GOUP will achieve this by: (i) increasing the share of health sector
allocations within the overall budget and step up the allocations progressively; (ii) allocating resources to
non-salary items and primary and secondary levels; and (iii) raising supplementary funds through user
charges.
GOUP Contributions. Trend analysis in the expenditure review shows a state commitmnent to health and
family welfare stagnant over the last ten years at about four percent of state expenditures and one percent
of state GDP. The GOUP has committed to progressively increase allocation to health, and to increasing
allocations to non-wage recurrent items. The GOUP is commritted to ensuring that IDA fimds will not
substitute for state funds during the lifetime of the project. It is important to note that the high levels of
debt in UP State finances pose an important risk to this commitment to health spending.
Cost-Recovery and Retention. The analysis of cost recovery in UP shows that the level of user charges is
currently low and resources are not re-cycled into the health system. Previous analysis and experience
from health systems projects in other states has shown that revenues from user charges significantly
augment non-salary recurrent expenditures. An important element of the reforms in this project would
focus on developing and implementing a cost-recovery scheme that would provide needed resources for the
sector, improve efficiency of use of facilities and the referral systern, and do not hurt the poor. The GOUP
has developed an strong exemption strategy to protect vulnerable groups and has introduced mechanisms to
retain and recycle funds at the facility level.
-13-



Fiscal Impact:
The Public Sector Health Expenditure Analysis reviews the fiscal situation in Uttar Pradesh, analyzing past
trends in selected aspects of public fnance and expenditures on health and family welfare. Incremental and
annual recurrent costs including contingencies at project completion are expected to be about Rs. 250
million. Current expenditure on Health and Farnily Welfare is about Rs. 13,000 million. Assuming
continuation of past trends in overall expenditures, this would amount to about Rs. 16,900 million in the
year following the first phase of the credit. Incremental recurrent costs of the project would amount to
1.5% of total revenue expenditures for DOHFW. The incremental recurrent costs of the project imply an
increased share for health of total government expenditures of about 4%. The GOUP would meet the
incremental recurrent cost needs by: (i) enhancing contribution to the health budget; (ii) increasing the
share of resources to the primary and secondary levels of care; and (iii) raising supplementary funds
through user charges. Important lessons from other health projects in India have been incorporated in the
design of this project. These include: (i) developing a realistic financing plan; (ii) protecting recurrent cost
funding; (iii) ensuring absorptive capacity for new spending; and (iv) improving readiness by early
preparation of procurement plans.
3. Technical:
The technical analyses included an exercise to better rationalize the types of services to be provided at
different levels, which has led to new clinical and referral protocols, and new norms for required functional
space, equipment, diagnostics, and manpower. Information systems are being developed to monitor the
implementation of these norms, and a baseline study on the perfonnance of health facilities has been done.
These approaches will not only save on manpower and improve the mix of skills available, but also point
the way toward efficient management of resources and clear performance monitoring. The project would
link the different layers of the health delivery system through a referral mechanism in which the norms of
service have been clearly defined. This process, originated with a detailed mapping exercise, has been
undertaken to identify the types of services to be provided at different facilities, taking into account the
epidemiological profile, utilization rates, availability of public and private sector providers, and current
condition of facilities. There are also many information, education and communications activities being
conducted in the state. The integration of the IEC programs will now allow for a more coherent and
strategic approach. Quality assurance systems, disease surveillance and control, and drug quality control
measures are also being implemented in a phased manner to coincide with improving implementation
capacity and the need to learn by experience, as well as taking the private sector into account for the first
time.
4. Institutional:
The approach adopted for the institutional assessment was to examine first how the DOMHFW is
responding to its external environment and then to seek explanations for its current performance. The
external environrment presents both opportunities and threats for the Department. There exist opportunities
for improving the health of the population by forging partnerships with a rapidly expanding private sector
and by enhancing service quality in response to higher public expectations. Further, the gradual
devolution of government services to elected Panchayat bodies represents a clear opportunity for the
Department to improve the quality of government health services by making them more responsive to the
needs of local communities. Even the fiscal crisis facing the State Government can be viewed as presenting
a challenge for the Department to improve is internal efficiency. The main threats stem from: (a)
continued political interference; (b) Government's control-oriented systems for financial and personnel
- 14 -



management; and (c) the potential negative impact of downsizing on staffing in rural areas. These factors
constrain the ability of the Department to manage its own affairs in order to provide better services.
The Department has done very little to respond to these external influences. Operational performance is
declining as evidenced by poor utilization of available services and facilities. The Department does not
routinely measure patient satisfaction and many senior managers are not convinced of the utility of such
surveys. Finally, the Department has yet to recognize the importance of a motivated and committed
workforce to improving service effectiveness and efficiency. A recently administered employee
questionnaire identified the lack of opportunities for individual and career development as key concerns.
Key organizational design features were examined in order to explain the reasons behind the Department's
current performance. Some of the key issues which need to be addressed include the following: (i)
departmental managers, especially at district and divisional levels, give very little attention to managing
performance; (ii) there is a reluctance to delegate operational authority from headquarters (the prevailing
view of "decentralization" in the DOMHFW involves a tightening of control at the regional level without
corresponding autonomy at the district level); (iii) serious staff/skill mismatches occur at the facility level
and disadvantaged areas find it difficult to attract qualified staff, especially doctors; (iv) the performance
appraisal system does not require the supervisor to provide any feedback to the individual about his
performance unless that feedback is negative; (v) except for the prime postings, there are few rewards for
good perfornance available to the Department; (vi) the present methods for budgeting and expenditure
control aim to control inputs directly and pernit little managerial discretion over spending; and (vii)
strategic thinking is relatively undeveloped at the central level since senior managers have not been actively
encouraged to demonstrate their leadership skills.
It is too simplistic to attempt to correct these weaknesses on their own, since they are only symptoms of a
deeper organizational malaise. These systemic problems include the unwritten norms governing behavior
and the wider negative impacts of corruption and political interference. Since the breadth and depth of the
management challenge facing the Department is a daunting one, it will be important to tackle some of the
underlying problems first and to pursue change in a sequenced manner. Critical change levers that have
been identified with the potential to tackle the systemic problems include: (a) leadership development
through the establishment of an effective Strategic Management Board; (b) strengthened staff appraisal and
management information systems to drive performance improvements throughout the system; and (c) using
the transfer system as a way to reward performance, bolstered by independent monitoring to reduce the
incidence of political transfers and to provide some measure of protection to risk-takers.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Project Management Unit, Department of Medical, Health and Famnily Welfare, Government of Uttar
Pradesh
4.2 Project management:
Based partly on lessons learned from similar projects in other states, and on assessment of the situation in
UP, it is deemed critical that project management has good linkages to both the bureaucratic and technical
wings of the DOMHFW. In addition to having a senior IAS administrator and clear roles for Directorate
managers, smooth project implementation will require sufficient skills for civil works management,
procurement, and financial management in the project units. Yet a single centralized project management
unit is unlikely to work well in such a large and diverse state. Furthermore, a balance between management
of hardware components with software issues and dealing with the private sector is needed. The measures
to deal with these issues include: (i) reorganizing the DOMHFW by establishing five Regional Directorates
to implement the project; and (ii) empowering the Directorates in the implementation of civil works
- 15-



programs, drug and equipment procurement and management, workforce issues and financial management.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Because of limited capacity to undertake the procurement needed for the project, the PMU will be
strengthened by the addition of one procurement agency for goods and services, and another for civil works,
along with additional technical staff for supervision of civil works and equipment management. The
current information system for monitoring procurement and contracts is also inadequate, so that a
computerized procurement information system is being introduced, and training in procurement planned.
To further enhance efficiency and transparency, an annual independent monitoring of procurement
activities is provided for under the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Although the DOMHFW operates a budgeting and accounting systems that produces timely submission of
accounts from PHCs and CHCs to the district and state, its effectiveness is constrained by a focus on book
keeping and transactional controls rather than using financial management infonnation for decision making,
and reliance on manual systems. In response to this, a substantial effort is going into the development of
financial management capability under the project, that includes steps to: (a) strengthen staffing and
training; (b) analyze financial information for decision making; (c) ensure transparency of project
operations and establishment of clear fnancial policies and procedures; (d) audit the financial management
system in a comprehensive manner; (e) monitor physical progress of the project; and (f) computerize the
financial management system. At the time of Negotiations, a Financial Management System Manual has
been prepared with the assistance of external consultants, and a qualified Financial Controller has been
appointed.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The management of health care waste is an important element in improving the quality of health care in the
project. In preparing the Project Implementation Plan, a consulting fimn assisted the GOUP in preparing its
Hospital Waste Management Assessment and Plan, using lessons learned from other State Health Sector
Development Projects. Because of their attention to waste management issues, the project states are the
forefront of the implementation of recent GOI legislation on regulation of biomedical waste.
Each of the project hospitals in UP are expected to generate hospital waste, most of which would be of
non-hazardous nature. Nonetheless, there are risks to hospital staff and those scavenging waste from
improper handling of waste, particularly from infection. A study in Mumbai has shown that on average,
1. 1 Kg per bed per day of hospital waste is produced in a hospital, of which 0.5 Kg is infectious. It is
estimated that a rural hospital in India produces less than 0.1 Kg of infectious waste per bed per day. While
the project will not increase the number of hospital beds, improvements in services will increase their
utilization, and thus the amount of hospital waste generated.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The GOI legislation on biomedical waste is fully addressed by the GOUP Hospital Waste Management
Assessment and Plan, and covers all aspects relating to segregation, packaging, transportation, storage,
treatment and disposal of hospital waste. The plan also builds upon the successes achieved in other State
Health System Development projects, and includes the following steps: (a) setting up of the authority and
an advisory committee; (b) introduction of immediate measures like separation of sharps and infectious
waste, securing on-site storage to reduce scavenging at facility level, and orientation programs for hospital
staff; (c) phased implementation of a comprehensive action plan involving waste minimnization, segregation,
- 16-



packaging, storage, and treatment and disposal (on-site and otherwise) in project hospitals; (d)
implementation of full training program; and (e) monitoring of the system through the annual reports,
required to be submitted by all facilities.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January 19, 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Government of India passed legislation on the management of hospital waste after a lengthy public
discourse involving NGOs, health care providers, and consumer organizations. This project is following up
on these processes with implementation of the resultant legislation. During preparation of the project, users
of health facilities in UP were also surveyed concerning their opinions on the quality of hospital services,
including questions of hospital waste and cleanliness. The lack of cleanliness around hospitals and the need
for better waste management were identified as important areas for improving the quality of services.
Informal discussions with environmental NGOs based in India have also continued, particularly since
several of them have been contracted to provide training and services for hospital waste management during
the implementation of the State Health System Development Projects.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
enviromnent? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Project supervision will pay particular attention to the implementation of the hospital waste management
plans. As part of the ongoing independent assessment of facility performance under the project, the
perceptions of users concerning hospital waste and cleanliness will continue to be monitored.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment was conducted to strengthen the planning and design of the project to better meet the
needs of the population for which the health services are intended. The social development outcomes of
increased provision of quality health services to the poor, women, and under-served groups have been
incorporated into the key performance indicators of the project. Project preparation has addressed key
social issues through: (i) an institutional assessment to provide guidance on how to implement the
institutional reforms and arrangements for the project; (ii) an analysis of strategies to improve relations
between the public and private sectors; (iii) paying particular attention to institutional support and capacity
building for implementing integrated care models at the district level; and (iv) developing
strategies/interventions for overcoming factors such as regional disparities and gender discrimnination that
affect the ability of the stakeholders to participate in or benefit from the project.
Findings of the Beneficiary Assessment and the Health Service Utilization and Patient Satisfaction Survey
have been incorporated into project design and indicate that: (i) capacity for delivering health care of
adequate quality and patient's perceptions of quality of care are both very low, and have been largely
neglected in the past. Project activities have been designed to directly respond to these issues; (ii) access of
the poor to health services is inadequate. Project sites were selected in part by poverty and access criteria.
Baseline data have been specifically collected to monitor and target use by the poor, and the project also
proposes to initiate innovative outreach schemes to increase access in under-served areas by contracting
NGOs/CBOs; (iii) the coordination and linkages between primary and secondary health programs is weak
- 17-



and scarce health care resources are being misutilized as a result; (iv) the private sector is the dominant
provider of ambulatory and in-patient services in UP, including for the poor. It is weakly, organized,
however, has little contact with the public sector, and has little accountability to the public. The project
proposes to increase linkages between the public and private sectors by increasing availability of medical
personnel by contracting local private doctors in under-served areas, and increasing access to health care
by enhancing the capacity of Indian systems of medicine to deliver preventive and limited curative care; and
(v) UP has a very small tribal population (0.2% of the population), who have largely been mainstreamed
into the general population. The Beneficiary Assessment indicates that the needs of this population are not
significantly different from the needs of other under-served areas, and will be addressed under Component
2 (c) of the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
End beneficiaries and community groups were consulted during the preparation phase to ensure that the
needs of patients are being met and incorporated into project design. Particular attention was paid to the
needs of the poor, and of women, and project sites were selected in part upon that basis. The use of health
services and patient satisfaction with services, notably by the poor, women, and scheduled castes, have
been incorporated into the health management information system. These will be used for local
management and performance assessment of the entire project. District health committees, involving user
representatives, and PRIs, are part of the groups which will monitor the use of user fees and facilities
performance during implementation. Communication strategies are also aimed at enabling
end-beneficiaries to demand better health care and better manage their own health.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The government proposes to enhance the participation of the voluntary and community-based sector,
especially for improving the access to primary health care and first referral services in remote and rural
areas where the presence of government facilities is uncertain. A mechanism for accomplishing this has
been developed during the preparation process as part of Component 2 (c) "Innovative schemes for
improving health services access to disadvantaged populations." Another mechanism is the establishment
of the public-private forum on health, which includes representatives from the non-profit and for-profit
sectors, as well as consumer organizations and policy research groups.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Institutional arrangements which help to ensure that the project achieves its social development outcomes
include the steps described above to improve the performance of the DOMHFW and enhance the role of the
local Panchayat bodies (Section E.4.2). In addition, the routine public dissemination of facility
performance and the establishment local committees to oversee user charges and patient exemptions will
improve the public accountability of health services towards meeting the social development outcomes of
improved access and use of health services to the poor, women, and under-served populations.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
A Health Service Utilization and Patient Satisfaction Survey has been developed for which baseline data
has already been compiled (See Annex 2, Tables I and 2). This survey instrument will be used at regular
intervals to monitor the accessibility and quality of services provided and the satisfaction of patients with
the services provided. The data is being collected for women, SC/ST and low-income groups, in order to
track the health seeking behavior of these groups who have been identified by the Beneficiary Assessment
as having lower physical, social and economic access to health services.
- 18 -



7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
M Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01. BP 4.01. GP 4.01)            l Yes a No
O Natural habitats (OP 4.04. BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                    El Yes 1 No
O Forestry (OP 4.36. GP 4.36)                                     C Yes El No
El Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      U Yes 1 No
El Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes 1 No
El Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   El Yes E No
O Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              El Yes 1 No
El Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37                               O Yes 1 No
[l Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50 GP 7.50)    O Yes 1 No
El Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60. BP 7.60. GP 7.60)         E Yes IZ No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
A Hospital Waste Management Assessment and Plan has been prepared under the project to deal with
reduction and better handling of hospital waste.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Financial, social, technical, and managerial sustainability is being addressed in the design of the project.
The linkage of the health project to broader economic and public sector reforms is mutually reinforcing,
and offers a clear advantage over a more isolated investment in a single sector. The economic analysis
demonstrates that the incremnental costs of the project are affordable in the current fiscal environment. The
continued monitoring of public expenditures on health is partly intended to ensure that choices are made to
ensure that the program remains financially sustainable as it develops further. Institutionalizing a process
to justify major capital investments is intended to maintain a financially sustainable program. A phased
approach to the program and the project will also help to keep the program affordable and commensurate
with the available resources. Social sustainability is addressed by instituting mechanisms to increase the
involvement and voice of consumers in the design of the project, and in routine provision of health services
in both public and private sectors. Updating the technical paradigms, streamilining services and integrating
the referral chain, working with the private sector, and focusing on management training and systems are
steps taken to ensure that the program is more technically and managerially sustainable than would have
been the case without the project.
- 19-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk      Risk Rating            RiskMi~~nJm  ain Measur
From Outputs to Objective
Institutional arrangements are not          S         Institutional strengthening will be emphasized in
effective in integrating centrally                   the proposed project.
sponsored health and farily welfare and
state health concerns
Productive institutional linkages with the  H         Information sharing, pilot studies, and
private sector are not established                    self-regulation will be encouraged. Continued
financing would be linked to performnance.
Competent staff and managers are not        M         Address through Letter of Health Sector
placed in the Strategic Planning Cell,                Development Program, appoint key personnel
project management units, and health                  prior to negotiations
facilities
Provider behavior cannot be changed         H         Emphasize consumer feedback and provider
incentives is part of the project design
Strategic approach to behavior change       S         Use research-based comnmunications and
communication will not increase demand                monitor results carefully
for and accountability of health services
From Components to Outputs
Flow of funds from GOI to State project     S         Address through Letter of Health Sector
are inadequate                                        Development Program, and financial
monitoring.
Staff and consultants are not assigned in a  M        Appoint key staff prior to negotiations
tirnely manner
Key staff and managers are not retained     S         Include provision at negotiations to retain
for sufficient time                                   well-performing staff
Procurernent is not managed in a timely     S         Develop robust procurement plans and appoint
manner                                                key staff prior to negotiations
Funds not made available for non-wage       M         Address through Letter of Health Sector
recurrent expenditures, especially drugs,             Development Program, and continued
medical supplies, and mobility allowances             monitoring of health expenditures.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Although no safeguard policies of the Bank are at risk, this reform program is likely to raise opposition,
particularly in trying to address problems of accountability in a state with a history of political uncertainty.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
To fulfill the Conditions of Negotiations, the following actions have been taken:
- 20 -



* A Letter of Health Sector Development Policy has been furnished to the Bank.
* Key project staff have been assigned (Project Director, Financial Controller, Chief Engineer), along
with nodal officers for Administration, Procurement Management, IEC, Management Change, Training
Coordination for Management and Clinical Training, and Disease Surveillance.
* A Government Order establishing the Project Governing Board, a Project Steering Conmmittee, Project
Management Unit, Strategic Management Board, and Strategic Support Group has been issued.
 The Project Implementation Plan has been finalized.
* A procurement plan for the first year of the project has been finalized.
* The first year's bidding documents for packages requiring prior review have been cleared by IDA.
* A public-private forum on health has been established, with an initial agenda for action.
* Baseline data on facilities performance and utilization by the poor have been collected and analyzed.
There are no conditions for Board Presentation or Effectiveness
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
In accordance with the Letter of Health Sector Development Policy, GOUP will:
* Monitor the GOUP financing plan to increase expenditures to the health sector (DOMHFW), and
ensure that with the resources allocated to the health sector, the share of resources allocated to
non-wage items will be increased in each year (Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
allocation).
 Focus on making the current health facilities fully functional, by placing a three-year moratorium on
the construction of new PHCs and CHCs until December 31, 2003 (Sectoral or cross-sectoral
budgetary or other resource allocation).
e  Implement a program to ensure that 100% of user fees collected will be retained at the health facility
level for use on non-wage items by May 31, 2003, and ensure exemptions for the poor from user fees
(Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries).
* Staff and resource the Project Management Unit and Strategic Management Board according to plans
outlined in the PIP (Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action).
- Undertake an annual assessment by an independent reviewer of transfers, absenteeism, and disciplinary
actions of personnel in the DOMHFW (Accounts/Audit).
At Negotiations, the GOUP provided assurances that it would:
* Release project funds to the implementing agencies in a timely manner, and in accordance with the
procedures described in the Project Financial Management Systemn Manual. This includes the
delegation of adequate financial powers to the Project Director, and the introduction of a Letter of
Credit system for payment of expenditures to be incurred under the project (Flow and utilization of
Project funds).
* Undertake an annual review of procurement and internal financial controls by an independent agency
(Accounts/Audit).
* Prepare annual project work plans prior to the beginning of each financial year, and implement each
annual work plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association (Management aspects of the project).
* Ensure that no civil works which may result in the involuntary resettlement of people will be
undertaken under the Project (Involuntary resettlement).
* Implement the Hospital Waste Management Assessment and Plan in accordance with the objectives,
policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set out therein. (Environmental covenants.)
-21 -



*  Submit quarterly Project Managet= Reports. (Monitoring, review and reporting.)
*  Carry out a mid-tarm review of the project by June 30, 2003 in accordance with  ms of reficrc
agreeable with the Association. (Monitoring, review and reporting.)
* 'BynolaterthanMay 31, 2003:
(a) frfmulate and tereafter i pIement, a comprehensive essential drugs policy. '(Sectoral or
cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/inswitutional action);
(b) provide a report on the condition of facilities 6traigthened and rehbiitated under the projecr to
demonstrate that such facilities ue fully finctional and operating in accordance with the now
nanns and naking mely progress on the indiators of facily performanc. (Maagmet aspects
of the project);
(c) provide a report on the assessmens of the initial pilot stdies, including those for (i) Rgional
directorates; (U) District financial deleption: (iii) contctng seave to the pmivate sectw; (iv) a
trauma center; (v) disease survilla;nce (vi) refral rnahanisms; and (vii) health managmnt
information systems. (Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/inatitutionalaction); and
(d) develop a new system of capital appraisal to be used for the porpose ofjusyi'g now capial
investmts in the health sector. (Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
allocation.).
H. Readiness for Implementation
l I. a) The engineering design docunents for the frst ycares activities re complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
R 1. b) Not applicable,
02. The procurement documents for tie fat year's activities are complete an4 ready for the stuat of
project implmentation.
5 3. The Project I mplemenation Pla has boe appraisd and fbund to be realistic and of satictory
quality.
0 4. The followg items arc lackig and are disissed under loan conditions (Section 0):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
01. This project complies with all applicable Bk policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommded for approvaL The project complies,with
al other applicable Bank poicies.
~~~~~'Iii                               i/i A
5vid H. Petars                     Richard L. Skoinuk                 Edwin BL 1int
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Dimetor          t  Country Man.gedDimctor
Indis HNP Team Leader
-22-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
Key Pefformanace
Hierarchy of Objectives               Indicators            Monitoring & Evaluation          Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve access to and quality of  In reforming states:
health services               * Increased utilization and    *CAS discussions              * Improved health services will
coverage of health services  *NFHS household surveys         improve people's quality of life
* Improved patient satisfaction    * Various Bank sector reports  and health status, facilitating
with health services          (ESW)                          poverty alleviation
*Progress in governance,
macroeconomic management,
other sectors, and human
resources will occur to sustain
economic growth, and create an
enabling environment upon
which health reforms depend
* Focussing on reforming states
and human development will
contribute to poverty reduction
in India
Program Purpose:              End-of-Program Indicators:                                   (from Purpose to Goal)
To meet the health needs of the   Improved coverage of critical  *Household surveys (NFHS,  *Consumers & providers
people of Uttar Pradesh by    public and private health       NSSO, Bank poverty monitoring  recognize benefits of
providing high quality,       services, including, increased  survey)                       improvements to health system,
responsive, affordable and    rates of                       *ICR for first project         justifying risks taken during
integrated health services.   * Institutional deliveries                                     reforms
* Outpatient & inpatient                                     * Success in UP and other states
Program Phasing:                attendance                                                   stimulate positive reforms in
* Contraceptive prevalence                                    other states
Before mid-term review:       *Immunization coverage (DPT3)
Initiate institutional reforms and  *Tuberculosis cure
meet urgent needs of the health
sector                        Increased health services
utilization rates by the poor
After mid-term review:
Establish institutional framework; Improved quality of health
develop key management        services, as demonstrated by:
systems; make functional      *Increased public satisfaction
existing public sector health   with public and private health
infrastructure; extend services to   services
remote areas; develop         * Use of quality of care
public-private partnerships     mechanisms in public and
private facilities
Follow-up project: Expand
institutional reforms and
financing options; expand
services through public sector and
through new partnerships with
private sector
-23 -



Project Development            Outcome I Impact               Project reports:               (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                     Indicators:
To establish a well managed   (See Annex 2, Table 1 for
health system which delivers   baseline and target levels)    * State budget reports         * Support continues for primary
more effective services through   I. Improved health facility quality * Health Management     care and centrally sponsored
policy reform, institutional and   and efficiency, as measured at  Information System at project    programs, currently assisted by
human resource development, and project facilities by:         facilities                     central gov't, Bank, and USAID
investment in health services                                 * Patient satisfaction surveys  *Political commitment to
a. Increased outpatient visits (i)   (Survey of facility users,  macro-economic, other key
overall; (ii) by the poor (ration  household survey)           sectors, and health reform is
card holders); (iii) by women  * Quarterly progress reports    strengthened
* State is willing to adopt new
b. Increased hospital admissions                               systems
(i) overall; (ii) by the poor; and                            * Credibility of public hospitals is
(iii) by women                                                 (re)established
* State is capable of working
c. Increased hospital bed                                      together with private sector
occupancy rates
d. Increased institutional
deliveries
e. Increased patient satisfaction
(i) overall; (ii) among the poor;
and (iii) among women
f. Increased numbers of
appropriate referrals at CHCs and
Combined/District Hospitals from
PHCs
2. a. Increased portion of GOUP
revenue budget spent on health
sector (plan and non-plan)
2. b. Increasing shares of public
sector health recurrent
expenditures spent on non-wage
operating expenditures
-24 -



Key Peiforrmance          ..
Higrarchy Of Objectives               Indioators            Monitoring & EValuation          Crit I  1 A;u np0 i9
Output from each              Output Indicators:             Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Policy Reform, Management A. Strategic Management
Development, and Institutional Capacity                      *Quarterly progress reports   *Effective institutional
Strengthening.                                               * Supervision mission reports  arrangements integrate centrally
1. Strategic Management Board   * Mid-term review and evaluation  sponsored health and family
New mechanisms for developing  prepared recommendations based   mission reports             welfare and state health
and reviewing state health policy, on policy options papers from  *Health information system  concerns
and managing the health sector at Strategy Support Group      reports                      *Productive institutional linkages
state, district, and facility levels                                                        with the private sector are
were made functional,                                                                       established
B. Performance,                                              * Competent staff and managers
Accountability and Efficiency                                 are placed in the Strategic
Support Group, project
l Improved performance in pilot                               management units, and health
districts with financial                                      facilities
management delegation
2. Reductions in absenteeism and
excessive transfers of key posts
(CMOs, CMSs)
3. Results-oriented, transparent
personnel performance appraisal
discussions taking place
4. Staff redeployment to fill posts
at facility level according to new
staff norms, especially for nurses
and specialist doctors
-25 -



2. Improving Health Service   A. Improving clinical services
Quality and Access,           quality                       *Quarterly progress reports   *Provider behavior can be
* Supervision mission reports  changed
The functional capacity of public  1. Project-supported CHCs and   * Mid-term review and evaluation * Strategic approach to behavior
sector health services has been   district hospitals have quality  mission reports         change communication will
increased and is better used,  assurance plans under        * Health information system    increase demand for and
particularly in under-served  implementation                 reports                       accountability of health services
areas.
2. Improved use of diagnostics
through:
a. Laboratory tests I (outpatient +
inpatient days)
b. X-rays / (outpatient + inpatient
days)
B. Improving public health
service quality
1. Disease surveillance & control
system disseminating timely
reports on appropriate conditions
2. Hospital waste managemnent
strategy implemented
C. Improving health services
access to disadvantaged
populations though innovations
Innovative schemes
demonstrating improved access to
disadvantaged populations
-26 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy ofObjectives               Indiators            Monitoring & Evaluation         Critical A&sumptions
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                 Outputs)
1. Policy Reforms, Management 1.    US$ 30.2 million       *Quarterly progress and      *Adequate flow of funds from
Development & Institutional  L.a.   US$ 0.7 million         disbursement reports          GOI to State project
Strengthening                l.b.   US$ 13.2 million        Supervision mission reports    *Timely assignment of staff and
l.c.   US$ 16.3 million      *Mid-term review and evaluation  consultants
I.a. Policy development                                     mission reports             *Continuity of key staff and
managers
1 .b. Management capacity and                                                           *Timely procurement
accountability                                                                          *Adequate funds for non-wage
recurrent expenditures,
I.c. Project management                                                                  especially drugs, medical
supplies, maintenance, and
mobility allowances
2. Improving health service  2.     US$ 97.4 million
quality & access             2.a.   US$ 75.9 million
2.b.   US$ 18.5 million
2.a. Improving clinical service   2.c.   US$ 3.0 million
quality
2.b. Improving public health
service quality
2.c. Improving access to health
services for disadvantaged
populations
-27 -



Annex 2: Project Description
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$30.20 million
A.      Developing a Strategic Management Capacity (US$0.7 million)
The main purpose of this sub-component is to enhance the competence for formulating and reviewing
strategies within the Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare (DOMHFW). The State will
establish a Strategic Management Board (SMB) within the DOMHFW, chaired by the Director General and
comprising of senior managers, with the mandate to: (a) review the overall performance of the health system;
and (b) establish the strategic direction for the health sector. Key initial areas of importance include the
essential drugs policy, public-private partnerships and manpower issues. Further policy reform will be
considered during the life of the project, probably in the areas of integrating medical, health and family
welfare services, implementing new health financing options, and organizational reforms of hospitals. The
SMB will be supported by a Strategy Support Group (SSG) that will conduct specific policy analysis and
research work as directed by the Board.
This sub-component will also establish an effective forum to develop public-private partnerships in the
health sector. The forum will develop its own specific objectives that are likely to include: improving
relationships between the public, voluntary, and corporate sectors in health in UP, help to clarify these roles
and share information, and discuss issues of common concem and mutual benefit. This sub-component will
finance equipment, furniture, supplies, studies, consultants, operations and maintenance, and salaries of
incremental staff on a declining basis.
B.    Strengthening Performance, Accountability and Efficiency (US$ 13.2 million)
The main purpose of this sub-component is to build a management culture that strives for improvements in
operational effectiveness and efficiency, and holds managers accountable for results. The specific
objectives are to: (i) develop a health management information system (HMIS) that provides accurate,
relevant and timely reports to managers at the directorate, regional and district level, with a specific
emphasis on the monitoring of district service improvement plans; (ii) implement a results-oriented
appraisal system for managerial and professional staff in which open appraisal discussions identify specific
actions needed to improve individual performance; (iii) conduct tailored management training for managers
from directorate to facility level to enable critical project interventions to be implemented effectively and
ultimately to change management practices and attitudes; (iv) demonstrate in 10 pilot districts over a two
year period how enhanced discretion over expenditure can result in improvements in health services; (v)
develop and implement a manpower plan to fill critical vacancies, especially in rural facilities, and to
remove surpluses gradually; and (vi) contract out diagnostic and non-clinical services in district hospitals to
improve service levels and efficiency. This sub-component will finance contractual services, furniture,
equipment, supplies, training, studies, consultants, and operational expenses on a declining basis.
C.       Building Implementation Capacity (US$16.3 million)
Experience from other projects in UP and India demonstrate the need to have a dedicated project
management unit (PMU) to implement and coordinate a project of this size and scope. The PMU will be
headed by a Project Director who is a senior IAS officer in order to maintain the necessary government
support for the project. The Project Director, who reports to the Principal Secretary, DOMHFW, will lead
- 28 -



eight cells within the PMU, covering: Medical and Health; Surveillance; IEC; Equipment; Civil Works;
Management Development; Finance and Accounts; and Admninistration. Staff will be seconded from the
DOMHFW and other government bodies, though for key positions such as the Financial Controller,
personnel will be recruited from the private sector.
Since most project activities will be executed at the district level and below, the DOMHFW has decided to
appoint five regional directors to coordinate key project sub-components including civil works. In addition
to their project responsibilities, the regional offices will also have a broader remit to agree district service
improvement plans with CMOs and to monitor district performance. In order to bring all the health care
activities in the district under the control and responsibility of a single manager, the Department proposed to
upgrade CMOs in the district to the rank of Additional Director. However, since the State Government has
decided for the time being to retain the divisional level of management (which is headed by an Additional
Director), it is only feasible to upgrade five CMOs at present in those locations where Regional Directors
will be appointed. However, the Department plans to issue an order to the effect that the CMO will be
senior to the CMS and have overall responsibility for managing all district health services in the remaining
78 districts.
Under this sub-component the project will finance minor civil works, furniture, equipment, training,
consultants, and operational expenses and salaries of incremental staff on a declining basis.
Project Component 2 - US$97.40 million
A. Improving clinical service quality (US$75.9)
This subcomponent is organized around the purpose of improving the quality of clinical practices by
improving the skills of health providers, introducing quality assurance systems, utilizing appropriate
facilities, equipment, drugs and medical supplies. A detailed mapping exercise has been undertaken to
identify the types of services to be provided at different health facilities across the state. Streamlined norms
and standards for clinical and support services developed during project preparation will be applied, and
staffing norms will be adopted, conforming to services that will be provided at each type of facility. A plan
for a coherent system of referral and service delivery from the block PHCs to CHCs to the district hospital
is being developed. A system for monitoring improvements in the quality of clinical services will be
established through the adoption of a quality assurance program. At health facilities, quality assurance
plans will be developed to address patient satisfaction, systematic review of medical records and referrals,
clinical protocols, and technical quality assurance schemes for laboratories and equipment. At the state
level, a quality assurance plan will be developed that will deal with standards for facilities and health
personnel, licensing and accreditation, and other quality assurance procedures. Staff skills in clinical and
technical areas will be enhanced through the provision of training to improve the quality and range of
services, and management training for clinical and technical cadres will be strengthened. Reproductive and
child health initiatives at the PHC level and centrally sponsored disease control and nutrition programs will
be expanded, and good quality health and family welfare services encouraged through the private sector.
Activities will focus initially on existing health facilities by providing for the most urgent needs in public
sector health delivery. Facilities will be made functional through rehabilitation and re-equipping, filling
staffing gaps and providing resources to better supervise staff. In addition, ambulances will be provided,
critical medical equipment will be installed, and travel allowances for outreach workers will be financed.
Initially, activities will concentrate on renovation of 152 sites, comprising 50 BPHCs, 35 CHCs and 35
combined and district hospitals and 32 associated female hospitals, largely in the poorest three regions of
the state: Bundelkand, Uttarkhand, and Eastern UP. The selection of the facilities to be upgraded under the
project was made on the basis of a comprehensive scoring system which took account of strategic location
- 29 -



including access by disadvantaged groups and current utilization. The state government has confirmed that
all premises slated for renovation/extension have existing land. Information, education, and
communications will support improvements in quality of clinical services by raising the awareness of
communities on the types of services available and where, the referral and user fee guidelines, making
hospitals friendly to patients and family, and influencing demand for appropriate treatment.
Under this sub-component, the project will finance civil works, drugs and medical supplies, equipment,
vehicles, professional services, training and workshops, IEC materials and media space, and operations and
maintenance on a declining basis.
B. Improving public health service quality (US$18.5 million)
Activities under this component are intended to improve the quality of public health services, particularly
the programns and services addressing the prevention of disease and health needs of the population as a
whole. The state proposes to re-establish a disease surveillance and control system, including for food
safety. This will involve establishing specialist units within the Medical Directorate with technical
expertise, laboratory support, and protocols and information systems. To tackle the issue of
pharmaceuticals quality in the state, the project makes provision for reforming the drug quality control
systems by creating an independent drug control administration to ensure that drugs are safe in a
transparent and efficient manner. At public health facilities, improving waste management will improve the
acceptability of facilities, and reduce the public health threats of medical waste. A phased strategy will be
developed and implemented to reduce, segregate, recycle and safely dispose hospital waste. This
development is mandatory in view of the recent GOI legislation on the disposal of hospital waste. Health
communications is a major part of public health services, and under this sub-component, a coordinated
strategy for various ad hoc communications efforts will be focusing on: (i) providing support to the public
health interventions,'as is done for clinical services; (ii) improving the awareness and demand for public
health and individual clinical services; and (iii) promoting healthy behavior change in priority areas. Under
this sub-component, the project will finance minor civil works, furniture, equipment, supplies, IEC
materials, workshops, training, consultants, operations and maintenance and salaries of incremental staff on
a declining basis.
C. Improving access to health services (US$3.0 million)
Under this sub-component, the focus of the project in the remote areas will be to enhance access to health
care and to facilitate health-seeking behavior where there are few private sector alternatives. Because of
the vastly different physical and social environments, and because of different health needs and capabilities,
this sub-component will also provide funds for district health teams and NGOs to undertake innovative
activities. For example, in Uttarkhand, a hilly area with difficult access to qualified public or private
health providers, district teams may find ways of working with rural medical practitioners, to limit their
more dangerous practices, while encouraging them to make appropriate referrals and to better manage
cases not requiring physician care. Other experiments will also be supported, such as: developing
networks of public and private facilities, expanding outreach services, identifying and reaching vulnerable
groups not using health services, or developing pre-payment or insurance schemes. Under this
sub-component, the project will finance training, NGOs, studies, consultants, and operational expenses on a
declining basis.
- 30 -



Project Phasing:
Initiation Phase. The initial three years of the program is designed to initiate the reforms, meet some
emergency needs of the sector, and make a few selected facilities functional. Component-wise activities
that are planned in the initiation phase are:
A. Policy Reforms & Institutional Strengthening
This phase would build on the project preparation period, and initiate the processes for health policy
development, including the establishment of the health policy unit (Strategic Management Board supported
by Strategic Support Group) and a forum for public-private partnerships. During this time, critical new
policies for essential drugs, user charges, and manpower placement would be implemented. Other steps to
strengthen institutions in this phase are to complete designs for revising the health information system,
financial management system, and developing a strategic approach to behavior change conmmunications
across the health sector.
B. Improving Health Service Quality and Access
In the initiation phase, the project aims to fill in the most urgent needs in health delivery system. These
include providing infrastructure such as strengthening health facilities by renovating the selected health
facilities, providing medical and other equipment as per the agreed norms, providing ambulances, closing
key personnel gaps in the selected facilities, establishing maintenance systems, etc. Piloting of trauma care
units, contracting non-clinical services and networking public and private sectors would also be taken up.
Consolidation Phase. The consolidation phase of the program is intended to firnly establish the reforms
taken up during the initiation phase, make existing public infrastructure fully functional, and extend
meaningful partnership with the private sector based on the lessons leamt during the initiation phase. In
particular, the pilot tests and feasibility studies that were conducted during the initiation phase would be
evaluated during the mid-term review for future planning. These include assessments of the effectiveness
and prospects for:
-  Regional Directorate units
*  Changes in District responsibilities
* District financial delegation and planning
*  Public-Private forum
*  Contracting of services to the private sector
*  Quality assurance pilot tests
*  Surveillance system pilot tests
  Trauma units
*  Innovative schemes to under-served areas
*  Independent Drug Control Admninistration
The following activities would be taken up in each of the components:
A. Policy Reforms and Institutional Strengthening
After the mid term review, the policy analysis and development processes would be firmnly established by
analyzing issues and preparing policies options based on the lessons leamt. Management systems will be
- 31 -



established in the areas of state and district planning and budgeting, financial management, health
information, building and equipment maintenance, quality assurance, disease surveillance, drug quality
control, and hospital waste management. As well, efforts to better coordinate centrally sponsored schemes
(disease control, nutrition, and reproductive health) will be supported.
B. Improving Health Services Quality and Access
The project will focus on making existing health facilities functional through rehabilitation and
re-equipping more block level PHCs, CHCs, and district hospitals; filling staffing gaps and providing
resources for better supervision of staff. With the purpose of raising demand for health services and
improving healthy behavior, health education and promotion activities would be supported and efforts to
bring in integration across projects and program areas as appropriate will be made. During this time, the
establishment of an independent Drug Control Administration is planned.
Expansion Phase. This phase would be taken up in a subsequent loan, and is designed to expand health
services through the public and private sectors, and would be comprised of:
A. Further policy reform, likely in the areas of integrating medical, health and family welfare services;
implementing new health financing options; organizational reform of hospitals; and other issues
arising from lessons learned during the earlier phases.
B. Extending management systems, particularly in the areas of quality assurance, improving public
accountability by strengthening public information and institutions such as district health
committees, joint undertakings with the private sector, and other issues that arise from the first
phase.
C. Expanding services at primary and hospital levels either through public or private provision.
Performance benchmarks
Monitoring and evaluation of quantitative as well as qualitative aspects of project activities is essential to
ensure effective and successful implementation. It also helps in effecting mid-course correction and
recasting programs where needed. Project baseline indicators have been established, and annual, mid-term
and final evaluations will be undertaken by independent agencies to assess performance at various stages of
project implementation; achievement of the benchmarks will determine the scope of subsequent investments
in the project (Table 1). The mid-term review will summarize lessons learnt from the Initiation Phase, and
pave the way for the Consolidation Phase of project implementation. The mid-term review will also
provide an opportunity to learn from the many initiatives that were piloted in the first part of the project,
and progress at this stage of implementation will determine the scope for project re-design.
- 32 -



Table 1 Project Indicators and Targets
Hierarchy of          Indicator                  Sources of Data        When Measured    BaseHne Level         Target Levels       Target Levels
Objectives                                       (Responsibility)                                              Initiation Phase   Consolidation
Phase
Project Development  Outcome/Impact Indicators
Objective
To establish a well   I. Improved Health Facility   I.Special survey for  LAnnually for
managed health        quality and efficiency, as  baseline and years 1-2;   special surveys  1 a (i) 9,166,384  I a (i) 10,000,000    I a (i)l 1,000,000
system, whkh delivers measured at project facilities   HMIS Reports fbr year 2  2.Semiannully for    visits    visits             visits
more effective services by:                      onwards (PMU for       HMIS                I a (ii) 19%       1 a (ii) 25%        1 a (ii) 35%
through policy reform, a. Increased out patient visits  special surveys, Medical           I a (ii) 41%        1 a (iii) 45%       1 a (iii) 50%
institutional and     (i) overall: (ii) by the poor    Care for HMIS)
human resource        (ration card holders); (ii) by
development, and      women.                                                               I b(i) 472,870      1 b(i)500,000       I b(i)600,000
investment in health                                                                       admissions          admissions         admissions
services.             b. Increased hospital                                                 1 b(ii) 12%        1 b(ii)25%          I b(ii)35%
adnaissions (i) overall; and (ii)                                    1 b(iii) 36%        1 b(iii) 45%       1 b(iii) 50%
by the poor; (iii) by women.
I.c. CHCs: 20%     I.c. CHCs: 30%      I.c. CHCs: 50%
c. Increased hospital bed                                            I.c. CHtDH: 50%    I.c. CH/DH: 60%/o   I.c. CH/DH: 70%
occupancy                                                            I.c. FH: 41%        I.c. FH: 500/%     I.c. FH: 60%
d. Increased institutional                                           I. d. 132,972       1. d. 145,000      1. d. 200,000
deliveries                                                           deliveries         deliveries          deliveries
e. Ircreased patient                                                  .e. See Table 2    I.e. SeeTable 2    I.e. See Table2
satisfaction (i) overall; (ii)
among the poor; (ii) among the                                       I f. No baseline    I f. Baseline      I f. Increase as
women.                                                                                  estimated from      agreed at MTR
HMIS
f Increased number of
appropriate referrals at CHCs
and Combined/District
Hospitals from PHCs.
2.a. (i) increased portion of                                        1997-98            2002-03             2004-05
GOUP revenue budget spent
on health sector (plan and  State Budget Reports    Annually         2.a. (i) 4.8 % (1.1%   2.a. (i) 6%     2.a. (i) 6.5%
non-plan).                 (PS, DOHMFW for 4b.)                      SGDP)
2.b) Increasing shares of                                            2.b 23%            2.b 25%             2.b. 30%
public sector health recurrent
expenditures spent on
non-wage operating
expenditures
Component I           A.Strategic Management    Project Monitoring      Quarterly          Strategic           Policy             Policy
Policy Reform,        Capacity                   Reports (Head, Strategy                   Managemrent Board  recommendations on: recommendations on:
Management            I. Strategic Management    Support Group)                            and Strategic Support a. developing    a. health allocation
Development, and      Board prepared                                                       Group established    partnership with the  principles; human
Institutional         recommendations based on                                                                 private sector.    resource strategy;
Strengthening.        policy options papers from                                                               b. revising the    b. integrating
New mechanisms for    Strategy Support Group.                                                                  essential drugs     nutrition and health
developing and                                                                                                 policy,             services;
reviewing state health                                                                                         c. reforming        c. evaluation and
policy; and nmanaging the                                                                                      manpower use.      prospects for
health sector at state,                                                                                                           public-private
district, and facility                                                                                                            partneriiip.
levels are made
functional.
- 33 -



Indicator                 Sources of Data         When Measured    Baseline Level        Target levels      Target Levels
(Responsibility)                                              Initiation Phase    Consolidation
Phase
B. Performance,                                                         1. Development      I. Above average
Accountability and                                                      Objective Indicators  proportional increase  I. To be determined
Efficiency.                                                             (la-le in 10 pilot    in la-le. Evaluation  atMTR
I. Improved           1. Project Monitoring Report  I. Annually         districts)         of pilots.
perfornmance in financial (Project Director, PMU)                                           2. Evidence of action
Management Delegation                                                                      taken on audit
pilot districts       2. Independent audit (PD,                                             findings, and changes 2. To be determined
PMtl)                                             2. To be determined  in the levels of (a)   at MTR
2. Annually            with frst audit.   inappropriate
2. Reduction in                                                                            absentecism; (b)
absenteeism and                                                                            premature transfers;
excessive transfers of   3. Appraisal records (Director                                    and (c) disciplinary   3. 75% of appraisals
key posts (CMOs,      Admninistration, RDs, CMOs)                                          achions.            of acceptable quality.
CMSs)                                            3. Annually            3. Nil
4. Manpower surveys                                                  3. Pilot completed at
year 2; 50% of     4. All posts filled at
3. Results-oriented,                                                                        appraisals of      intervention
transparent personal                                                                       acceptable quality by facilities. For
performance appraisal                           4. End of year 2 and then  4. All posts filled at  year 3.     remainder of state
discussions taking place                         annually.              intervention facilities                90% of vacancies
4. For remainder of  filled, surplus
4. Staffredeployment to                                                                     state 75% of       reduced by 50%N.
fill posts at facility level                                                               vacancies filled,
according to new staff                                                                     surplus reduced by
norms, especially for                                                                      25%.
nurses; specialist doctors
Component 2 Outputs A. Improving clinical
Improving health      servies quality
service quality and
access                I. Project-supported CHCs    I. Project Monitoring  1. Quarterly      I. Nil             1. 35 CHCs
The functional capacity  and DH have quality     Reports (PMJ I                                                S DH (3 combined   8. 120 CHCs
of public sector health   assurance plans under  Directorate)                                                  and 5 male and         68 OH
services has been     implementation                                                                           female)
increased and is better
used, particularly in
under- served areas.
2. Improved use of        2. Special survey for   2. Annually for    2.a. 7.6%           2.a. 20%           2.a. 40%
diagnostics through:      baseline and years 1-2;    special surveys;
HMIS reports for years 2  Semiannually for
a. Herratology tests/     onwards (PD, PMU for   HMIS                2.b. 1.9%           2.b. 5%            2.b. 10%
(outpatients + inpatient-days) special surveys, Director
Medical care for HMIS)
b. X-rays I (outpatient +                                            3. 0 BPHCs          3. 50 BPHCs         3. 50 BPHCs
inpatient-days)                                                      a CHCs              35CHCs             35 CHCs
0 District Hospitals  19 District Hospital  67 District Hospital
3. Functional Equipment in                                                               sites              sites
place- 90% of equipment
(according to equipment
index) at project sites
functional at all times
B. Improving public health                                           1. To be established   I .80%/ of quarterly   I. To be determined
service quality                                                                         reports disseminated  at MTR
I. Disease Surveillance &  I.Reports on Joint     1. Quarterly                          within one month
control system disseminating  Epidemic Program                                           2. 35 CHCs, 51     2. All Project
timely reports on appropriate                                        2. To be established  CHIDHs segregating  Facilities
conditiom                                                                                waste and disposing
according to plans
2. Hospital waste         2. Project Monitoring   2. Quarterly
management strategy       Reports (PMU)
implemented.
C. Improving health
services access to        Project Monitoring      Annually           I. I proposal       1. 15 proposals    To be determined at
disadvantaged populations  Reports (RDs, PMU)                        approved            funded             MTR
through innovations.                                                                     2. 5 proposals
Innovative schemes                                                                      reviewed and
demonstrating improved                                                                   showing improved
access to disadvantaged                                                                  access
populations.
Note: Indicators will be reviewed during the development of the health management information system, and at the mid-term review. For example, it
is expected that a study on drug leakage and stock outs will be incorporated into routine monitoring of indicators.
- 34 -



Table 2 Baseline levels of satisfaction at project sites
Total        Ration Card         Women
Holders
Domain for Satisfaction
Sample Size            3421              543              1339
Access to the facility                                                        96%               99%              95%
Cleanliness & Surroundings                                                    44%               46%              43%
Explaining the disease, the treatment and effects.                            66%               66%              67%
Advising for healthy living, mnaking patient comfortable                      51%               51%              51%
Satisfaction relating to medical care received                                59%               64%              58%
Ease in receiving the medical care in ordinary and emergency circumstances    65%               64%              64%
Competence and capabilities of the staff, esp. doctors                        55%               57%              54%
Availability of services                                                      58%               53%              57%
Doctors' behavior                                                             48%               51%              48%
Time spent by the doctor on the patient & his listening to patient problems   80%               83%              79%
The financial burden on the patients and their expectations from the facility  31%              27%              30%
Behavior of nursing staff                                                     57%               59%              57%
Note: Patient satisfaction data is useful for identifying domains of action and sites (facilities or districts) with
exceptional results. Rather than simply assessing changes in overall levels, it is more relevant to see that the
results are used to identify exceptional results, and that actions are taken accordingly.
- 35 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1. Pohcy Reforms, Management Development & Institutional                             0.00
Strengthening
A. Policy development & strategic planning          0.70         0.01          0.71
B. Strengthening management capacity               11.96         0.22         12.18
C. Project Management                              14.44         0.57         15.01
2. Imnproving Health Service Quality and Access                                      0.00
A. Improving clinical service quality              49.65        18.39         68.04
B. Improving public health service quality         13.78         2.84         16.62
C. Improving access to disadvantaged populations    2.68         0.00          2.68
Total Baseline Cost                                      93.21        22.03        115.24
Physical Contingencies                                   8.07         2.20         10.27
Price Contingencies                                      0.64          1.43         2.07
Total Project Costs            101.92        25.66        127.58
Total Financing Required             101.92        25.66        127.58
Civil Works                                                17.65          3.27        20.92
Goods                                                      29.51         17.36        46.87
Services                                                   27.12          0.00        27.12
Salaries, Operational Expenses, Maintenance                18.93          1.40        20.33
Physical Contingencies                                      8.07          2.20         10.27
Price Contingencies                                         0.64          1.43         2.07
Total Project Costs   101.92         25.66        127.58
Total Financing Required    101.92         25.66       127.58
-36 -



Annex 4
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
I.    Introduction
The Uttar Pradesh Health System Development Project I (UPHSDP) builds on the experience of the
implementation of state health project in six other states. Like the other state health projects, preparation of
UPHSDP gained from two Sector studies: India: Policy and Finance Strategies, May 1995 and India:
New Directions in Health Sector Development, February 1997. Moreover, project preparation gained from
recent UP-specific sector work: India: Uttar Pradesh - From Fiscal Crisis to Renewed Growth, September
1998; and UP- Public Expenditure Analysis: The Health Sector, April 1999. On-going India Sector work
on private and public roles in the health sector assisted in shaping the role of the private sector in the
project and provided a better understanding of the equity dimension for public subsidies.
The UP Macroeconomic Context. With a population of more than 160 million, Uttar Pradesh is India's
largest state, one of the poorest, and with some of the country's worst social indicators. UP's economy is
dominated by the agricultural sector, with 40 percent of State GDP (SGDP), and 75 percent of
employment. Development has been slow in UP, and the state is increasingly being left behind the rest of
India. The gap between UP and All India per capita income increased from 29 percent in 1980 to 44
percent in 1997. Per-capita growth has averaged less than 1 percent per annum in the nineties. Poverty is
stagnating as a result. The Government is living beyond its means. Unsustainably high and increasingly
large deficits over the last decade have led to a mounting debt burden. Stagnating revenues and rising
salary and interest bills are forcing the Government to cut back on capital investments and non-wage
operation and maintenance, leading UP into a vicious cycle of low growth and fiscal stress. In the last two
years, the fiscal crisis has taken a turn for the worse. In 1998/99, total revenues (excluding borrowing)
were more than exhausted by salaries, pensions and interest payments.
The Government has recognized that it is now facing a crisis, and has launched a reforrn program,
beginning in March 1998 with the issuance of a White Paper highlighting the state's acute fiscal stress, and
the unsustainability of current trends. Since then a number of tax, expenditure, governance and sectoral
reforms have been implemented or initiated.
Rs.         Per Capita Incom e
4000
3500    ;-.-i00,  1t
3 00 0
2500
2000
500    m
The UP Health Sector Context. The health sector in UP is one of the most vulnerable in India. An
epidemiological transition and new burdens of disease are placing greater strains on the health system in the
- 37 -



state that has not been able to provide good access to quality health services. The changing environment
will require new approaches to managing health care and to inprove the overall perfornance of the health
sector. Private financing is the dominant mode of financing health care, including for the poor; in UP,
about 75-80 percent of health expenditures is paid privately, largely out-of-pocket, and on a fee-for-service
basis to providers.
The Center/State Context. The GOI's Ninth Plan (1997-2002) identifies health as one of six priority
areas; it emphasizes integration of vertical health programs; better surveillance and control of
communicable and non-communicable diseases; improved health management information systems;
strengthened logistics management; and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) involvement in health. The
Central Council of Health and Family Welfare has noted the importance of linking preventive and
promotive care with selective aspects of curative care. Since the states are largely responsible for the
financing and implementation of health programs, these issues need to be addressed at the state level.
UPHSDP supports this strategy and will provide financial support to: (i) policy reform through the
establishment of a Strategy Support Group which would oversee analysis, technical assistance, pilot
studies, and public information to develop and test new policies; (ii) development of management systems
for planning and budgeting, financial management, health information systems, disease surveillance, food
and drug control, and hospital waste management; and (iii) improvements to existing public sector facilities
and programs.
H.    Economic Justification
Unlike disease-specific intervention projects, UPHSDP is designed with a wider focus on improving the
overall performance of the health sector in the state. At issue are; (i) the roles of the private and public
sectors in the delivery and financing of health services; (ii) the capacity to design and implement
appropriate, effective, and lasting policies; (iii) improvements in resource allocation rules; and (iv)
improving equity and efficiency of the health sector.
Public and Private Roles. Project design includes a number of features developed to help the state take
advantage of all available resources (human and financial):
*  An innovation in the development of UPHSDP is the use of public-private forums for dialogue between
the public sector and the large private sector for health services delivery. An agenda for common
action was developed for an active role for the private and voluntary sectors.
*  Legislation will be developed (with the active participation of the private sector) for the regulation of
the whole sector. The legislation combined with an enhanced capcity to manage the sector will
strengthen the stewardship role of the public sector.
*  Innovative schemes will be funded for the use of the voluntary sector to extend the reach of health
services to under-served and predominantly poor areas. The Schemes will be assessed for possible
expansion.
*  Project design includes the use of the private sector through contractual arrangements to develop and
deliver training and human power development.
*  Contractual arrangements will also be developed for non-medical services such as laundry and
transportation.
*  Stronger partnerships will be developed in medical and support services through coordinated referral
systems and location of private laboratory and diagnostic services in public facilities.
In addition to developing stronger policy and stewardship roles in the public sector, project design focused
- 38 -



on strengthening the role of the state in advocacy. Within the sector, Behavior Change Communications
and LEC activities will be undertaken to address the important role of households in improving health and
interacting with the health sector. For example, an activity designed to improve household interaction with
the public sector facilities is the development and dissemination of a patient charter describing the rights of
citizens.
III    Equity
The on-going India sector work on Public and Private Roles in the Health Sector includes a
Benefit-Incidence Study for the 16 major states and union territories. At issue is a better understanding of
how the public subsidy to the health sector is captured by different groups. Preliminary estimates for UP,
sunmarized in Table 1, show inequality in the use of the public facilities for hospitalization (for all
secondary and tertiary facilities from CHCs and larger), with 39 percent of inpatient visits captured by the
richest 20 percent of the population. Outpatient care at public facilities were also skewed towards the
wealthier segments. It is important to note that private sector hospitals are even more regressive than the
public sector.
Table 1: Preliminary estimates from a benefit incidence analysis of health subsidies in UP
Income Quintiles                 Hospitalization              Outpatient Care
(Share of Inpatient Visits)   (Share of total subsidy)
Poorest 20 percent                    11.5                          15.5
Next 20 percent                        13.4                         15.0
Middle 20 percent                      16.5                         15.3
Next 20 percent                        19.5                         23.3
Richest 20 percent                    39.2                          30.9
There are many reason for inequality in capturing the health subsidy in UP and other Indian states.
Detailed analysis point to the urban bias in health spending and a neglect of primary and secondary level
facilities. Resource allocation issues along with limited information, education, and empowerment,
combine to limit the use of public health services by the most vulnerable in society. Many elements of this
project, as described elsewhere, are designed to address resource allocation factors and to improve
information access to the poorest in UP. Moreover, the private and voluntary sectors will also be
contracted to extend coverage to under-served areas.
IV.   Resource Allocation-Efficiency in Input Mix
A public expenditure review of the UP state health spending record found a number of weaknesses in
resource allocation. While the commitment to primary and secondary has existed, more focus on the needs
at these levels of service delivery is needed. A more serious concern is the imbalance in the input mix.
Specifically, non-salary recurrent inputs such as drugs and maintenance are being increasingly starved out
while the wage-bill continues to increase. In the most recent available data, the wage bill accounted for
about 77 percent of the state recurrent health budget. The results of this imbalance are crumbling
infrastructure and supply and drug stock-outs. It is not surprising then that utilization rates in UP are
among the lowest in India.
- 39 -



Table 2: UP State Health Sector Expenditure Trends
Year   Total        Percent     Percent               Share of Recurrent
Spending (Rs Share      Share
Million)    Capital     Recurrent
Wages             Drugs
91-92     6283          9           91            67                  5
92-93     7282          7           93            69                  4
93-94     8749          6           94             63                 4
94-95     8954          7           92            64                  3
95-96     9739          5           95             71                 1
96-97     11151         6           94            67                  2
97-98     14900         6           94             79                 3
98-99     13063         7           93             77                 7
The project design takes into account the concerns about resource allocations. Relevant policy changes
documented in the policy matrix of the PIP include:
*  The State will make increased provision in the allocation of the health budget for drugs, supplies,
maintenance, and other non-wage operating expenditures (at least 25 percent in 2001-02 and 30
percent in 2002-03).
*  Shift the focus from building more health facilities to ensuring that existing facilities are functioning
well.
V.    Sustainability and Resource Mobilization
UP goverunent spending on health and family welfare is considerably below the international levels that
are considered adequate to meet public health priorities, and also below the levels required to achieve the
service norms set by the Government of India. Trend analysis in the expenditure review show a state
comrnmitment to health and family welfare stagnant over the last ten years at about four percent of state
expenditures and one percent of state domestic product.
Table 3: Trend in Allocations to Health and Family Welfare
Year      Percent of UP Budget Allocated to    Percent of UP State Domestic Product
Health and Family Welfare     Allocated to Health and Family Welfare
91-92                   3.7                                0.97
92-93                   4.1                                1.03
93-94                   4.7                                1.10
94-95                   4.2                                0.99
95-96                   4.6                                0.97
96-97                   4.8                                0.95
97-98                   4.8                                1.12
98-99                   3.8                                0.86
A key objective of the project is to improve the access to quality health care services. A necessary
condition for the achievement of this objective is increasing spending on specific investments and at the
appropriate levels of care delivery. GOUP will achieve this by: (i) increasing the share of health sector
-40 -



allocations within the overall budget and step up the allocations progressively; (ii) reallocating resources on
critical non-wage inputs; and (iii) raising supplementary funds through user charges.
GOUP Contributions. The GOUP has committed to progressively increase allocation to health. Detailed
targets are set out in the policy matrix of the PIP and will be monitored annually. The GOUP is committed
to ensuring that IDA funds will not substitute for state funds during the lifetime of the project. It is
important to note that the high levels of debt in UP State finances pose a risk to this commitment to health
spending.
Cost-Recovery and Retention. The analysis of cost recovery in UP shows that the level of user charges is
currently low and resources are not re-cycled into the health system. In fiscal year 1996/97, total revenue
generated from cost-sharing in UP accounted for less than 0.5 percent of the State's total expenditures. Yet
household survey data show high levels of out of pocket expenditures at public facilities. In one survey,
National Sample Survey 1995/96, out of pocket expenditures were higher for public sector outpatient visits
than other service providers. Out of pocket hospitalization expenditures also appear to be high for public
hospitals but are slightly lower than for private facilities.
Analysis and experience from health systems projects in other states has shown that revenues from user
charges significantly augment non-salary recurrent expenditures. An important element of the reforms in
this project would focus on developing and implementing cost-recovery schemes that would provide needed
resources for the sector, improve efficiency of use of facilities and the referral system, and do not hurt the
poor. Two important element relate to the exemption policy and retention and recycling of cost-sharing
funds.
The exemption policy developed for this project includes no cost sharing for centrally sponsored services
such as immunization, reproductive health, leprosy, and family welfare. And to help ensure that the poor
are not harmed by the policy, an existing ration card system will be used to identify those under the poverty
lines (rural and urban poverty lines calculated separately) and exempt them from charges. Information on
the exemption system will be disseminated widely to empower poor families. Another innovation is the
retention of funds at the facilities for use to improve the quality of services. The ability to retain funds and
recycle them locally should improve the incentives for collection and reporting of funds. Using the funds to
improve quality of care will make the facilities more attractive.
- 41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2  | Year 3      Year 4    Year 5     Year 6     Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          13.8       29.6       28.8       16.9      16.1        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             1.9       3.1        4.7        6.5        6.2        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         15.7       32.7       33.5       23.4      22.3        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             15.7       32.7       33.5       23.4      22.3        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  14.2       29.3      29.3       19.3       17.9       0.0        0.0
Govemment                  1.5        3.4       4.2        4.1        4.4       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     15.7      32.7       33.5       23.4      22.3       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 42 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
Procurement
The procurement arrangements to be undertaken by the project will be the responsibility of the
implementing agency, the DOMHFW, and in particular the Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU
will be responsible for all procurement activities either directly or through the hiring of consultants to assist
it. At the time of appraisal, invitations have been invited for two procurement consultancy contracts: one
for civil works, and one for equipment. International Competitive Bidding and National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) procedures will be managed through the central unit, whereas all other methods will be
managed by the Regional and district units. The PMU is being strengthened through the setting up of an
Engineering Wing as a key functional area which will be responsible for the procurement of civil works.
For civil works, procurement will be supervised by a Chief Engineer with assistance from one
Superintendent Engineer, two Assistant Engineers, four Junior Engineers, two Assistant Architects, and
other supporting staff at the PMU level, as well as an engineering wing in each Region deputed to the
project from the Public Works Department. This would help to get the procurement of civil works off to a
good start.
For the procurement of equipment, instrument and furniture, an Additional Director in charge of the
Equipment Wing of the PMU will supervise procurement activities with the support of adequate technical
and clerical staff. For all other procurement, such as medicines, MIS/IEC materials, other supplies,
vehicles, consultants and services, the Regional units of the PMU will directly manage the procurement
activities with the assistance of dedicated staff working on procurement matters.
A. Civil Works. The construction program encompasses the renovation/extension works for existing 35
District Hospitals (including 32 Female Hospitals located at separate sites from the main district hospital),
existing 35 Community Health Centers, and 50 block PHCs which are scattered throughout the state. The
average base cost of civil works is Rs. 13.8 million for a District Headquarters Hospital, Rs. 4.4 million
for a Community Health Center, and Rs. 1.1 million for block PHCs.
The scattered number of institutions and the low cost of renovation/extension works will not attract foreign
bidders to participate. Therefore, ICB will not be suitable and NCB will be the appropriate procedure to be
used as it may attract national firms to participate. However, the remote location of some institutions and
the low cost of works of some call for allowing such works to be procured under contracting and
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors eligible under the
guidelines. These methods are to be used for renovating 50 block PHCs, 68 Surveillance Laboratories, the
PMU office, and constructing 5 electro-mechanical workshops. The total estimated cost of these facilities
is Rs. 115 million (13% of all civil works), with all contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$ 30,000. Direct contracting will be limited to less than 5% of the civil works costs. Past experience
has shown the need in certain cases to support the NCB with such procedures as indicated above. It is
estimated that most of the civil works on District Hospitals (Main and Female facilities and with more than
250 beds) and will require prior review. These are estimated to cost Rs. 350 million or $8 million,
representing approximately 30% of the civil works costs.
B. Goods. Procurement of goods (equipment, furniture, drugs and supplies) would be phased on an
annual basis in accordance with the requirement of the project activities. Phasing of the procurement of
goods will be closely sequenced with the civil works program.
-43 -



Equipment: Procurement of large and more expensive equipment that would be bulked together would be
purchased through ICB procedures. These include items such as x-ray machines, ultra-sound scanners,
endoscopes, anesthetic equipment, blood-gas analyzer, etc. Procurement of other minor equipment
expected to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 per contract will be undertaken through NCB
procedures. These include such items as computers, lab supply, glassware, etc. About 17% by value of all
procurement of equipment is expected to cost less than the equivalent of US$30,000 per contract, which
will be procured through other methods of procurement (DGS&D rate contracts are acceptable under
national shopping).
Furniture: Office furniture is required for the PMU, Regional and hospital offices, in addition to hospital
furniture (e.g., stretchers, beds). These will be procured in packages less than the equivalent of
US$200,000 per contract, following NCB procedures. Small value packages below the equivalent of
US$30,000 will be procured through national shopping.
Pharmaceuticals and medical supplies: In the first year of the project, fifty essential drugs costing Rs. 50
million will be purchased. As the value of each drug contract will be less than the equivalent of
US$30,000, national shopping will be used. In subsequent years, a combination of ICB, NCB, and
shopping will be used for the procurement of drugs, vaccines, and medical supplies.
Vehicles: The main types of vehicles to be procured will be ambulances and utility vehicles. Procurement
methods for vehicles will be ICB, when bulk purchased for packages over US$100,000 equivalent per
contract. This would comprise about 97% of all vehicles. The remaining vehicles will be procured over
the length of the project period in packages equivalent to US$100,000 or less per contract for which the
method of procurement will be national shopping.
C. Services. Procurement of consultancy services is planned for a wide range of project activities,
particularly to undertake design and evaluation services. The range of services include civil works designs,
and design of key software such as for the HMIS, performance appraisal systems, management systems,
and training. Consultancy contracts would also be used during implementation for equipment repairs,
procurement agents, training, NGO services and studies. Consultancies play a key role in the evaluation of
pilot schemes, and for independent monitoring of project performance, and auditing of staff transfers,
procurement, and use of funds. Most of the consultancy services would be procured through QCBS
(estimated to be about 95% of the value of consultancy contracts). Contracts, all estimated to cost less
than Rs. 3 million per contract, and where there are limited choices of qualified consultants, would be
entered through single source procedures, or selection based on consultant's qualifications. Internal
financial and procurement audits will be procured using the least cost selection method.
Procurement methods (Table A)
IDA financed works and goods will be procured using Bank Guidelines -- Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and
January 1999). Project-financed consultants would be recruited according to Guidelines -- Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999). Attachment I to Annex 6 sunmmarizes procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis
of National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Specific procurement arrangements are summnarized in Table A
below. For procurement under the project, the Bank's standard bid documents shall be used.
* Contracts for civil works estimated to cost over US$30,000 equivalent will be carried out following
- 44 -



National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures.
* Contracts for civil works estimated to cost equivalent of US$30,000 or less will be procured:
(a) under quotations solicited from at least three qualified contractors;
(b) by direct contracting; or
(c) as a last resort, through Force Account.
Procurement of goods (equipment, vehicles, drugs and supplies) would be bulked to the extent possible
and would generally be procured as follows:
(a) individual contracts for goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost more than US$200,000 would be
procured using ICB;
(b) individual contracts with an estimated value between US$30,000 and US$200,000 would be
procured using NCB (except for vehicles);
(c) individual contracts for vehicles with an estimated value of more than US$ 100,000 would be
procured using ICB;
(d) individual contracts for vehicles with an estimated value of US$100,000 or less would be procured
using shopping procedures;
(e) individual purchases of off-the-shelf items through national shopping procedures (DGS&D rate
contracts are acceptable under national shopping) would be acceptable in packages of less than
US$30,000 up to the aggregate limnits as outlined in the procurement tables; and
(f) other items or small groups of items such as supply of furniture, instruments, medicines and
MIS/IEC materials costing less than US$5,000 equivalent per contract may be procured through
direct contracting or national shopping procedures up to the aggregate limits as outlined in the
procurement tables.
* Contracts for maintenance of buildings, equipment, and vehicles may be awarded through:
(a) National Shopping
(b) Direct Contracting; or
(c) Force Account.
-45 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
International    National         Other             Total
Competitive    Competitive
Bidding        Bidding
1. Civil Works                                    20.37           2.73             23.10
(17.32)         (2.32)           (19.64)
2. Goods
Furniture                                      1.48            0.49              1.97
(1.34)         (0.45)           (1.79)
Vehicles                        3.76                           0.66             4.42
(3.39)                        (0.60)            (3.99)
Equipment                       4.17           13.55           3.13             20.85
(3.80)        (12.35)         (2.83)           (18.98)
Medicine                        5.54           13.30           3.33             22.17
(5.13)        (12.30)         (3.08)            (20.51)
Medical and other supplies                     0.63            0.94              1.57
(0.58)         (0.87)           (1.45)
IEC Materials                                  1.42            0.47              1.89
(1.28)         (0.43)            (1.71)
3. Services
Training & Workshops                                           11.80            11.80
(11.80)          (11.80)
Consultants, Studies,                                          14.52            14.52
Professional Services, NGOs
(14.52)          (14.52)
Contractual Services                                           3.12              3.12
(3.12)           (3.12)
4. Miscellaneous
Salaries of Additional Staff                                   7.08             7.08
(4.27)           (4.27)
Operational Expenditures                                       2.12             2.12
(1.22)           (1.22)
Building Maintenance                                           3.87              3.87
(2.02)           (2.02)
Equipment Maintenance                                          5.30              5.30
______________                     (2.72)           (2.72)
Vehicle Hire                                                   3.78              3.78
(2.26)           (2.26)
Total                           13.47          50.75           63.34    j      127.58
(12.32)       (45.17)          (52.51)         (110.00)
Note:  Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.
"Other" method of procurement includes direct contracting, comparison of price quotations (shopping),
Force Account, and consulting services.
- 46 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                  Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure     QCBS      QBS        $FB       LCS        Co       Other     N.B.F.  TOai Cose
CaSeqsry__                _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _   __ _ _ ___             _ _ _   __  _ _ _
A. Firms           27.24      0.00      0.00      0.10      0.00       1.35      0.00      28.69
(27.24)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.10)    (0.00)     (1.35)    (0.00)    (28.69)
B. Individuals      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.25       0.50      0.00       0.75
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.25)    (0.50)    _(0.00)    (0.75)
Total  27.24      0.00      0.00      0.10       0.25      1.85      0.00      29.44
(27.24)   (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.10)    (0.25)    (1.85)    (0.00)    (29.44)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
* All contracts for works with an estimated cost of more than US$300,000 equivalent.
* All contracts for goods with an estimated cost of more than US$200,000 equivalent.
* The first two NCB contracts each for goods and works regardless of the value.
*  Consultants' contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or
more for individuals.
-47 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure               Value per Contract              Procurement                    Contracts Subject to
Category                   (Threshold)                      Method                         Prior Review
1. Works
<= US$30,000 up to an       Solicitation of three bids;      Post review only
aggregate value of          direct contracting; or force account
US$3,000,000 equivalent
> US$30,000                 National Competitive Bidding (NCB)  First two NCB contracts of any value,
and all contracts above US$300,000
equivalent by prior review in
accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines. All
others by post review.
2. Goods
(a) Equipment, furniture,    < US$5,000 up to an aggregate  Direct contracting or shopping  Post review only
medicines, materials, medical and  value of US$500,000    procedures
other supplies
<= US$30,000 up to an       National Shopping procedures     Post review only
aggregate value of          (including DGS&D rate contracts)
US$10,480,000 equivalent
US$30,000 - 200,000 up to an   National Competitive Bidding  First two NCB contracts by prior
aggregate value of                                           review. All others by post-review.
US$31,130,000 equivalent
> US$200,000               International Competitive Bidding  All contracts by prior review in
accordance with paragraphs 2 and of
the Appendix I to the Guidelines
(b) Vehicles                 < US$100,000 up to an        National Shopping procedures     Post review only
aggregate value of US$300,000  (includes DGS&D rate contracts)
equivalent
> US$100,000                International Competitive Bidding  All contracts above US$200,000 by
prior review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 & 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines
-48 -



Expenditure                Value per Contract                Procurement                    Contracts Subject to
Category                       (Threshold)                      Method                        Prior Review
3. Services
(a) Professional services (including >US$200,000 equivalent per contract  Quality and Cost Based  Prior review of all consultant contracts
procurement agency) and studies                                  Selection (QCBS)             shall be governed by the following:
(b) Professional services,    <US$200,000 equivalent up to an    QCBS with short list (may be
contractual services, studies, and   aggregate value of US$2,000,000  comprised entirely of national   (i) with respect to each contract for the
large NGO contracts                                              consultants)                employment of consulting firms
(c) Professional services,    <US$ 100,000 equivalent up to an   (i) QCBS with short list (may be  stimated to cost the equivalent of
contractual services, NGO     aggregate value of US$20,5 10,000    comprised entirely of national   US$200,000 or more, procedures set
contracts, studies, training,                                    consultants)                forth in paragraphs 1,2 [other than the
workshops and fellowships                                        (ii) Selection in accordance with third sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)]
paragraph 3.14 of the       and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant
Consultant Guidelines including Guidelines shall apply.
selection criteria
(iii) Single source selection in   (ii) With respect to each contract for
accordance with paragraphs 3.8  consulting firms estimated to cost the
to 3.11 of the Consultant   equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more, but
Guidelines                  less than the equivalent of US$200,000
(iv) Selection in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraphs
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant  1,2 [other than the second
Guidelines                  sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)] and 5
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply.
(iii) With respect to each contract for
the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the
qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms of employment of
the consultatns shall be fuisrnihed to the
Association for its prior review and
approval.
All other case: by post review.
(d) Service delivery contractors    <US$20,000 equivalent per contract   (i) Selection in accordance with Job description, minimum
and individual consultants    up to an aggregate value of        paragraph 3.19 of the       qualifications, terms of employment
US$ 1,000,000                     Consultant Guidelines and as    and selection procedures shall be
per project-specific guidelines   agreed with IDA.
agreed with IDA and noted in
the PIP
(ii) Selection of individual
consultants in accordance with
paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 of
Consultant Guidelines
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental Operational Costs and <=US$20,000 equivalent up to an
maintenance of buildings,     aggregate value of US$6,660,000 by:
equipment, vehicles, and hiring of
vehicles
(i) direct contracting up to an aggregate Direct contracting   Post Review only
value of US$ 1,000,000
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price  Solicitation of three bids  Post Review only
quotations obtained from at least three
qualified contractors eligible under the
Guidelines
(iii) Force Account, as a last resort, up  Force Account       Post Review only
to an aggregate value of US$600,000
in a manner satisfactory to the
_Association
-49 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C. The disbursement will initially be made in
the traditional system (reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and
will be converted to Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursement after the financial
management system has been demonstrated to be operating satisfactorily. The target date for this
conversion is December 31, 2001.
In the interim period, however, the PMU will be required to submit a report on sources and uses of funds
by disbursement category and procurement reports on contracts over US$ 100,000 to IDA on a quarterly
basis. The form and contents of these reports have been agreed between IDA and PMU.
Current Financial Management System
The implementing agency for the Project is a Project Monitoring Unit based in DOMHFW, GOUP.
DOMHFW has the following strengths in the area of financial management: (i) a budgeting and
accounting system has been established and is operational; (ii) staff are trained to carry out basic
accounting functions; and (iii) a system of timely submission of accounts from PHC's/CHC's to the district
and from districts to the state level exists.
However, the Department follows the government accounting system, the main focus of which is on book
keeping and transactional control over expenditures. There is no concept of financial management
information being used for decision making and hence there is very limnited focus on meeting project
management information needs. Project financial statements indicating sources and uses of funds
(including information on project expenditure by components, types of expenditure, etc.) are not prepared.
Audit of expenditure statements is carried out by the State Accountant General (Audit). The focus of the
audit is on authentication of individual transactions, verification of compliance with Government
procedures, and certification of reimbursement claims made to the Bank. The financial system is operated
manually.
Specific areas to be strengthened
The following aspects need to be addressed to ensure that a satisfactory financial management system
commensurate with the size and scope of the project is established:
(a) Staffing and training: Financial functions should be staffed by suitably qualified accounts
professionals. The finance department at PMU should be supported by a full time qualified chartered
accountant who can actively aid in setting up the financial management system in the project. The
regional offices also need to be suitably strengthened with accounting professionals. At the district
level, there is a need to identify accounts personnel who will be working exclusively on the project. The
entire financial staff need to be trained in the operation of the computerized FMS. Project managers
and financial staff need to be sensitized on the importance of financial management for effective project
management;
(b) Analyzing financial information and using it as a decision making tool: Financial reports which
provide timely and quality information on the financial performance of the project should be prepared.
The accounting system should ensure classification and compilation/analysis of accounting data in such
a manner as to provide useful and timely information for project monitoring;
- 50 -



(c) Transparency of project operations and establishment of clear financial policies and procedures: all
stakeholders need to be provided with clear, simple, user-friendly and consistent financial information
about the project's performance and fnancial status;
(d) Ensuring satisfactory audit arrangements: including timely submission of audit report and certification
of project financial statements adopting acceptable auditing standards;
(e) Ensuring linking of physical progress with the financial progress;
(f) Having a simple and effective monitoring mechanism to ensure effective monitoring of a large number
of widely dispersed entities; and
(g) Using computers in the area of financial management. Currently a completely manual system operates
which is antiquated and tedious.
The PMU is developing a comprehensive computerized fnancial management system which will address
these issues.
Proposed Financial Management System
The proposed project financial management system is being documented in a Financial Management
System Manual, which is a part of the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan on financial management.
The Financial Management System Manual would also serve as a reference document for all project staff.
The Financial Management Manual would be periodically updated based on implementation experience.
The Manual includes the following aspects of financial management:
(a) budgeting and flow of funds;
(b) accounting system (including chart of accounts, formats of books, accounting and financial
procedures);
(c) financial reporting (including formats of reports, and linkages with Chart of Accounts);
(d) staffing and training aspects including job responsibilities;
(e) auditing arrangements including Terms of Reference;
(f) procurement and contract administration monitoring system; and
(g) financial and accounting policies.
Budgeting and Flow of Funds
The project will be budgeted under a single identifiable budget line item in the budget of GOUP. On
approval of budget by the legislature, GOUP will release the funds requirement for the first quarter to the
PMU to be deposited in a separate bank account to be maintained for the purpose by the PMU. PMU, in
retur, after keeping a part of the expenditure for the usage at PMU level, will pass on the funds to the
districts through banking channels. The districts will advance funds to the CHCs/PHCs on an imprest
basis. Transfers from State Govt. to the PMU account would be on a quarterly basis, and from PMU to
the districts on a monthly basis.
Accounting and Internal Controls
The overall framework of the system is given below:
- 51 -



* The financial management system would cover all project-related transactions i.e., all sources of funds
would be accounted for and reflected in the project financial statements; and similarly all project
expenditures would be reflected in the project financial statements.
* A Chart of Accounts is being developed. The Chart of Accounts will enable the expenditure data to be
captured and classified by project components and expenditure categories. The Chart of Accounts will
have linkages to: (i) government budget heads/categories; and (ii) disbursement categories. Similarly,
the Chart of Accounts enables data on sources of funds to be captured.
* The financial management system is being computerized. The computerized system will be installed
and operated at the PMU, the five regional offices and all the districts. Accounts of the PMU, the
regional offices and all the districts will be consolidated for project financial reports. However the
operations at the PHC/CHC level will continue to be on a manual basis and their data will be captured
in the computerized system at the district level.
* Standard books/records of accounts (cash and bank-books, journals, ledgers, trial balance, etc.) would
be maintained at the PMU, regional offices and the districts using an integrated computerized
accounting system. A register of fixed assets, indicating assets created through the project or acquired
under the project, would also be maintained using the computerized. system.
Accounting for user charges: In order to ensure greater autonomy at the operating level, the user charges
collected at each District Hospital/CHC will be retained by the District Hospital/CHC which raises the user
charges. The user charges will be deposited in a bank account to be operated by a local committee
comprising of the CMO and public representatives to be created by a government order. The funds raised
through user charges will be used at the discretion of the local comrnittee so established.
Transaction Information Flow and Accounting
All the accounting entities viz. PMU, regional offices, districts (all the three units - Chief Medial Officer
(CMO), Chief Medical Superintendent - Male (CMS - M) and Chief Medical Superintendent - Female
(CMS - F), Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Primary Health Centres (PHCs) will generate and
maintain the transaction vouchers for their various receipts and expenditures made at their level. However,
a monitoring system will be established at the state level to monitor the usage of funds at regions and at the
regional level to monitor the funds at districts.
Consolidation of project accounts would be done: (i) at the district level by consolidating the accounts of
CMO, CMS - M (which in turn will be the consolidation of accounts of all the PHCs/CHCs in the district
with the accounts of CMS - M) and CMS - F; (ii) at the regional level by consolidating the accounts of the
region with all the districts in the region and then; (iii) at the PMU level by consolidation of accounts of
PMU and all the regions. The computerized system will be used for the consolidation at district, regional
and the PMU level. Data transfer would be handled through: (i) an integrated computer network; or (ii)
periodic data transfer through Electronic Mail or floppy diskettes.
Internal Controls
Internal control mechanisms would include the following:
* Establishment of appropriate budgeting systems, and regular monitoring of actual financial
performance with budgets and targets and monitoring of physical and financial progress. Physical data
on key items would be captured in the accounting system to enable monitoring of physical data.
* Development and adoption of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
- 52 -



would govern fnancial management of and accounting for the project.
* At the transaction level, the establishment of procedures and systems for ensuring standard internal
controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of authorization,
bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, etc.
* Establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism.
Financial Reporting
Quarterly Financial Management Reports will include:
* comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including on aspects
such as sources of funds (indicating separately funds from beneficiaries) and application of funds
(classified by components, sub-components, sunimarized expenditure categories, etc.).
*   comparison of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances on key physical
parameters and unit rates for selected key items.
* forecasts for the next 2 quarters.
* information on procurement management for major contracts.
Project Financial Statements and Financial Management Reports would be generated from the
computerized financial management system. PMU would generate quarterly financial management reports
from the integrated computerized financial management system for the whole project. The districts and the
regions will also have the capability of generating these reports for their own monitoring needs. These
reports and the Withdrawal Application (which would be based on the financial forecasts and actual
expenditures classified by disbursement category) would also be used by the Bank for quarterly
disbursements in accordance with the disbursement procedures under LACI.
Staffng
A Financial Controller has been appointed to head the Finance Unit at the PMU. The Financial Controller
is an accounting professional - preferably a Chartered Accountant with about 8-10 years experience in a
similar position. The Financial Controller will head the finance and accounting team of the project and
have overall responsibility for all financial and accounting aspects and will provide leadership and strategic
direction on financial aspects of the projects, including development of financial capability at the district
level. The Financial Controller will be supported by 3 accounts officers and an adequate number of
assistants to carry out the accounting and monitoring functions of the project.
The finance unit at the regional level will be headed by an Accounts Officer. He will be assisted by two
assistant accounts officers, with one of them with an information technology background. They will be
supported by an adequately sized team of accountants.
- 53 -



At the district level, three accountants - representing CMO, CMS (Male) and CMS (Femnale) will be in
place. They will be identified out of the existing staff available at the district level and will work
exclusively on the project.
At the CHC/PHC level, the simple accounting tasks required will be undertaken by the existing
accountants/accounts clerks who are currently performing these duties.
An intensive training program has been developed to ensure that the staff at all the levels are adequately
trained in the computerized financial management system. The initial training will be imparted by the
consultants developing the computerized fnancial management system. Subsequently, consultants would
be appointed at the regional levels to continue to impart such a training to the regional and districts staff on
an ongoing basis for such time as may be necessary to build capacity at these levels.
Auditing Arrangements
The financial statements of the project will be audited by an independent auditor, which includes the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India and his appointees. The annual audited project financial
statements would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of GOI's fiscal year. This report
will be monitored under the Bank's Audit Report Compliance System (ARCS).
In addition to the extemal audit, an internal audit will be conducted by a firm of chartered accountants to
assess the operation of the project financial management system, including review of internal control
mechanisms and procurement processes. Any issues arising in the external and interal audits, including
systemic issues would be promptly addressed. All implementing agencies would provide the auditor with
access to project-related documents and records, and infornation required by the auditor for the purposes
of the audit.
The audit report on special account maintained by DEA would include a summary of Special Acount
transactions and the closing balance held by RBI. The audit report on Special Account would also be
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each fiscal year. This report will also be
monitored under ARCS.
Time Table for Implementation of Project Financial Management System and Next Steps
The proposed computerized Project Financial Management System (PFMS) is being developed with the
help of consultants specifically appointed for the purpose of designing, developing and instituting the
computerized PFMS in the project. By appraisal, the PFMS manual had been drafted. The form and
contents of PMRs have been agreed to with the PMU. The following key activities will need to be
completed to successfully implement the computerized financial management system in the project.
-54 -



Activity                                                 Target Date
Finalization of FMS Manual                                    February 28, 2000
Appointment of a Financial Controller                         March 31, 2000
Development of the software and testing                       May 31, 2000
Appointment of other staff at PMU, Regions and Districts      July 31, 2000
Procurement of computers                                      July 31, 2000
Training of the personnel on the software                     September 30, 2000
Implementation of the computerized financial management system  December 31, 2000
Conversion to PMR based system of disbursement                December 31, 2001
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Categor         Amount in U$miltion           Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                19.64                         85%
Goods (Equipment, furniture,               48.43              100% of foreign expenditures;
medicines, materials, medical and other                    100% of local expenditures (ex-factor
supplies, and vehicles)                                                 cost);
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Consultants, professional services,        29.44                   100% (net of taxes)
NGO contracts, studies, training, and
workshops
Incremental Operating and Maintenance      12.49          80% of local expenditures incurred until
Costs                                                             December 31, 2002;
50% of expenditures from January 1,
2003 until December 31, 2004;
_ 
Total Project Costs                        110.00        .
Total                                      110.00
Special account:
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India, and would be operated by the
Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of GOI. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would
be US$7 million. That represent about 4 months of estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The
Special Account would be operated in accordance with the Bank's operational policies.
- 55 -



Attachment I to Annex 6
With reference to the procedures for undertaking procurement on the basis of National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) referred to in Part C, paragraph 1 of Section I, Schedule 1, to the Project Agreement, an
understanding was reached that all NCB contracts to be financed from the Credit under the project would
follow procedures satisfactory to the Association, which are:
[1]    Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the Government of India Task
Force [and as amended from time to time], shall be used for bidding.
[2]    Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids.
[3]    No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign bidders,
state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given State.
[4]    Except with the prior concurrence of the Association, there shall be no negotiation of price
with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
[5]    Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond control of the Borrower,
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the
Association [ i ] for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and [ ii]
for all subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period.
[6]    Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence of the Association. The
system of rejecting bids outside a pre-determined margin or " bracket " of prices shall not
be used.
[7]    Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under National
Shopping procedures.
- 56 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
Project Schadule                                  Planned                     Adtual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18
First Bank mission (identification)             05/20/98                     09/11/98
Appraisal mission departure                     01/24/2000                   01/23/2000
Negotiations                                    03/15/2000                   03/06/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/01/2000
Prepared by:
Department of Medical, Health and Family Welfare, Government of Uttar Pradesh
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
David Peters                      Senior Public Health Specialist (Task Leader)
Tawhid Nawaz                      Principal Human Resources Specialist (Team Leader)
Nina Anand                        Team Assistant
Kevin Brown                       Management and Institutional Specialist
Mam Chand                         Procurement Specialist
Sadia Chowdhury                   Senior Public Health Specialist
Sara Gonzalez Flavell             Senior Legal Counsel
Rie Hiraoka                       Social Scientist
Pradeep Kakkar                    Communications Management Specialist
Preeti Kudesia                    Public Health Specialist
Rajat Narula                      Financial Management Specialist
David Porter                      Biomedical Engineer
Shreelata Rao-Seshadri            Social Scientist
Robert Remis                      Disease Surveillance Specialist
Vijay Rewal                       Architect
Maj-Lis Voss                      Operations Analyst
Abdo Yazbeck                      Health Economist
- 57 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Department of Medical, Health, and Family Welfare, Government of Uttar Pradesh. January 2000. Draft
Project Implementation Plan.
Dewan VK. Project Preparation Facility Plan. May 1999.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Hiraoka R. Health Care Access in Uttar Pradesh (draft). Decemnber, 1999.
IDA. Project Concept Document: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project. March, 1999.
IDA. Aide Memoire, July 1997.
IDA. Aide Memoire, May 1998.
IDA. Aide Memoire, November 1998.
IDA. Aide Memoire, April 1999.
IDA. Aide Memoire, November 1999.
IDA. Aide Memoire, January 2000.
Nawaz T, Rao Seshadri S and Hinchliffe K. India: Policy and Finance Strategies for Strengthening
Primary Health Care Services. World Bank, 1995.
Nawaz T, Rao Seshadri S and Hinchliffe K. India: New Directions in Health Sector Development at the
State Level: An Operational Perspective. World Bank, 1997.
C. Other
Administrative Staff College of India. Burden of Disease and Cost-Effectiveness Study. 1999
Basu, S. Stakeholder Analysis for the Proposal on Drug Control Administration, January, 2000.
Brown K. Preparing the Policy and Management Sub-Components, May, 1999.
Brown K, Kakkar P. Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project. Institutional Assessment.
March 2000.
Department of Medical and Health Services, Government of Uttar Pradesh. Holistic Health Approach:
Strengthening of Hospital Facilities.
Gupta DB. Public Sector Health Expenditure Analysis. 1999
Mahal A, et al. Benefit-Incidence Analysis from the 52nd Round of the NSSO (draft), March 2000.
Mishra P. Health Facilities Baseline Survey, 2000.
Rohde and Viswanathan. The Rural Private Practitioner. Delhi: Oxford University Press, 1995.
Srivastava. Health Manpower and Training Needs Assessment. 1999
STEM. Beneficiary Needs Assessment. 1999
STEM. Analysis of the Role of the Private Sector in the Delivery of Health Care in Uttar Pradesh. 1999
STEM. Baseline Performance Survey of Health Facilities in Uttar Pradesh (draft), 2000.
*Including electronic files
- 58 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions          disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                               IBRD        IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
IN-PE-41264    1999 GOI                         WTRSHD MGMT HILLS II                     85.00       50.00        0.00      134.38      0.00       0.00
IN-PE-45050    1999 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         RAJASTHAN DPEP                            0.00       85.70        000        84.31      0.00       0.00
IN-PE-45051    1999 GOI                         2ND NATL HIV/AIDS CO                      0.00      191.00        0.00      188.45      0.00      0.00
IN-PE-49537    1999 GOI                         AP POWER APLI                           210.00        0.00        0.00      199.83     11.83       0.00
IN-PE-50637    1999 GO                         TN URBAN DEV II                         105.00        0.00        0.00      105.00      0.00      0.00
IN-PE-50646    1999 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         UP SODIC LANDS II                         0.00      194.10        0.00      189.62      6.17      0.00
IN-PE-506s1    1999 GOI                         MAHARASH HEALTH SYS                       0.00      134.0D        0.00      127.99    131.01      0.00
IN-PE-10496    1998 GOI                         ORISSA HEALTH SYS                         0.00       76.40        0.00       72.55      1.99      0.00
IN-PE-10561    1998 GOI                         NATLAGRTECHNOLOGY                        96.80      100.00        0.00      189.78     14.20      0.00
IN-PE-35160    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         HARYANA POWER APL-I                      60.00        0.00        0.00       38.19     14.18      0.00
IN-PE-35169    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         U.P. FORESTRY                             0.00       52.94        0.00       44.86      4.44      0.00
IN-PE-35824    1998 GOI                         UP DIV AGRC SUPPORT                      79.90       50.00        0.00      124.48     19.35      0.00
IN-PE-35827    1998 GOI                         WOMEN & CHILD DEVLPM                      0.00      300.00        0.00      297.75      0.00      0.00
IN-PE-38021    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         DPEP IHI (BIHAR)                          0.00      152.00        0.00      136.06     23.92       0.00
IN-PE-49385    1998 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                    301.30      241.90        0.00      469.19      5.45      0.00
IN-PE-49477    1998 CIL                         KERALA FORESTRY                           0.00       39.00        0.00       34.77     -0.74      0.00
IN-PE-50638    1998 GOI                         UP BASIC ED 11                            0.00       59.40        0.00       29.75     -1.80      0.00
IN-PE-9979     1998 GOI                         COAL SECTOR REHAB                       530.00        2.00       15.00      433.84     40.82     40.82
IN-PE-10473    1997 GOI                         TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                      0.00      142.40        0.00      126.88     53.54       0.00
IN-PE-10s11    1997 GOI                         MALARIA CONTROL                           0.00      164.80        0.00      148.70     29.73       0.00
IN-PE-10531    1997 GOI                         REPRODUCTIVE HEALTHI                      0.00      248.30        0.00      229.98     64.51      0.16
IN-PE-35158    1997 GO                         AP IRRIGATION III                       175.00      150.00        0.00     252.98      32.20      0.00
IN-PE-36062    1997 GOI                         ECODEVELOPMENT                            0.00       28.00        0.00       21.98      4.13      0.00
IN-PE-43728    1997 GO                          ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                     0.00       50.00        0.00       42.38     11.29      0.00
IN-PE-44449    1997 GOVTOF INDIA                RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                         0.00       19.50        0.00       18.88      7.12      0.00
IN-PE-45s00    1997 GOI                         TA ST'S RD INFRADEV                      51.50        0.00        0.00       32.49     17.99       0.00
IN-PE-49301    1997 GOVT OF INDIA               A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                      50.00      100.00        0.00      118.99     50.67       0.00
IN-PE-9995     1897 GOI                         STATE HIGHWAYS ClAP)                    350.00        0.00        0.00      327.32     42.32      0.00
IN-PE-10480    1996 GO                         B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                       167.00       25.00        0.00      119.89     95.74      0.00
IN-PE-10484    1999 GOI                         UP RURAL WATER                           59.60        0.00        0.00       50.24     11.33       0.00
IN-PE-10485    1996 GOI                         HYDROLOGY PROJECT                         0.00      142.00        0.00       93.33     54.34      0.00
IN-PE-10529    1996 IL&FS                       ORISSAWRCP                                0.00      290.90        0.00      155.24      5.97       0.00
IN-PE-35170    1996 GOI                         ORISSA POWER SECTOR                     350.00        0.00        0.00      322.28    102.28       0.00
IN-PE-35821    1998 GOI                         DISTRICT PRIM EDUC2                       0.00      425.20        0.00      298.10     11.50       0.00
IN-PE-35825    1998 GO                          STATE HEALTH SYS II                      0.00      350.00        0.00      259.15    116.27       0.00
IN-PE-39935    1998 GOI                         ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                     200.00        5.00        0.00      178.91     99.84       0.00
IN-PE-43310    1996 GOI                         COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                      0.00       63.00        0.00       44.70     15.58       0.00
IN-PE-10461    1995 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA         MADRAS WATER SUP II                     275.80        0.00      189.30       53.37    171.86       6.30
IN-PE-10463    1995 GOI                         INDUS POLLUTION PREV                    143.00       25.00        1.72      142.89     90.05      88.33
IN-PE-10464    1995 GOI                         DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                        0.00     260.30        0.00      123.72     42.05       0.00
IN-PE-10476    1995 GOVTOFINDIA                 TAMIL NADU WRCP                           0.00      282.90        0.00      208.09    117.37       0.00
IN-PE-10489    1995 GOI                         AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                      0.00      133.00        0.00       63.06     12.17       0.00
IN-PE-10503    1995 GO                          AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                     0.00       59.50        0.00       33.18     28.00       0.00
IN-PE-10506    1895 GO                          MP FORESTRY                              0.00       58.00        0.00       15.79      9.67       0.00
IN-PE-10522    1995 GO0                          ASSAM RURAL INFRA                        0.00      126.00        0.00       95.78     42.46       0.00
IN-PE-10563    1995                             FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                    700.00        0.00      250.00      216.97   -233.03      0.00
IN-PE-10448    1994                             FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                      0.00       47.00        0.00       20.08     38.61       5.28
IN-PE-10449    1994                             ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                   0.00       77.40        0.00       21.22     12.04       0.00
IN-PE-10455    1994                             BLINDNESS CONTROL                         0.00      117.80        0.00       80.26     40.27       0.00
IN-PE-10457    1994                             POPULATION IX                             0.00       88.60        0.00       49.48     21.70       0.00
- 59 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                               IBRD          IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
IN-PE-9870     1994 GOVT. OF INDIA                CONTAINER TRANSPORT                     94.00       0.00        0.00       67.92     63.93       -0.18
IN-PE-9964     1994 GOI                           WATER RES CONSOLID H                     0.00     258.00        0.00      136.97     78.91        0.00
IN-PE-10407    1993 GOI                           ADP - RAJASTHAN                          0.00     108.00        0.00       21.83     24.99        0.00
IN-PE-10408    1993 GOI                           BIHARPLATEAU                             0.00     117.00        0.00       48.54     55.32        0.00
IN-PE-10410    1993 GOI                           RENEWABLE RESOURCES                     75.00     115.00        0.00       68.28      98.17       0.00
IN-PE-10416    1993 GO                           PGC POWER SYSTEM                       350.00       0.00       75.00       41.79    112.19        0.00
IN-PE-10418    1993 GOI                           KARNATAKAWS & ENVIS                      0.00      92.00        0.00       26.93      26.50       0.00
IN-PE-10424    1993 GOI                           NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                     0.0O      85.00        9.07       24.37      33.63       9.36
IN-PE-9955     1993 GOI                           UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                      0.0o     165.00        0.00       20.47     -5.30    -143.45
IN-PE-9959     1993 GO                           RUBBER                                  0.00       92.00       36.58       22.87     57.04       16.27
IN-PE-9961     1993 GOI                           UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                    0.00       54.70        0.00       12.76      8.33        0.00
IN-PE-9977     1993 GOI&STATES                    ICDSIIIBIHAR&MP)                         0.00     194.00        0.00      116.76     91.36      101.67
IN-PE-10390    1992 GOI                           MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                     0.00     124.00       16.18       32.36     48.55       31.87
IN-PE-9921     1992 GOI                           SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                     0.00      85.00       48.51       15.83     63.78       15.17
IN-PE-9946     1992 GOI                           NAT. HIGHWAYS If                       153.00     153.00        0.00      150.69    103.15        0.00
IN-PE-9963     1992 GOI                           POPULATION VIII                         0.00       79.00        0.00       55.10     53.91        0.00
IN-PE-9877     1991 GO]                           DAM SAFETY                              23.00     130.00       60.03       25.35     84.06        3.39
IN-PE-9988     1991                               TECH EDUC II                            0.00      307.10       51.37       72.53    131.94       68.41
IN-PE-9982     1990                               NOR REG TRANSM                         485.00       0.00        0.00      173.96    173.95        0.00
Total:    5,169.90    7,384.84     7s2.76    7,998.18   2,791.80    243.40
-60 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
0                IAAF                           0.00    0.00    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.11    0.00
1964175/79190      MUSCO                         0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.08    0.00
1978/87/91/93      HDFC                         40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00   40.00    0.00    2.29    0.00
1981               Nagarjuna Steel               0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1981/86/81191193/96  ITW Signode                 0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.55    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92   TISCO                         1.58    0.00   15.37    0.00    1.58    0.00    15.37    0.00
1981/90/93         M&M                           0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67    0.17    0.00    6.49    0.67
1984/90/94        India Lease                    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.44    0.00    0.86    0.00
1984/91            Bihar Sponge                 12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00   12.21    0.00    0.68    0.00
1986               EXB-NB Footwear               0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-City Mills                0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-TAN                       0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986               EXB-STG                       0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34    0.00    0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94      GESCO                         0.00    0.00   11.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.80    0.00
1986/93194195      India Equipment               0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.80
1987               Hindustan                     2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93      Titan Watches                 0.34    0.00    1.03    0.00    0.34    0.00     1.03    0.00
1988/90/92         Tata Telecom                  0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00
1988/94            GKN Invel                     0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.40    0.00
1989               AEC                           9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.28    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               UCAL                          0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.63    0.00
1989/90/94         Tata Electric                24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00   24.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/91            Gujarat State                 2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.17    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989/95           JSB India                      0.00    0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.21    0.00
1990               HOEL                          0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00
1990               TDICI-VECAUS II               0.00    0.00    1.23    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.23    0.00
1990/92            CESC                         39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60   39.49    0.00    0.00   53.60
1990/93/94/98      IL & FS                      16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00   16.50    1.81    6.23    5.00
1990/94            ICICI-IFGL                    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00
1990/95            ICICI-SPIC Fine               0.00    0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.88    0.00
1991/93            Triveni                       0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00
1991/96            VARUN                         0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.35    0.00
1992               Indus VC Mgt Co               0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1992               Info Tech Fund                0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00
1992               Indus VCF                     0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.00    0.00
1992               SKF Bearings                  1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93            Arvind Mills                  0.00    0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    17.10    0.00
1992/94/97         Ispat Industries             30.35    0.00   15.41    0.00   30.35    0.00    15.41    0.00
1992/95            IL&FS Venture                 0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.05    0.00
1992/96/97         NICCO-UCO                     6.13    0.00    0.50    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.50    0.00
1993/94/96         IndoRama                     18.75    0.00   11.98    7.50   18.75    0.00    11.98    7.50
1993/97            20TH Century                 11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44   11.66    0.00    0.80    0.44
1994               Chowgule                     12.63    0.00    4.58   19.38   12.63    0.00    4.58   19.38
1994               Centurion Growth              0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt              0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00
1994               DLF Cement                    7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63    7.70    0.00    4.94   10.63
1994               Gujarat Ambuja                0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23    0.00
- 61 -



Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1994               Taurus Starshare              0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17    0.00
1994/97            GVK                          26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19   26.66    0.00    7.45   30.19
1994/98            Global Trust                  5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00    5.00    5.00    3.19    0.00
1995               Centurion Bank                0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                     15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.91    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               GE Capital                    8.75    0.00    5.00    0.00    8.75    0.00    4.39    0.00
1995               Prism Cement                 14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50   14.06    0.00    5.02   10.50
1995               Rain Calcining               19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00   19.25    0.00    5.46    0.00
1995               Sara Fund                     0.00    0.00    6.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.60    0.00
1995/98            RPG Communicatns              0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    11.25    0.00
1996               India Direct Fnd              0.00    0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.52    0.00
1996               Indus II                      0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland              10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/99            Moser Baer                   20.05    0.00   10.14    0.00    2.30    0.00    10.14    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic              0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00
1997               CEAT                         20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Duncan Hospital               7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                          0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00
1997               Owens Coming                 25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SAPL                          0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00
1997               SREI                         15.00    0.00    3.00    0.00   14.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1997               Walden-Mgt India              0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00
1997               WIV                           0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.63    0.00
1998               IDFC                          0.00    0.00   15.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    15.46    0.00
Total Portfolio:      427.09    6.81  238.54  138.71  394.34    6.81   219.76  138.71
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project
919/99
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              SoAtL Low- 
India     Asia  Income         Development dlamond-
Population, mid-year (millions)                       979.7      1305      3515                  Life expectancy
G3NP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     430        430       520
GNP (Atias method, US$ billions)                      421.3        555      1,844
Average annual growth. 1992-98
Population (%)                                            1.7     t.8        t.7
Labor force (%)                                          2.1       23         1.9     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Mlst recent esttmate (latest year svatisgbte 1992-9)                                  capita                        enromert
Poverty (% ot populafion below national poverty line)    35
Urban population (% of total population)                 28         27        31
Life expectancy at btrth (years)                         63         62        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 71         77        89
Child malnutrition (% of childrel under 5)               53         sa         .                Access to safe water
Access to safe water f% of population)                   85         81        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15.)                     47         49        32
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   100        100       108      -India            Low-income group
Mate                                                  109        10g       113
Femae                                                  90         90       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (USs billions)                           102.7    247.8      397.1     420.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 20.4     22.6       23.1      23.4                      Trade
Exports of goods and serviceWGOP               6,6       5.5      10.5      10.7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    211      20.1       19.6      20.0
Gross national savings/GDP                       .      20.5      21.8      21.9
CurrentaccountbalanchlGOP                      1.3      -2.4      -1.3      -1.4            .                       Ie      n
Interest paymentaIGOP                          0.3       0.7       1.0       0.9      Domestc                       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                14.1      19.4      23.5      22.4      Savings
Totof debt service/axports                    15.3      32.0      23.2       19.0
Present value of debtfGOP                        ..       ..      17.8
Present valueh of debt/exports                  ..        ..    135.8
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       199S   1999-03
(average armusi growth)
GDP                                   4.4      5.7       7.3       5.0        8.0       -     tndia   --  Low-income group
GNP per capita                        2.1      3.8       5.8       3.4       4.7
Exports of;goods and serviCes         3.4     12.0       7.0      101        4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            30
Agriculture                                   38.2      31.4      29.3       27.5
Industry                                      23.0      26.2      26.1       26.1     l
Manufacturing                                15.5     16.1       16.8      16.8      0
Services                                      38.9      42.3      44.7      46.4    *ro       9
Private consumption                           69.3      68.2      70.2      68.9    .z2
General government consumption                 9.6      11.7      10.2       11.1                     GDI    -GDP
Imports of goods and services                  5.9       8.1      14.0       14.1
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    2.6       3.7        9.4      -1.0    40
Industry                                       5.2       6.6       6.0        5.9    30
Manufacturing                                 5.5      7.1        7.7       6.8    20
Services                                       5.5       7.2       8.0        8.2    is
Private consumption                            4.8       5.1      10.6        2.0     o
General government consumption                 6.9       6.6      11.3       19.4   *.0      93   94   Ss   9x   97   an
Gross domestic investment                      4.2       6.4      -1.3        7.7    -20
Imports of goods and services                  8.7       8.9      10.3       12.2             -Exports          QImports
Gross national product                         4.3       5.7       7.5        5.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-63 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestkc prices                                1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            20
Consumer prices                                -7.6       8.8       9.4        6.8     ' 
Implicit GDP deflator                           5.9       6.5       7.9        5.6    10           _
Government finance                                                                             ,
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                          23.3       21.0     22.0              93    94    95    99    97    98
Current budget balance                                    1.5       0.4        0.0                    GDP deflator  -CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -12.3      -7.8       -8.9
TRADE
1977     1987       1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   10,420     34,133    35,680      600.009
Tea                                                    451        292       410
Iron                                                   428        481       475      409900
Manufactures                                          6,4568    25,490    26,022     4
Total imports (cif)                                   17,740     48,948    51,187      20,000
Food                                                  1,068      1,536     1,687     200
Fuel and energy                                       2,187      9,626     7,624            u     - i
Capital goods                                         5,074      8,413     7,140        o
92   93   949  95   96  97  99
Export price index (1995=100)                     ..      89         90        87
Import price index (1995=100)                             77        101       104                 *Exporta      *imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..     115         89        84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio(1)
fUSS millions)
Exports of goods and services                 6,800   13,637    41,607    45,109       o
Imports of goods and services                 6,080   19,962     55,696    59,297
Resource balance                                720   -6,325    -14,089   -14,188
Net income                                      -98   -2,045      -3,307    -3,521
Net current transfers                           692    2,327     12,367    11,830      1       I            1 1      1     1
Current account balance                       1.314   -6,043      -5.029    -5,879
Financing items (net)                        -1,314    6,114     10,256     9,475
Changes in net reserves                           0       -72     -5,227    -3,596     2-
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        3,747    7,200     26,050    28,757
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                8.9      12.8      35.5      37.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997      1998
(US$ mrllions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         14,471   48,124     93,435    94,404
IBRD                                         456    3,475       8,768     8,138                    G: 5.046 A: 8,138
IDA                                         3,333   10,529     17,616    17,912
Total debt service                            1,178    5,273     12,058    10,586
IBRD                                           88      469      1,514     1,482                                       : 17,912
IDA                                            30      152        365       381
Composition of net resource flows                                                      F: 36,574                         C:664
Official grants                               377      403        410       379                                       C e
Official creditors                          1,058    1,404        184       -65                                      D: 3,341
Private creditors                             -14    2,793       -147     2,520
Foreign direct investment                       0      208      2,651     3,525
Portfolio equity                                0        0      3,312     1,828                               E: 22,729
World Bank program
Commitments                                   315    1,790      1,532     1,755      A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                 610    1,297      1,592     1,373      a-iDA     D- Other multilateral   F Private
Principal repayments                           66      235      1,074     1,144      C -IMF                        G Short-term
Net flows                                     544    1,062        518       229
Interest payments                              52      386        804       719
Net transfers                                492       676       -287      -490
Development Economics                                                                                                      9/9199
- 64 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Uttar Pradesh Letter of Health Sector Development Policy: Policy Matrix
Issue           Effect                                Proposed Change or Action
1. Adequacy of the overall   Medical & Public health expenditure has   Recognising the link between basic public health
size of the health budget to  declined from 6.0% of the state revenue    provision and poverty alleviation, the Government
meet public health goals    expenditure in 1997-98 to 4.7% in 1998-99. will step up the allocations to the health sector
This level of health expenditures is  progressively (indicative targets are: 5%, 6% and
inadequate to provide essential primary    6.5% of state revenue expenditure in 2000-01,
health care together with a basic package of 2001-02, and 2002-03 respectively).
clinical/curative services.
2. Imbalances in public   An increasing wage bill (from 68% of total The State will make increased provision in the
expenditure on health.    expenditure in 1991-92 to 77% in 1997-98) allocation of the health budget for drugs &
ha resulted in declining operating budget,  hospital supplies, for maintenance of equipment
especially for maintenance and operating   and buildings and other non-wage operating
expenses (from 24% of total expenditure   expenditures. A beginning has been made in this
1991-92 to 13% in 1997-98). The share in  direction by increasing the medicine budget from
revenue expenditure of each sector-   Rs.36 Crores to Rs.70 Crores during the year
primary, secondary, and tertiary has been   1998-99. The State recognises the need for
fluctuatmg widely from year to year.  focusing attention on the primary and secondary
levels of health care and to step up allocations for
these levels.
3. Restrictive budget     Incremental budgeting results in poor  Phased introduction of flexible district level
preparation and           resource allocation at district and facility   planning and budgeting to meet local needs within
implementation           levels. Inflexibility of budget        resource constraints beginning with 10 districts in
implementation leads to local needs not    the initiation phase. This will include increased
being met.                            discretion for local managers to reallocate
budgets, and increased accountability for results.
4. Cost sharing and       Cost sharing has not been properly     The revised schedule of charges will be enforced
service improvement      implemented, resulting in low levels of    while protecting the poorest sections of society.
funding for supplies, operations and  The guiding principle of cost sharing would be to
maintenance, and diminishing          partly cover non-salary recurrent costs. Necessary
accountability to the public.         guidelines have been framed to exempt persons
living below the poverty line. Financial
management will be strengthened to account for
funds, and public committees at the facilities will
be introduced to monitor collections and
determine the use of funds. In the initial stage
50% of revenues raised by the institution will be
retained at the institution to meet the O&M
expenditure on a day-to-day basis. This will be
assessed periodically with the intention of
retaining 100% of revenue at the institution by
_nmid-term review.
-65-



5. Policy and Strategy    Inadequate strategy development in the  Capability of line managers within the Directorate
Development               health sector has resulted in sub-optimal   to formulate and review policies will be enhanced.
use of resources. For example, decisions do A Strategic Management Board (SMB) assisted
not take into full consideration the size and by a Strategic Support Group (SSG) will be set up
scope of services provided by         for providing support to the Principal Secretary
private-commercial and voluntary sectors,  Health and senior managers. Strategic Support
available health manpower, the predicted   Group (SSG) would undertake research and pilot
future epidemiological profile in Uttar  testing, monitor effects of existing policies, and
Pradesh, how to best address needs of the   provide information to SMB. Examples include
poor, locating new major capital      examining the role of the private sector; review
investments, or exploring new options for  regulations for licensing, certification,
health financing and organisation.    accreditation; revise the essential drugs policy;
assess the evolving epidemiological profile in
Uttar Pradesh; monitor the burden of disease and
recommend cost-effective means for achieving the
best use of limited resources; and undertake
periodic review of the health manpower supply
situation and training needs in the state. A study
on the scope and prospects of enlisting the private
sector support for promotion of health care at
primary and secondary levels is being carried out.
6. Public Accountability  Communities have little say in the oversight Government has taken steps to increase
of health facilities, and have low    accountability to the public through issuing a
expectations of public health services.  Citizens' Charter, publicising the services
available and costs publicly. District and Tehasit
committees are being used to address public
complaints. Information on patient satisfaction
and performance of health institutions will be
made public and available to local communities.
Managers will be held accountable for results.
IEC will stress community rights and
responsibilities. Results of patients' satisfaction
and monitoring will be publicised.
7. Facilities Planning    The State has been rapidly expanding the   Government will focus on making the current
number of sub-centres, PHCs, CHCs, and   health facilities fully functional, by a three-year
sub-district hospitals whereas the existing  moratorium on construction of new PHCs, and
institutions are under-resourced and often   CHCs. The norms for district hospitals
under-utilised.                       established under the project would be complied
with for all hospitals. The project would help to
establish a new system of capital appraisal for
justifying new capital proposals.
8. Health services access to  The poor, women, and remote populations  Monitor health status and the use of health
women and disadvantaged   have worse health conditions and fewer    services by the poor, women, and remote
populations               services.                              populations and publicise the results. Targets for
services are set to increase utilisation by special
ration cardholders and women. Provide
incremental resources in the form of a health fund
to enable poor and remote regions to develop
innovative approaches for improving access.
9. Quality of health services  Quality of medical services is inadequate,  Quality assurance strategies will be developed at
and there are few institutionalised processes state, district and facility levels, building on
to ensure that care is of the highest quality. current efforts to develop clinical and referral
norms, improving training and provision of
necessary inputs, and monitoring processes
introduced under the Holistic Health Approach.
- 66 -



10. Work force            Improvement of services is significantly    Government is reducing the skills mismatch
restricted by shortages of key personnel, a  through new postings of paramedical staff.
mismatch between available staff and  Staffing norms have been revised. Flexible
needs, instability of staffing and inadequate staffing approaches will be adopted in the short
support for improving skills.         term, which will necessitate retraining and
redundancies, while critical shortages of nurses
will be addressed. Doctors will serve at PHCs
and CHCs on a mobile basis where shortages
exist. In-service training, especially on-the-job
training will be emphasised. Appropriate
incentives will be introduced to encourage staff to
work in remote areas, in addition to contracting
for services. Doctors, CMOs, and CMSs will be
asked to serve a minimum of three years in a
posting. An annual audit on transfers,
absenteeism, and disciplinary procedures would
be implemented.
11. The role of the private   The health services development strategy of A public-private forum on health care has been
sector and voluntary     the Government has not taken sufficient    established, to develop an agenda for common
organisations             account of the scope and coverage of  action. Legislation will be introduced to regulate
non-Governmental providers and the role of all medical institutions, in co-operation with the
this sector in delivering quality health care. private sector. The role of the private sector would
be continuously monitored, the quality of services
provided by private and public practitioners would
be assessed and regulations relating to
improvements in service quality would be
evaluated. Private sector partnership shall be
encouraged in training & manpower deployment.
Referrals between private primary care and the
secondary level in the private sector diagnosis,
treatment and care would be explored through
District Health Committees.
12. Contracting services  Opportunities for more efficient provision   Contracting for support services, especially
of services have been missed.         laundry, cleaning services, and drivers will be
pursued. Space in public hospitals will also be
leased for private diagnostic services. The
Department will monitor quality and effectiveness
of contracted services, and review new proposals.
13. Co-ordination of various  Currently a number of programmes are  The Strategic Management Board will co-ordinate
projects for improving health being implemented by various groups in the the planning and implementation of the different
State under financial assistance from the    project components. A beginning has been made
Centre, the World Bank, and USAID as    by bringing RCH, SIFPSA, & UPHSDP - I team to
national programmes. There is a need for   discuss strategy programme to avoid overlap.
co-ordinating the activities of the different  Regional organisations would be considered for
groups to avoid duplication of efforts and   co-ordinated implementation of various schemes.
wastage of limited resources.
-67 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
India State Health Systems Development Projects: Summary of Lessons Learned
and Their Implications
Issue                           Lessons Learned                          Future Actions
Polcy                           * Changing allocations has been more difficult  *Prepare options papers on how to
* Increased allocation to health,  than anticipated: overall allocation to health   improve State health allocations
especially to primary and       has increased slightly in Punjab and West  within context of overall State
secondary levels and non-wage  Bengal, but more so in Karnataka, pressure for priorities and fiscal constraints
recurrent items                 the wage bill has increased, but there have    * Integrate Strategic Planning Cell into
* Systems for policy analysis and  been small increases to selected non-wage  state health policy and planning
strategic planning             items                                     bodies
* Role of governunent in utilizing    * Investment in physical improvements is  * Shift from rigid norms to need and
public-private partnerships     powerful motivator in promoting systemic  performance based planning
reforms                                 *Explore options to improve use of
*Attitude and behavior change of policy-makers private financing and private
and key staff within state health systems is  provision, including new provider
vital step toward reconsidering role of  payment mechanisms and
government and private sector            organizational models
* Strengthen monitoring of effects of
cost-recovery and exemptions
Management & Institutional      a Quality and continuity of project management * State government commitment can be
Arrangements                     is key to successful implementation      seen by its support to the project
* Continuity of project management a Multidisciplinary project team essential,  through quality management and
* Appropriate project management   Up-front training in Bank procedures is  retention of key managers.
arrangements                    needed.                                 *Add skills on key software areas (e.g.,
* Adequate flow of funds        * Establishment of autonomous bodies are not    economics, information systems,
* Strengthening state health     sufficient in easing flow of funds - financial    marketing) to project teams
management systems              commitment of state is still critical   * Integrate PMC activities and systems
*Management information systems  *District Health Commrittees can be effective    (e.g., information systems, financial
to support decision-making      provided they are engaged early and have  management) into mainstream of
*Management of physical assets to   substantial decision-making power, including   health systems
ensure quality, performance and    financial authority and control over postings   *Integrate planning and supervision of
safety                        * Managing contracts is an efficient mechanism   SHSII project with other national
where tested so far (non-clinical hospital  programs
services, waste management; minor building  *Extend contracting to clinical services
maintenance including toilets, waste supply   *Increased use of 3rd party evaluation
etc)                                     of outputs and outcomes and applied
* "Centers of excellence" created by project  research
need to be expanded beyond the project  oDevelop local standards for quality
* Concurrent evaluation and feedback in areas    assurance
of patient satisfaction and hospital    *Expand standardized guidelines and
performance enables managers to take prompt  operational procedures (e.g., model
corrective action                        contracts, hospital commissioning
* Quality assurance requires appropriate local    guidelines)
standards to be meaningful              *Undertake study of cost-effectiveness
* Economic benefits of asset care demonstrated   of various maintenance and repair
by success of one-time repair programs   modalities currently being tried in
*Technical inspection and testing of products    different states and develop criteria
essential to ensure quality and safety   for optimizing arrangements
oDevelop data base on equipment for
secondary care including, technical
specifications, unit costs, maintenance
I guidelines, life-cycle costs for O&M.
-68 -



Health Service Delivery         *Referral protocols need to be responsive to    *Expand referral systems throughout
*Functional referral system      changes in services in public and private  state
*Disease surveillance            sectors; provision of all project inputs is not a *Refine surveillance system design
*Hospital waste                  prerequisite to initiate action          around control actions, integrate with
* Health communications         *Though surveillance systems are established,   epidemics divisions of DOH, and
*Training                        rapid response still needs to be strengthened    address non-communicable diseases;
* Engaging NGOs                 *Actions on improving hospital cleanliness and  do comprehensive situation analysis of
waste management requires continuing     surveillance system in selected states
attention but can yield positive results  *Implement long-term waste
* IEC strategy so far limited only to client and    management strategies and continue
provider information, its effects on behavior   training & promotion
change is not yet known                 *Refocus IEC on behavior change and
* The effectiveness of training needs more  monitoring of change; integrate IEC
rigorous monitoring; training on specific skills  strategies in state across national and
used by trainees has been most successful  state programs; hold workshop on how
*The limited partnerships with NGOs has been  to contract and monitor IEC agencies
positive, but dependant on good screening of  *Critically evaluate training by linking
NGO and medium-term commitment           training to clinical and managerial
outcomes; develop on site
management development and
training programs
* Increase involvement with NGOs
-69 -



I



IBRD 30838
I
32               78                                   80                                   82                                    84           32-
HIMACHAL                                                                                                 ID
PRADESH                     *8 ,^                                                           UTrAR PRADESH
UTrAR KASHI                           At
-, 0 -"   .'' a  'tta7'   t)0  STATE CAPITAL
.RUDRA-\ 'C
tRAYAG              F                                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
/ CHAMOLI '
DEHRADUEHz'WTEHRI GARHWAL                               C'. -  STATE BOUNDARIES
ffi -r,      .      1~                                                                - -. a PITHORAGA  -'-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
.SAHAANPUR r                  PAURI        BHAGESHWAR\              .3
t           HARIDWAR'                    AUMORA - $             . t
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- 'A.M  R <w              " ,
MUZAFFARNAGAR    i
-  BIJNAUR   1'         NAINITAL
)J~~~t~~ato~~~~~                       \ >~~~HAMPAWAT
BAGHPAT{ M E E R U T 
C           XJ~~~~YOTIBA PHUJLE  V a
t   K. <  X     , NAGAR                        H i RAMP    GHNAGAS
LLu GHAZIABAD              tMORADA4D
Lu GHD   .v< a   'MORADAI%   fX                   R PLIBHIT A t+    ./\ 
JBAREILLY   tL        3       It *.
't~GAUTNAa                        "   
S BUDH NAG4R  BULAND- ,                               f                    t_f
O (C  3    )   UBADAUN                                             LAKHIMPUR
<a.  MACASH                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KHERI                                                            2'
g  . . ,, .,,TALIGARH  /O <-           y,
MATHURWHATHRAS                    d           'C   0-
HATHPASITAPU                                                                        BALRA/OTPUR
~~        a> 0%  ~~~ ~ARRUKHAB9                                                                   '~'r 
<t:    ." ' 5o ' FIR-ZAB D 'HARDOI                                                                           IDDASTHRAGANP       
S  FIR5ZABAD  H ~    Y   ~  -t~  J               '  AAHRARAJGAN?  .
t. sFAEHPR>  RTAWGARH        LUC        -       ARABGANKI  0,X;          BASTA  1 
PA.-S          _t                   J H ANS  AIPURNa<  C                                 JANPAZIPARAD"      7'             I
2  60                      MADHYA R                                   ABE           LANU
AGRA                                          RADES                                              OBHDA2
*. _: )
PRADES mr. wa                                                                                                              MAIlac by         26 a  tinUnea hWl on.o 2   0 75 l0  ie 
ETAWAH                                        BAR oa  PRATAO      f' do  AiA
HAIMIR                     FATHPU                                    5MLa      RAkoKHPUR-'  f'".
J                      %~~~~jAS  KAPUSR           o#                                      ANP"               AIU
780                           8~~~0                                    82                                       84V  <
DEHAT                                                    EDAR
/                                          *.~~~~~~~'APUR U'9.p
LA LIT PUAN S_,-    RI ARL
26'    ADHY                                               MADHYA-
PRADES                                                                                         IAPR DESPSOSHARA.
C  AIPI                                                                    GHAZIPU
iHANSI                I                I 
Tha mp vasprdued yte op esog Unto Te Wrl Bnk.0  5     0B7ANDMAe
MADHYA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARH20



