Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3338 IN
Agreement Amending
Project Agreement
(Health Systems Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UTTAR PRADESH
Dated November 8, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3338 IN
AGREEMENT AMENDING PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT date November 8, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and the STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Uttar Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement dated May 19, 2000, as amended 
to date (the Development Credit Agreement) between the Borrower and the Association, 
the Association agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eighty-two million, one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 82,100,000) (the Credit) to assist in financing the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(B)
by the Project Agreement dated May 19, 2000 (the Project Agreement), 
between the Association and the State of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh), Uttar Pradesh   
agreed to undertake certain obligations with respect to the carrying out of the 
Project;
(C)
the Borrower has advised the Association through Gazette Notice No. 37 
dated August 25, 2000 of the passing of the Uttar Pradesh Reorganization Act creating 
the new State of Uttaranchal (Uttaranchal), formerly a part of Uttar Pradesh; and
(D)
the Borrower has requested the Association to amend the Project Agreement 
to take into account the creation of Uttaranchal, and its obligation to carry out part 
of the Project.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree to amend the Project Agreement as 
follows:
PREAMBLE
Page  2
The Preamble is amended to read as follows:
"(B) 
by the agreement of even date herewith between India (the 
Borrower) and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to eighty-two million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR82,100,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar Pradesh and 
Uttaranchal agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set 
forth in this Agreement and in the Uttaranchal Project Agreement; and"
ARTICLE IV
(i)
A new Section 4.04 is added to read as follows:
"The Agreement Amending the Project Agreement shall come into force and 
effect on the date upon which the Agreement Amending the Development Credit 
Agreement becomes effective."
SCHEDULE 1
(i)
Part C of Section I  is deleted and replaced with the following:
"Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per 
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $27,170,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Procurement of Small Goods (Except Vehicles)
(a)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,150,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $440,000 
equivalent, may be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
Vehicles
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,400,000 equivalent, may:
(i)
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $870,000 equivalent;
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
Page  3
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(iii)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account if they meet the 
requirements of the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $160,000 equivalent.
5.
Contracts for Maintenance of Buildings, Equipment and Vehicles
Contracts for maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles referred 
to in paragraph 2 (c) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,030,000 equivalent, may:
(a)
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $840,000 equivalent;
(b)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; or
(c) 
as a last resort, be carried out by force account if they meet the 
requirements of the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent.
6.
Contracts for Hiring of Vehicles
Contracts for hiring of vehicles referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Part 
A of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement estimated to cost less 
than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,930,000 equivalent, may be procured under fixed-price contract awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from three vehicle hire-purchase firms."
(ii)
Part C.1 of Section II is amended to read as follows:
"1.
Single Source Selection 
Services provided by consultants which meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines and are estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,500,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of 
the Consultant Guidelines."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending the Project Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 
Page  4
By /s/ Sujit Banerjee
Authorized Representative
