Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3338 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated May 19, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3338 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, acting by 
its Governor (Uttar Pradesh).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 10, 
2000, from Uttar Pradesh, describing a program of objectives, policies 
and actions to improve the health system (the Uttar Pradesh Health Sector 
Development Program) and declaring its commitment to carry out such 
Program;
(B) 
by the agreement of even date herewith between India (the 
Borrower) and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million one hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR82,100,000) on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Page  2
Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association 
as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has 
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and health practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Uttar 
Pradesh shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, Uttar Pradesh shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and Uttar Pradesh, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Uttar Pradesh on said plan.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound financial management and accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project of the 
departments or agencies of Uttar Pradesh responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each 
Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such Fiscal Year, (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
such Fiscal Year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such financial 
statements, records and 
accounts and a report of such audit, by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records, 
accounts and financial 
statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, Uttar Pradesh shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial 
management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in 
order to enable Uttar Pradesh, not later than December 31, 2001, or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) 
sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month 
period 
following the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately 
expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) 
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; 
and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
Page  4
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, Uttar Pradesh shall prepare, in accordance 
with the guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier 
of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh of this 
event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall 
also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Uttar Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow
Uttar Pradesh, India
Page  5
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed by its Principal 
Secretary, Health or such other person or persons as Uttar Pradesh shall 
designate in writing, and Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By /s/ V. K. Deewan
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section I. 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, (i) contracts for goods (except 
vehicles) shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 
equivalent or more each and (ii) contracts for vehicles shall be grouped 
Page  6
in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Civil Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per 
contract shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$31,130,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Procurement of Small Goods (Except Vehicles)
(a)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$10,480,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods (except vehicles) estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3.
Vehicles
Vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may:
(i) 
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with 
the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,100,000 equivalent;
(ii)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description 
of the works, including basic specifications, 
the required completion date, a 
basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully; or
(iii)
as a last resort, be carried out by force account if 
they meet the 
requirements of  the provisions 
of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, up to an 
Page  7
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent.
5.
Contracts for Maintenance of Buildings, Equipment and Vehicles
Contracts for maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles 
referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,660,000 equivalent, 
may:
(a)
be procured by direct contracting in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent;
(b)
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. 
The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully; or
(c) 
as a last resort, be carried out by force account if they 
meet the requirements of the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the 
Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent.
6.
Contracts for Hiring of Vehicles
Contracts for hiring of vehicles referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of 
Part A of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $4,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under fixed-price 
contract awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three vehicle 
hire-purchase firms. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement 
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more; (b) each contract for goods estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (c) the first two contracts for 
works awarded under paragraph 1(a) of Part C of this Section I; and (d) 
the first two contracts for goods awarded under paragraph 1(b) of Part C 
of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  8
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
this Section II. 
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services estimated 
to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection 
Services provided by consultants which meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 3.9 of the Consultant Guidelines and are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Least Cost Selection
Services of Consultants for assignments of a standard or routine 
nature estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Service Delivery Contractors
Consultant services estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
per contract may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.19 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  9
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Project Implementation Plan
1.
Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan.
Project Management Unit
2.
Uttar Pradesh, by October 31, 2000, shall appoint and thereafter 
maintain, personnel, including financial management staff, in the Project 
Management Unit with skills, qualifications and experience as set forth 
in the Project Implementation Plan.
Strategic Management Board
3.
Uttar Pradesh shall maintain the Strategic Management Board with 
composition, powers, functions and resources as set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan.
Allocation of Resources within the Health Sector
4.
Uttar Pradesh shall: (i)  monitor its financing plan to increase 
expenditures to the health sector (DOMHFW); and (ii) ensure that within 
the resources (plan and non-plan) allocated to the health sector in each 
Fiscal Year during the period of Project implementation, the share of 
resources allocated to non-wage recurrent items will be increased in each 
such Fiscal Year from the immediately preceding Fiscal Year.
Health Facilities
5.
Uttar Pradesh shall place a three-year moratorium on the 
construction of new PHCs and CHCs until December 31, 2003. 
User Fees
6.
Uttar Pradesh shall implement a program to: (i) ensure that 100% of 
Page  10
user fees collected will be retained at the health facility level for use 
on non-wage items by May 31, 2003; and (ii) ensure exemptions for the 
poor from user fees satisfactory to the Association.
Annual Assessment of DOMHFW
7.
By December 31 of each year, commencing in December 31, 2001, Uttar 
Pradesh shall undertake an annual assessment by an independent reviewer 
of transfers, absenteeism and disciplinary actions of personnel in DOMHFW 
and promptly furnish to the Association a copy of such annual assessment.
Project Funds
8.
Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that Project funds will be released to 
the departments and agencies of Uttar Pradesh in a timely manner and in 
accordance with the procedures described in the PFMS Manual.
Procurement and Financial Reviews
9.
By December 31, of each year, commencing December 31, 2001, Uttar 
Pradesh shall undertake an annual review of procurement and internal 
financial controls by an independent agency and promptly furnish to the 
Association a copy of such review.
Annual Review and Work Plan; Budgetary Allocations
10.
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(a)
by April 30 of each year during the period of Project 
implementation, beginning with April 30, 2001:
(i)
provide to the Association an annual work plan, 
acceptable to the Association, 
setting forth the 
activities under the Project to be carried out during the 
prevailing Fiscal Year including the budgetary allocations 
to be made 
available for such purpose, as well as 
the performance benchmarks and 
development 
objectives to be achieved and drawn from the overall framework 
agreed to be achieved under the Project including, 
inter alia, hospital 
activity indicators, 
hospital efficiency indicators, and quality, access and 
effectiveness indicators to be measured in accordance with 
methodology 
satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii)
review with the Association the progress achieved in 
implementing the Project 
under the annual work plan for 
the previous Fiscal Year and the interim plan 
referred to in sub-paragraph (c) of this paragraph with special reference 
to 
the achievement of the performance benchmarks and 
development objectives 
incorporated therein;
(b)
implement each annual work plan in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(c)
implement the Project until the formulation of the first 
annual work plan in accordance with an interim plan agreed with the 
Association.
11.
Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that sufficient budgetary allocations 
for the annual work plans referred to in paragraph 10 above are made 
available on a timely basis to meet the resource requirements under such 
plans.
Hospital Waste Management Assessment and Plan
12.
Uttar Pradesh shall implement the Hospital Waste Management 
Assessment and plan in accordance with the objectives, policies, 
Page  11
procedures, time schedules and other provisions set out therein.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
13.
Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that no civil works which may result in 
the involuntary resettlement of people will be undertaken under the 
Project.
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-term Review
14.
(a) 
By no later than May 31, 2003, Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i) 
formulate and thereafter implement, a comprehensive 
essential drug policy 
satisfactory to the 
Association;
(ii)
provide to the Association a report on the condition 
of the facilities 
strengthened and rehabilitated 
under the Project to date demonstrating that 
such 
facilities are fully functional and operating in accordance with the new 
norms and making timely progress on the indicators of 
facility performance;
(iii)
provide to the Association a report of the 
assessments of the initial pilot 
studies, including those 
for: (A) Regional directorates; (B) District 
financial delegation; (C) contracting services to the private 
sector; (D) a 
trauma center; (E) innovative schemes to 
underserved areas; (F) disease 
surveillance; (G) 
referral mechanisms; and (H) HMIS; and
(iv)
develop a new system of capital appraisal, to be used 
for the purposes of 
justifying new proposals 
for capital investments in the health sector.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish 
to the Association, by May 31, 
2003, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a) 
of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project 
during the period 
preceeding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2003, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Page  12
