Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3338 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Health Systems Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 19, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3338 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 19, 2000, between INDIA, acting by its 
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated March 10, 
2000 from the State of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar Pradesh), describing a 
program of objectives, policies and actions to improve the health system 
(the Uttar Pradesh Health Sector Development Program) and declaring its 
commitment to carry out such Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; 
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Uttar Pradesh with the 
Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make the proceeds of the  Credit provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Credit) available to Uttar Pradesh, as set forth in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the agreement of even date 
herewith between the Association and Uttar Pradesh (the Project 
Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association shall have the right 
to allocate and 
apply the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole 
discretion determine.”
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CHC” means a community health center;
(b)
“CMO” means a Chief Medical Officer of a district in Uttar 
Pradesh (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“DOMHFW” means the Department of Medical, Health and Family 
Welfare of Uttar Pradesh;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) 
set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower 
and Uttar Pradesh, which begins on April 1 of a calendar year and ends on 
March 31 of the following calendar year;
(g)
“HMIS” means Health Management Information System;
(h)
“Hospital Waste Management Assessment and Plan” means the 
action plan of Uttar Pradesh, dated January 21, 2000 and approved by the 
Association, for the management of medical waste, including actions to be 
taken within hospital premises and actions to be taken regarding ultimate 
disposal outside hospital premises, set forth in Chapter seven  of the 
Project Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization operating under 
the relevant laws of the Borrower or Uttar Pradesh;
Page  3
(j)
“PFMS” means the Project Financial Management System 
established for the Project;
(k)
“PFMS Manual” means the Manual developed for the operation 
of the PFMS and included in the Project Implementation Plan (as 
hereinafter defined);
(l)
“PHC” means a primary health center;
(m)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Project Governing Board” means the Project Governing Board 
established for the Project, which will be responsible for, inter alia, 
making major policy decisions and developing the broad policy outline for 
the Project, approving the annual budget, and Project revisions as 
necessary, ratifying decisions of the Project Steering Committee (as 
hereinafter defined), undertaking an annual review of Project 
implementation and monitoring overall Project progress;
(o)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the Project 
Implementation Plan of Uttar Pradesh for the carrying out of the Project, 
dated February, 2000 and approved by the Association, as the same may be 
revised from time to time with the agreement of the Association;
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(q)
“Project Management Unit” means the Project Management Unit 
established for the Project within DOMHFW and responsible for, inter 
alia, performing routine Project management, monitoring progress, 
maintaining the flow of funds and project accounts, providing technical 
guidance and general administration, and preparing progress reports;
(r)
“Project Steering Committee” means the Project Steering 
Committee established for the Project and reporting to the Project 
Governing Board, which will be responsible for, inter alia, overseeing 
and monitoring Project implementation and facilitating Project 
management;
(s)
“Scheduled Tribes” means the population groups specified as 
“Scheduled Tribes” pursuant to Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(u)
“Strategic Management Board” means the Strategic Management 
Board established within DOMHFW and responsible for, inter alia, 
formulating and reviewing health sector policy proposals and strategies 
for Uttar Pradesh;
(v)
“Strategic Support Group” means the Strategic Support Group 
established within DOMHFW and responsible for, inter alia, conducting and 
commissioning specific policy analysis and research as directed by the 
Strategic Management Board and providing other technical and research 
support to the Strategic Management Board; and
(w)
“Uttar Pradesh” means the State of Uttar Pradesh, a State of 
the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the 
Project implementation entity shall be deemed to be a reference to Uttar 
Pradesh.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-two million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR82,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1, 2010 
and ending November 1, 2034. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on November 1, 2019 shall be one and one-fourth 
percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment 
Page  5
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of Uttar Pradesh therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable Uttar Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take 
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with 
such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available 
to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements 
for developmental assistance to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by Uttar Pradesh pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall participate together with Uttar Pradesh 
and the Association in the carrying out of the mid-term review of the 
Project referred to in paragraph 14 of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  6
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with sound financial 
management and accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures are retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received the audit report for the 
Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a)(i) of this Section 
and those for the Special 
Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such Fiscal Year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted during such Fiscal Year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Uttar Pradesh will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
An event shall have occurred which shall make it improbable 
that the Uttar Pradesh Health Sector Development Program or a significant 
part of such Program will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General 
Page  7
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that the 
event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, 
namely that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Uttar Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance 
with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, 
Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of 
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, 110001
India
Cable address:
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first 
above written.
Page  8
INDIA
By /s/ R. S. Sharma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
   14,930,000
85%
(2)
Goods
   31,350,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures 
(ex-factory
cost) and 80% of 
local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services,
    20,150,000
100%
professional services,
NGO services,
studies, training
and workshops
(4)
Incremental operating
     7,460,000
80% of expenditures
and maintenance costs
incurred through
December 31, 2002;
50% of expenditures
incurred from 
January 1,
2003 through 
December 31,
2004; and 25% of 
expen-
ditures incurred 
thereafter
(5)
Unallocated
     8,210,000
Page  9
TOTAL
    82,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating and maintenance costs” means 
the following additional costs incurred in carrying out the Project: (i) 
salaries of additional staff; (ii) hiring of vehicles; (iii) operation 
and maintenance of vehicles; and (iv) maintenance of equipment, buildings 
and offices.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR500,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after April 1, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(a) works under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each; (b) 
goods (except vehicles) under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; (c) vehicles under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (d) consultants’ services under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each in the case of firms and $50,000 equivalent 
each in the case of individuals; (e) studies, training and workshops; and 
(f) incremental operating and maintenance costs; all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit 
account in the Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account 
of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first 
Project Management Report referred to in Section 3.02(b) of the Project 
Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management 
Report pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied 
by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Page  10
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower or Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to 
furnish to the Association within the period of time specified in Section 
4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement and Section 3.01(b)(ii) of the Project 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said Sections in respect of the audit of (A) the 
records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records, accounts 
and financial statements reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association 
shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an 
Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to 
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph 
(a), (b) or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are not 
made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
Page  11
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR10,500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the 
time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into 
the Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account when Withdrawals are 
made on the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the 
Borrower, all withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by 
the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Page  12
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal 
to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to 
finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to 
be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of 
$14,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to establish a well managed health 
system in Uttar Pradesh which delivers more effective services through 
policy reform, institutional and human resource development, and 
investment in health services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:
Policy Reforms, Management Development and Institutional 
Strengthening
1.
Developing a strategic management capacity and enhancing the 
competence for formulating and reviewing health sector policy proposals 
and strategies within DOMHFW by: (i) establishing and operationalizing 
the Strategic Management Board and the Strategic Support Group to review 
the overall performance of the health system, commission and conduct 
special studies, prepare policy papers, and establish the strategic 
direction for the health sector; and (ii) establishing an effective forum 
for developing public-private partnerships in the health sector.
2.
Strengthening the performance, accountability and efficiency in 
health sector management by: (i) developing HMIS that provides accurate, 
relevant and timely reports to managers at the directorate, regional and 
district levels, with specific emphasis on the monitoring of district 
service improvement plans; (ii) implementing results oriented managerial 
systems which identify specific actions needed to improve individual 
performance; (iii) implementing tailored management training for managers 
from the directorate to facility levels to enable critical Project 
interventions to be implemented effectively and ultimately to change 
management practices and attitudes; (iv) demonstrating in pilot districts 
how enhanced discretion over expenditure can result in improvements in 
health services; (v) developing and implementing a human resource plan to 
fill critical vacancies, especially in rural facilities and to correct 
staffing imbalances; and (vi) leasing of diagnostic services and 
contracting of non-clinical services, where appropriate, to improve 
service levels and efficiency.
3.
Building implementation capacity within the Project Management Unit 
by: (i) recruiting staff from both public and private sectors; and (ii) 
delegating to regional offices the responsibilities for Project 
implementation and monitoring at the district level and coordination of 
service improvement plans with CMOs.
Part B:
Improving Health Service Quality and Access
1.
Improving the quality of clinical practices by: (i) enhancing the 
clinical and technical skills of health providers; (ii) renovating 
facilities, equipping them, and providing medicines and supplies to 
better utilize health facilities; (iii) developing and applying 
streamlined norms and standards for clinical and support services and 
staffing norms which conform to services provided at different types of 
Page  13
facilities; (iv) developing and implementing a plan for a coherent system 
of referral and service delivery between block-level PHCs, CHCs and 
district hospitals; (v) developing systems for equipment maintenance and 
repair management; (vi) developing quality assurance programs at health 
facilities and at the state level; (vii) expanding and integrating 
reproductive and child health initiatives and centrally sponsored disease 
control and nutrition programs; and (viii) encouraging good quality 
health and family welfare services through the private sector, including 
NGOs.
2.
Improving the quality of public health services, particularly the 
programs and services addressing the prevention of disease and health 
needs of the population as a whole, by: (i) establishing an effective 
disease surveillance and control system; (ii) improving the drug quality 
control systems including through creation of an independent drug control 
administration, if considered necessary or desirable; (iii) developing 
and implementing a phased strategy for medical waste management at public 
health facilities; and (iv) developing and implementing a coordinated 
strategy for health communications to provide support to the public 
health interventions, improve the awareness of and demand for public 
health and clinical services and promote healthy behavior change in 
priority areas.
3.
Improving access to health services and facilitating health-seeking 
behavior in the remote areas by supporting district health teams and NGOs 
to undertake innovative activities that may include: (i) developing 
networks of public and private facilities; (ii) expanding outreach 
services; (iii) identifying and reaching vulnerable groups not using 
health services; and (iv) developing pre-payment or insurance schemes.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005.
