Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCuL USE ONLY
Rqprt NPI  P-4088-E
REPORT AND RECOMaENDATION
OF
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300.0 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A RAILWAY SECTOR PROJECT
May 20, 1985
Thi acemmeu ha a gesbie irbb&m mmd may be aed bY reciPlens 0Yiuyfn Mhe PerOmne Of
I   her.Uil uih.lb ciemt .m ma ehew1w be diadmed withot W.rd Imk smthodz



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
On March 31, 1985, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1   Mex$208.79; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$226.85.
Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Mex$0.21 per day against
the US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)           =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)       -    2.20 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (MT)     =    2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)           =    0.26 gallons (gal)
Abbreviations
BANOBRAS           Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.
(National Bank for Public Works and Services)
CIF                Cost, Insurance, Freight
CN                 Constructora Nacional de Carros de Ferrocarril, S.A.
(National Railway Cars Construction)
DGVF               Direccion General de Vias Ferreas
(Directorate General for Railway Lines)
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
FUS                Ferrocarriles Unidos del Sureste
(United Southeastern Railways)
GIRA               General Interest Rate Agreement
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
NAFINSA            Nacional Financiera, S.A.
N de M             Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
(Mexican National Railways)
SCT                Secretaria de Comuaicaciones y Transportes
(Secretariat of Communications and Transport)
SRCP               Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
RAILWAY SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. CBANOBRAS)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Project
Executing      Secretaria de Comumicaciones y Transportes (SCT)
Agencies:      Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (N de M)
Auount:        US$300.0 million equivalent
Terms:         15 years, including three years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project        The proposed project would provide for investment, operational,
Description:   and financial improvements to the Mexican railways system during
the period 1985-1988. Investment items supported by the loan
would cover both the SCT and N de M investment programs for the
period, and include: (i) acquisition of rails, track machinery,
workshop equipment, locomotive spare parts, and freight wagon
and passenger coach components; (ii) major construction and
realignment of rail lines; (iii) consultant services; and
(iv) training equipment and scholarships. The project would
help accomplish the following objectives: (i) improve railway
capacity; (ii) continue improvements in railway operating effi-
ciency; (iii) promote financial self-sufficiency; (iv) strength-
en commercial practices; and (v) upgrade rail infrastructure
planning methods.
BANOBRAS would relend the proceeds of the loan to N de M and the
Terms:         Government (in the case of SCT) in US dollars on the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan. N de M and the Government
would assume the foreign exchange risk for their respective
shares of the proposed loan.
Project        The railways are the principal transport mode for the movement
Beneficiary:   of important bulk items which are crucial to the Mexican econo-
my, such as grain, fertilizer, coal, iron ore and cement. The
incidence of transport costs in the final costs of these prod-
ucts is significant, and, thus, an efficient rail operation
should benefit the economy as a whole and help support the eco-
nomic recovery. Lastly, the economy as a whole should benefit
from the reduced railway burden on the public sector deficit, if
operational and financial targets are met.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizationL



- il -
Prolect        The project faces three risks:  (i) rail traffic projections are
Risks:         subject to substantial uncertainty, as experienced in railway
projects all over the world-appropriate measures calling for an
annual updating of traffic forecasts and investment requirements
have been incorporated, and financial projections have been
based on more conservative estimates of traffic to ensure an
improved financial performance for N de M despite a possible
traffic shortfall; (ii) Government counterpart funds may be fur-
ther restricted during project implementation, but the proposed
sector loan format-allowing for flexibility in investment prio-
rities-and the agreed minimum outlays for maintenance-related
activities would minimize the impact of budget cuts; and (iii)
it may become more difficult for the Government to continue act-
ing on its policy of reducing subsidies and raising prices to
reflect the cost of services in the face of potential political
resistance. The Government up to now has shown a serious comr
mitment to its stated pricing poli-ies, particularly in the
transport sector.
Estimated Cost:      The total cost of the SCT and N de M rail investment
program for 1985-1988 is estimated at US$2.35 billion
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$849
million equivalent. The Bank loan represents 13% of the
total program and 35% of the foreign exchange
requirements.
Railway Investment
Program, 1985-1988:                              cUS$ Millions Equivalent)
Local    Foreign     Total
By N de H:
Civil Works                                 197.1        -        197.1
Rails                                         -         71.5       71.5
Equipment/Machinery                          77.5      155.8      233.3
Locomotives/Wagons                          372.9      173.2      546.1
Passenger Coaches                            94.4       14.0      108.4
Administration/Technical Support             37.1        2.0       39.1
Subtotal                             779.0     416.5    1,195.5
By scr:
Civil Works                                 490.8      260.7      751.5
Rails                                         -         79.9       79.9
Equipment                                     -          9.8        9.8
Administration/Technical Support             73.8        1.4       75.2
Subtotal                             564.6     351.8       916.4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                      1,343.6      768.3    2,111.9
Price Contingencies                       161.6       80.9      242.5
TOTAL COSTS                               1,505.2      849.2    2,354.4



- iii -
Financing Sources
IBRD (1929-NE)                                -         44.5       44.5
IBRD (Sector Project)                         -        300.0      300.0
Supplier C-rdits and Commercial Banks         -        273.9      273.9
Government                                1,505.2      230.8    1,736.0
TOTAL FINANCING                           1,505.2      849.2    2,354.4
Estimated                                  (Bank FYIUS$ Millions)
Disbursements:
86      87      88       89      90      91     92
Annual        20.0    49.0    81.0    66.0    42.0    24.0   18.0
Cumulative    20.0    69.0   150.0   216.0   258.0   282.0  300.0
Rate of      Items to be financed under the proposed loan would be appraised
Return:      according to agreed technical and economic criteria, and would
have a minimum estimated rate of return of 12%. A detailed
evaluation of the major investment commitments in 1985 found that
the SCT works have estimated rates of return ranging from 16% to
56%, and the N de M works and goods have estimated rates of return
of from 18% to 74%.
Staff
Appraisal
Report.      No. 5464b-ME, May 14, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANE FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOHIKKNATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TUE IBRD
TO TUE MEECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
VITM THE GUARSNTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STAES
FOR A RAIWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan to
the Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS) with the
Guarantee of United Mexican States, for the equivalent of US$300.0 million, to
help finance a Railway Sector Loan. The loan would be repaid over 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The
proceeds of the loan would be relent to N de M and the Government (in the case
of SCT) in US dollars on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan.
N de M and the Government would bear the foreign exchange risk over their
respective shares of the loan.
PART I - TRE ECONOMY I/
2.     An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments and
Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 14,
1984. The report's main conclusions and recent economic developments are
summarized below.
3.     Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some two decades of high and stable growth after the early 1950s. By the late
1960s, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the -easy- and efficient possibil-
ities for import substitution, and faced a choice between outward-oriented
growth or continued inward-directed growth led by expansion of public sector
expenditures and rising subsidies and protection of inefficient domestic
production. By 1972, the choice was made to pursue the latter course. Public
sector expenditures as a percent of GDP more than doubled between 1970 and
1982, from 18.8% to 42.5% (Report No. 4996-ME, p. 114). By 1976, Mexico expe-
rienced a serious financial and economic crisis, followed by an even more
serious one six years later. The discovery of large oil reserves in the mid-
1970s led Mexico to a quick economic recovery, but it also removed the urgency
of policy reforms. Primary among these was the need to reduce protection and
the anti-export bias of the trade regime to thereby move over time toward
greater efficiency and international competitiveness. Oil revenues also tempo-
rarily helped finance the public sector deficit and reduced the need for
greater fiscal restraint.
1/   Parts I and II of this Report are substantially unchanged from the
corresponding sections in the President's Report for the Second Small- and
Medium-Scale Mining Development Loan (Report No. P-4048-ME of April 30,
1985).



- 2-
Developuents during 1977-1982
4.     The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez Portillo
Administration (January 1977-December 1982) to overcome the serious financial
crisis of 1976 and to start working on structural, social, and economic prob-
lems, including poverty, income and wealth inequality, unemployment, regional
imbalances, and relatively slow agricultural growth. In the early years of
that Administration (1978-80), GDP growth was high (8.5% a year), 2.5 million
jobs were created, domestic consumption recovered, and the share of investment
and savings in GDP surpassed historical levels; but the economy became
increasingly overheated.
5.     Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to increas-
ing public deficits. While inflation rose, no significant pressure was felt to
adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the relative ease of
obtaining foreign finance. By mid-1981, the economic situation began to mirror
the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial crisis. The current account
deficit of the balance of payments reached 5.2% of GDP, while the deteriorating
international oil market conditions caused large revenue shortfalls with re-
spect to budget expectations. The public sector deficit rose to just under 15%
of GDP. Non-oil exports dropped, and the trade deficit reached record levels.
External borrowing was used to finance part of the domestic fiscal deficit and
to defend the exchange rate. Mexico's foreign debt increased rapidly, at a
time of high and rising international interest rates. A stabilization program
initiated by the Government in mid-1981 was not sufficient to redress the grow-
ing fiscal imbalance, the high cost of foreign loans, and the increasing pri-
vate capital flight fueled by the public's anxiety over Mexico's financial
troubles.
6.     The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40% devaluation in US dollar terms. A large wage adjustment
granted in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation, and
continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under strain.
Under the circumstances, the international banking community became reluctant
to commit new funds to Mexico in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35% in August 1982, while the acute shortage of foreign
exchange forced the Government to suspend the amortization payments of most of
Mexico's external public debt, pending a broader agreement on its refinancing.
Capital flight continued as private sector confidence was shaken by the nation-
alization of the banks in September 1982, and the mandatory conversion of US
dollar deposits into pesos. Also put into effect were a generalized system of
exchange controls and quantitative trade restrictions covering an unprecedented
100% of imports.
Recent Developnents
7.     The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps t. recover domestic and external
confidence, and stabilize the public sector and external finances. The Govern-
ment's stabilization program, supported by an EFF agreement approved by the IMF
in December 1982, laid the basis for restoring economic stability and for the



-3-
renegotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on which amortiza-
tion p.4-Jments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial banks agreed to
restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide US$5 billion
in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between August 23, 1982
and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight-year period starting from
January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at an interest rate of
1-718 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New York prime rate).
The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a 3-year grace period,
at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The restructuring exercise
included an understanding that the international banks would maintain their
exposure to the Mexican banks that had been nationalized. At the same time, it
provided a mechanism that would eliminate 1982 private sector interest arrears
and facilitate payment of the rescheduled principal on such debt.
8.     A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at MexS95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35% in relation to
the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. The free
market rate had remained at about Mex$150 per dollar until September 1983, when
the authorities decided to let it slide as much as the controlled rate. The
differential between the two rates, which in December 1982 stood close to 60Z,
is now down to less than 10%. Over the past two years, the peso has gradually
appreciated in real terms as inflation in Mexico remained high. The Government
increased the rate of slide of the peso from 13 centavos a day to 17 centavos
in December 1984, and to 21 centavos early March 1985, in order to bring it
closer to the expected inflation differential between Mexico and its tradin1
partners. Domestic deposit interest rates were also raised in early March 1985
from an average of about 45% to nearly 50%.
9.     Under the DMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a dras-
tic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0X of GDP in 1982 to 8.5%
in 1983, 5.5% in 1984, and 3.5% in 1985. Substantial progress has been made
during the past two years in meeting the Drogram objectives, although the tar-
gets for 1984 were not fully met. The public finances were strengthened con-
siderably and the public sector deficit was reduced to 8.7% of GDP in 1983 and
an estimated 7.4% in 1984. The main reason for the higher budget deficit than
the 1984 target was the much higher than expected interest payments on the
domestic debt. Curbs on expenditures were wide ranging. However, recent esti-
mates suggest that real public investment-encompassing states and local
governments--may have been well in excess of the targets for 1984. The author-
ities nave given priority to completing projects that were already far advanced
and to those that were important for employment, equity, or foreign exchange
earnings. Nonetheless, public investment expenditures are estimated to have
declined to about 7% of GDP in 1983-84, well below the 1982 level of 11.7%.
The fiscal performance was also aided by significant price increases for nearly
all public goods and services, including petroleum products, electricity rates,
food, etc. The Government has committed itself to a substantial reduction and
eventual elimination of most subsidies, including those provided in the form of
low interest rates.
10.    The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround in 1983 with the
current account moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a



-4-
surplus of US$5.5 billion. The strength of the current account and the avail-
ability of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its international
reserves while paying a large part of the arrears that had accumulated in
1982. The net use of foreign financing by the public sector was US$4.2 billion
for the year-below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the stabilization pro-
gram. The errors and omissions account of the balance of payments dropped from
US$8 billion in 1982 to an estimated US$1.4 billion in 1983, largely reflecting
the decline in unrecorded capital outflows.  The swing in the current account
was mainly the result of a very sharp contraction of merchandise imports, to
USS7.7 billion, representing a decline of about US$7 billion from their 1982
level. The recession, the large devaluation of the peso, and the quantitative
restrictions, all contributed to this. The balance of payments remained strong
in 1984, with a current account surplus of US$3.7 billion; and a further US$2.5
billion were added to the nation's foreign exchange reserves, which at the
year's end are estimated at about 7-1/2 months of imports. Although imports
recovered considerably, a rapid rise in non-oil exports, particularly in the
first quarter of 1984, ensured that the trade surplus remained at the same
level as in 19B3, i.e., about US$13 billion. Growth in tourism and in-bond
industry was also strong, and helped in alleviating unemployment. These favor-
able external trends during late 1983 and early 1984 weakened in mid-1984,
owing to an appreciating real exchange rate.
11.    Fighting inflation remains the pivot of the C-overnment's stabilization
program. Although the Government's own inflationary targets have been missed
by wide margins, the rate--of inflation continued to decline through mid-1984.
It declined from a rate of about 100% in 1982, to 80X and 59% in 1983 and
1984, respectively. The main factors in this were restrained fiscal and mone-
tary policies and moderate wage adjustments. The flow of savings into the
banking system continued to rise, reflecting the beneficial influence of the
exchange rate and interest rate policies. The impact of the severe and sudden
cuts in public expenditure and imports on economic growth in 1983 was serious
when GDP declined by over 5%.  However, the economic recovery in 1984 was
stronger than the Government's expectations: GDP is estimated to have risen by
about 3.5%, compared to the earlier estimate of only 1%. Since the latter half
of 1984, fiscal, monetary, and external trends have signaled a possible
resurgence of inflationary pressures.
12.    The Government also took steps to regain the confidence of both domestic
and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with the prob-
lems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of nationalized
banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment law.   Nego-
tiations with commercial banks and other private creditors have been completed
for the refinanciog of nearly half of the total of US$11.6 billioa of private
sector obligations, at stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12 years,
with 3- to 4-year grace periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the re-
structuring of Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official credit
agencies abroad. The Government has also transferred back to private ownership
most of the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial banks
prior to their nationalization. These measures and announcements have been
beneficial, but more remains to be done to restore the confidence of Mexican
entrepreneurs and foreign investors. The Government realizes that this is an
issue of the greatest importance, as economic recovery beyond the current
stabilization period will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous
private investment.



- 5 -
13.    The general improvement in the Mexican economy has been widely noted,
particularly by the international banking community. Mainly for this reason,
the Government's 1984 borrowing of US$3.8 billion from commercial banks carried
much more favorable terms than the borrowing in 1983 (10 year maturity, 5-3/4
year grace period, and a spread of 1-1/2% over LIBOR or 1-1/8Z  ver prime).
The negotiations between the Government and foreign commercial banks on the
rescheduling of foreign debt have been virtually completed. The draft agree-
ment, covering close to US$50 billion, has been submitted by the Banks' Advi-
sory Group (consisting of the 13 largest lenders) to some 500 smaller regional
banks for their acceptance. Under the proposed terms, the previously unre-
scheduled debt (amounting to about US$20 billion), which is due for repayment
in 1985-90, will have its maturitieg stretched over 14 years. The maturities
of the previously rescheduled debt coming due in 1987-90 will be stretched over
11 years. The 1983 syndicate loan of US$5 billion will be restructured, after
prepayment of US$1 billion, to carry terms identical to the 1984 syndicate
loan. In summary, the pending rescheduling agreement will stretch maturities
of US$50 billion public debt in such a way that the debt service remains vir-
tually constant between 1985-1998, in contrast to the present situation, where
75% of the debt service is due in 1986-89. The banks will have the choice of
LIBOR, a domestic reference rate, or a fixed rate. These terms are based on
the understanding that the Government will continue to adhere to prudent eco-
nomic policies. The rescheduling agreement covering US$29 billion of Govern-
ment debt was signed on March 29, 1985. Another US$19 billion in loans to
Mexican Government agencies will be refinanced between now and June. This
followed the approval on March 25 by the IMF of a third-year Extended Fund
Facility.
Mediu-rTerm Prospects
14.    The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development Plan
(NDP) for 19C3-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present crisis
with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth to over-
come structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the years ahead
include the still very high rate of population growth (2.6% estimated for 1983)
together with an even higher rate of labor force growth (a little under 4%),
slow growth in agriculture, poverty, a highly skewed interpersonal ane _nter-
regional income distribution, and an overly oil-dependent economy with a strong
anti-export bias.
15.    The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy, including a greater export orientation
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through basic
needs policies and improvement in labor absorption, and decentralization of
economic activity. The basic elements of policies to address structural prob-
lems are mentioned in the NDP, and further details on specific programs and
schedules for policy adjustments are provided in the sectoral plans which were
prepared subsequently.
16.    Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are reasonably good, provided economic management continues to be prudent, pri-
vate sector confidence is restored, and the international environment remains
favorable. Adequate domestic policies include inter alia continued efforts to
reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade, minimize price distortions, and
maintain a competitive exchange rate. With regard to the latter, there is some



concern that the continuing hi'her than projected domestic inflation rate will
lead to an undesirable appreciation of the real effective exchange rate.
Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial, since only a strong and
dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the p:esent de-
pressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oll export surplus required for
the resumption of growth. As regards the external environment, the coimercial
banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real terms, and for-
eign markets, to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports. Mexico will benefit
directly from a continuing fall in interest rates in the world financial mar-
kets (a one percentage point drop means a savings of about US$800 million in
overall interest payments, which compares to a loss of US$550 million in gross
export revenues that would result from a one dollar drop in the export price of
oil).
17.    Under reasonably favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 6% a year-the post-WWII average for
Mexico--towards the late 1980s. This growth would materialize through a sus-
tained redirection of the economy toward a more outward-oriented growth pat-
tern. Fiscal discipline, in the absence of improved domestic efficiency and
export development, would likely entail a prolonged period of slow growth,
characterized by insufficient labor absorption in internationally competitive
activities, domestic price distortions, and a continued need for subsidies.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
18.   Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983, and by about a similar amount in 1984. With an expected net new borrow-
ing of some US$3 to US$4 billion a year, the ratio of external debt to GDP
would decline steadily from 41% in 1984, to 33% by 1990.  The debt service
ratio, after the proposed rescheduling, is projected to peak at 472 in 1988;
thereafter, it gradually declines to about 25% in 1995.
19.    At the end of 1983, the last year for which a comprehensive external
debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was
4.3% (excluding undisbursed). The Bank share in Mexico's total public external
debt service payments during that year was 4%. In view of the good medium- and
long-term potential of its economy and the prospect of continued pursuit of
sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is considered
creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERAIIONS IN NEXICO
Bank Operations
20.    As of March 31, 1985, Mexico had received 85 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$6,831.3 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 58 loans totalling US$3,495.2 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$5,465.6 million, of which US$1,948.9 million had not yet been dis-
bursed. Some 42% of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural devel-
opment, 23% fGr industry, 11% for pewer, and 13% for transportation; the
remaining 11X has been for water supply, tourism, urban development, vocational
training and pollution control projects. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans as of March 31, 1985.



-7-
21.    Of the US$6.83 billion total lending, about US$3.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the cor-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments '- agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs have
facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale indus-
trial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans, rather than
credit granted on the basis of collateral.
22.    The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978 to
1981, which significantly improved project implementation.  Government and Bank
officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater atten-
tion was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these mea-
sures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily
until mid-1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78, to US$448
million in FY82. However, the present financial crisis is again causing delays
in the provision of counterpart funds; consequently, disbursements in FY83
declined to US$389 million.  A Special Action Program (SAP) was established in
early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding con-
straints on development projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects are receiving
support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, disbursements during
1984 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35% over disbursements in
1983.
IFC Operations
23.    As of March 31, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27 compa-
nies in Mexico, for a total of USS753.9 million, of which US$562.5 million had
been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC investments is pre-
sented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank in preparing
proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign exchange financing
to private sector companies, for the importation of machinery, equipment and
spare parts required for production of exportable products, for efficient
import substitution, and for improvements in the utilization of their existing
productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100 million facility (including funds
mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in 1983, which is providing finance
for fixed investments of a larger size than those assisted under the Bank loan
for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
24.    The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico in the past eight years
have been to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, di-
rectly or indirectly, contribute significantly to output and employment;
(c) help reduce Mecico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottle-
necks which prevent rapid growth. More recently, however, in response to
Mexico's requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close
cooperation with the IMF, also supported the Government's stabilization program
through assistance for export promotion and intensified and broadened economic
and sector work.  As for medium-term prospects, the volume and composition of
Bank lending to Mexico would be related to progress in the implementation of
policy reforms needed for structural economic adjustments, through broad policy



- 8 -
conditionality affecting the entire lending program or important parts of it.
Specific policy reforms that are being pursued through a dialogue with the
Government, conducted in parallel with the processing of lending operations,
cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues, such as interest rate
policy, energy pricing, subsidy reduction, and export development.
25.    Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the sec-
tor's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's Ttopulation living in
the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lend-
ing. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four goals: first,
to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in general; second,
to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small farmers; third, to
complement infrastructure investments with support services, such as extension,
marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to promote employment-generating
investments in rural areas. The Bank has made 14 loans in FYs78-83 totalling
US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural development and agricultural, agro-
industrial and livestock credit programs. A US$175 million loan for a rural
development project and a US$180 million loan for an irrigation rehabilitation
project were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4 mil-
lion loan for San Fernando rainfed agricultural development was approved in
early FY83.  A US$115 million loan for marketing perishables was approved by
the Executive Directors in April 1983, and a $300 million Eighth Agricultural
Credit Project in June 1984. A US$90 million loan for a Chiapas Agricultural
Development Project, together with a Chiapas Rural Roads Project, was approved
by the Executive Directors on-April 30, 1985. Projects for tropical agricul-
ture, irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed multiplication,
and agricultural credit are in various stages of preparation.
26.    Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance of
payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the major,
increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employment. A
steel project, which the Bank helped structure and finance, is now operating in
a previously underdeveloped area on the West coast of Mexico, and the city in
which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a new growth pole.
Four loans for industrial projects-to promote the development of small- and
mediumrscale industrial enterprises, to finance expansion of small- and medium-
scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment fund (FONEI)-iwere ap-
proved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. A US$90.0 million loan for a
vocational training project, which is assisting a program to increase the sup-
ply of skilled workers and technicians, a US$152.3 million loan for the devel-
opment of a capital goods industries project, and a US$60 million loan for
pollution control were approved by the Executive Directors in FY82. A modifi-
cation in the capital goods project was approved by the Executive Directors in
early 1983, to set up a pilot export development fund to help satisfy the for-
eign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A US$350 million loan for an Export
Development Project and a US$175 million loan for a Third Small- and Mediumr
Scale Industry Development Project were approved by the Executive Directors in
FY83. A US$105 million second small- and mediumr-scale mining development proj-
ect is expected to be presented to the Executive Directors on May 21, 1985, and
a second technical training project, on May 28, 1985.
27.    Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies. Two highway



-9 -
sector projects (FY79 and FY84), the fourth railway project (FY81), and an
industrial ports project (FY84) support these goals. The first and second
mediumr-size cities water supply and sewerage projects (FY76 and 81) reinforce
the planning, management and finance of specialized water supply and sewerage
institutions at the federal and municipal levels, and contribu--: to the estab-
lishment of tariffs more closely related to costs; a third project was approved
by the Executive Directors on May 17, 1983.
28.    The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that spells
out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A project to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was approved by the
Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for oil-producing
southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in FY81. A loan
for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico City Region was
approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
29.    The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE ("Centro de
Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico' under the Secretariat of Programming and
Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, monitoring, and
evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and regional devel-
opment, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries. The Bank has also
assisted the Mexican authorities in training personnel for managing water
supply and industrial credit projects.
30.    The Inter-Americ'an Development Bank (IDB) is the second larkest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling
US$3.4 billion as of March 31, 1985. Over 50X of the total has gone to agri-
cultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transportation,
industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure, education, munici-
pal development, and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank have coordinated
their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for the national
integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and livestock
credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel development
projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in the state
of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the Bank is
acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
31.    Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer, and tourism projects in Mexico
have been cofinanced by several bilateral export credit agencies and commercial
banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from commercial banks
to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted projects where project
specific cofinancing would have been difficult.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General Background
32.    Transport investments in Mexico have fluctuated over the past two de-
cades, declining as a percentage of public sector investment from 21% in 1972,
to around 9% in 1979. In response to the emerging bottlenecks, which were



- 10 -
aggravated by the oil boom and high grain imports, investment outlays were
raised after 1979, until budgetary restrictions in 1982 again cut back on sec-
tor Investments.  Transport investnents in 1984-net of allocations for urban
transport--amounted to about US$1.2 billion, representing some 10.7% of total
public investment. Maintenance, reconstruction and rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure, and completion of ongoing works, have been given high priority,
while major new investments have been deferred. Given the lull in transport
demand since tne 1982 economic recession, this strategy has, up to now, been
satisfactory, as several industries that experienced transport bottlenecks in
the recent past do not now anticipate difficulties in the near future.
33.    The 1985 investment program reflects continued severe budgetary restric-
tions, with the sector's share in total public sector outlays remaining the
same as in 1984. Recent Bank reviews of transport sector investments found
that budgetted funds have been appropriately allocated among the various sub-
sectors, taking into consideration the current economic constraints and that
overall subsector investment programs are sound. During the remainder of the
current six-year presidential term, however, the Government expects that, as
the economy and demand for transport services recover, major new investments
would have to be undertaken in the highways, railways, airports and ports
sectors. Priority investments will include toll road widenings, new rail lines
to and along the Gulf Coast, new railway yards, expanded capacity for the
Mexico City airport, commercial port improvements, and the completion of an
industrial port at Altamira. Their timing will depend on the speed of the
economic recovery.
Major Sector Issues
34.    Mexico's transport sector faces two major issues:  fuel prices and road
user charges. Following a stated policy of gradually phasing out the price
subsidies involved, the Government has, since 1981, raised gasoline prices by
247% in real terms, and diesel prices by 367%. The price of diesel currently
stands at 77% of the relevant--Caribbean-based-international price, while the
price of gasoline is slightly above the international comparator. In January
1985 the Government raised diesel prices by 20% and established an automatic
monthly increase of 2.5% thereafter, which-together with additional periodic
increases--should bring prices closer to international levels. With the pre-
sent price levels, no major distortions are evident in the transport sector.
The issue of whether road-related taxes cover sufficiently the cost of provid-
ing road infrastructure and whether heavy vehicles are paying their costs, is
currently under review in a study included in the Second Highway Sector Loan
(Ln. 2428-ME).
Institutional Framework and Planning
35.    The current Administration introduced a far-reaching institutional re-
form in December 1982, incorporating all transport agencies under the Secreta-
riat of Communications and Transport (SCT). Earlier dispersed institutional
arrangements hampered coordination of planning and investment, and limited the
scope of the Bank's dialogue on sectoral issues. A new Subsecretariat for
Infrastructure in SCT now handles infrastructure development for almost all
modes of transport, and a Subsecretariat for Operations has responsibility for
operational, regulatory and tariff matters, including those of the railways
subsector.



- 11 -
36.    The construction of rail infrastructure and yards is handled by the
Directorate General for Railway Infrastructure (DGVF) of SCT, and the completed
works are turned over to the Government-owned railways, including Nacionales de
Mexico (N de M), which operates some 15,324 kms of the country's total network
of 19,000 km'; the rest is operated by the Pacific Railway, the Chihuahua Rail-
way, and the Sonora-Baja California Railway. The Government is cautiously
considering the complete merger of all Government-owned railways under N de M.
This is not expected to affect adversely N de M's operations or sector perfor-
mance, as the screening criteria for investments (para. 58) would apply to any
affiliate that is merged with N de M during implementation of the proposed
project.
Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (N de M)
37.    N de M is a well-developed railway company, operating 802 of the coun-
try's railway network and transporting 82% of total ton/kms and 70% of all
passengers moving by rail.  It employs some 64,000 people.  The railways' man-
agement achieved considerable improvements in operations and finance in the
1970-1984 period: it increased labor productivity, from 366,000 units of traf-
fic per employee to 641,000; locomotive utilization rose from 75,600 kms per
year to 93,500 kms per year for freight, and from 130,700 kms to 245,000 kms
for passenger trains; the average carload increased from 39 to 55 tons per car;
and passenger occupancy went up from 31 to 60 per coach. While some 27,000
foreign cars saturated yard and line capacity in 1980, their number has been
reduced. to 2,500. Through the increased use of unit and direct trains, N de M
also reduced car turnaround times from a high of 23 days to 17 days in the last
four years.
38.     Through these improvements, N de M has been able to serve a volume of
traffic that grew-like GDP-at 5% per year in 1970-1984.  In contrast to a
worldwide trend, Mexico's railway traffic has steadily increased, and N de M
kept its share in the transport of its principal commodities, such as grains,
iron ore, coke, coal, sugar, fertilizer, cement, and many steel products.
39.    Despite the growth in traffic, the gap betwen N de M's revenues and
costs widened considerably, mainly because of inadequate tariff increases and
sharply rising operating costs due to inflation. Operating losses were fi-
nanced with Government subsidies and long-term borrowing. In order to ratio-
nalize N de M's financial structure, freight tariffs were raised in real terms
by 40% from 1980 to 1984.  The combined effect of growth in traffic and real
term tariff increases was a 28% real increase in N de M's revenues in 1983,
over the 1982 level. Its working and operating ratios also improved from 1.49
and 1.72, respectively, in 1980, to 0.91 and 1.16 in 1983.
Areas of Concern in the Railway Subsector
40.    Through two previous railway operations (Lns. 1232-ME and 1929-ME), the
Bank followed closely the difficulties facing Mexico's railways subsector, as
well as the more recent initiatives by the Government to rationalize railway
operations and finance. While N de M has achieved significant improvements
(paras. 37 and 38), more remains to be done. The main problem areas of the
railways are discussed below, as are the proposed remedial measures, which
would be reflected in an agreed Plan of Action in connection with the proposed
project's implementation (para. 67).



- 12 -
Traffic Forecasts and Commercial Practices
41.    Traffic forecasts prepared by N de M for previous Bank projects have
proven to be overly optimistic, mainly because of a drop in demand for servi-
ces caused by the severe recessions of 1976 and 1982, and because of ups-and-
downs in grain imports due to unexpected poor or good harvests. To plan its
investments-particularly in locomotives and rolling stock-traffic was fore-
cast over 1985-1988 using N de M's product-by-product methodology, which pre-
dicts an annual growth of 5Z in total ton-kms hauled. For its financial
projections, however, N de M prepared a low forecast based on data from the
past 14 years, which showed an annual growth rate of about 3% in total ton-
kms. To help respond to expected traffic demand effectively, N de M would:
(a) by March 1986, review its costing for a number of important product move-
ments and for backhaul services; Cb) by September 1986, study the organization
and staffing of its commercial department and propose a restructuring; and,
(c) by December 1986, prepare a marketing strategy whi-ch would be applied no
later than April 1987.
Financial Status
42.    Although N de M's working and operating ratios already improved signifi-
cantly (para. 39) and freight tariff adjustments kept ahead of inflation since
1982, a number of important commodities, e.g., iron ore, coal, coke and cement,
are still being carried at tariffs that do not cover long-run variable costs,
i.e., operating costs, plus an adequate capital recovery factor. At negotia-
tions it was agreed that, as a special condition of the proposed loan's effec-
tiveness, the Government and N de M would take appropriate action to reclassify
some of these commodities. It was also agreed that N de H would gradually
increase revenues from its transport operations so as to cover, by no later
than January 1, 1988, the long-term variable cost for the transport of each
commodity (Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement).
43.    Another obstacle to N de M's financial viability is its debt burden.
By 1983, interest payments amounted to 46% of gross revenues. Since a major
part of this long-term debt related to borrowing to cover operating cash short-
falls that resulted from the Government's refusal to authorize tariff adjust-
ments in line with inflation, N de M and the Government have decided to
transfer a portion of the debt to the Government. An agreement has now been
finalized according to which the Government would, through the Secretariat of
Finance and Public Credit (SHCP), assume 40% of N de M's existing long-term
debt by converting it into Government equity beginning in 1985. By 1988, the
railways would be in a position to service its remaining debt, assuming that
its financial situation is improved under the project as currently projected.
During negotiations, an assurance was obtained that N de M would: (a) achieve
for each fiscal year in 1985-1988 and maintain thereafter, ratios of its total
working expenses to total operating revenues of, respectively, 78%, 77%, 75%,
and 73%, and ratios of total operating expenses, including depreciation costs,
to total operating revenues of, respectively, 105%, 103%, 100%, and 97% (Sec-
tion 4.03 of the Project Agreement); and (b) achieve a debt service coverage of
94% by 1988 (Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement).
Locomotive and Wagon Utilization
44.    N de M's locomotive fleet comprises 1,608 standard gauge units, with an
average age of over 10 years. Steadily increasing traffic in recent years led



- 13 -
to neglected maintenance and a declining availability of diesel engines, which
dropped to an all time low of 65.5% in 1983. A recovery in performance began
in 1984, when locomotive availability climbed back to 68% under an integrated
locomotive recovery plan. To help carry out the plan, N de M would allocate
sufficient funds for locomotive spare parts, and carry out, not later than
December 31, 1988, a scrapping program of about 218 locomotives (Section 3.02
(b), of the Project Agreement). In addition, N de M would rehabilitate loco-
motives, review workshop practices, and provide the required training. To
support its maintenance effort, N de M has already renegotiated with the unions
the workshop labor practices dealing with staff reorganization, training, job
upgrading and related pay incentives. As a result of these undertakings, loco-
motive availability is expected to reach 802 by 1988, and the fleet size would
be reduced to about 1,457 units. Wagon turnaround time also needs to be
improved to achieve greater operational efficiency. Therefore, N de M would,
by June 1986, complete installation of the operational control system and, by
December 1986, report to the Bank on its experience with the new system and
discuss its future application.
Track Condition and Maintenance
45.    N de M's track infrastructure faces two major problems:  high operating
costs and limited capacity due to excessive gradients and too many sharp curves
on its main lines; and frequent accidents because of deficient track condi-
tions. Labor-intensive maintenance techniques have become ineffective to meet
the requirements of lines with heavy traffic densities. N de M has launched a
program of mechanized track maintenance, with substantial equipment purchases
and a redeployment of labor beginning in 1985. To support this program, an
agreement was reached during negotiations that N de M would allocate sufficient
funds for the maintenance of rail track and the equipment required (Section
3.02 (b) (i) of the Project Agreement). N de M would monitor the productivity
of the mechanized maintenance units and-accomplish the agreed rehabilitation
and maintenance targets set for 1985-1988.
Yard Capacity
46.    Freight wagons generally spend a major part of their available time in
yards; hence, a principal factor in achieving reduced turnaround times is yard
capacity. Existing yards in Mexico City, Monterrey, Guadalajara and
Coatzacoalcos-have limited capacity, and-as they are located in dense urban
areas-the possibilities for physical expansion are virtually nil.  Therefore,
N de M would, by September 30, 1986, carry out and furnish to the Bank a master
plan study of its future yard needs to appropriately locate, design, and stage
the construction of new yard facilities. The study also would-as a stopgap
measure-review existing yard operations and determine what, if any, improve-
ments can be achieved by reorganizing and rationalizing operations and manage-
ment in the short-term, before the required new yard investments can be
programmed.
Passenger Services
47.   N de M offers a variety of inter-urban passenger services, including
sleeping car service, first class special, first class and second class servic-
es, as well as a mixed freight and passenger train service on remote low densi-
ty lines. Its revenues from these services account for about 3-4% of its total



- 14 -
operational income. N de M's passenger operations continue to generate defi-
cits, and service levels are deteriorating. About 43Z of all passenger servic-
es were eliminated in the mid-1970s, after being declared uneconomic. However,
traffic on the remaining services has grown in recent years.
48.    Railway passenger fares cover only about three-fifths of short-run vari-
able costs, and are at a level well below bus fares. Yet, the Government has
been reluctant to raise railway fares substantially, because the service is
inferior and nearly nine-tenths of all passengers are low-income earners, using
second class service. In spite of this fare policy, declining unit costs,
higher passenger occupancy, and reduced uneconomic services, have helped reduce
N de M's deficit from its passenger operations by 37% in real terms between
1980 and 1984. But current Government subsidies still amount to some US$26
million each year, and the Government and N de M need to act to curb these
losses.
49.    As part of its modernization plan, N de M has proposed a comprehensive
strategy for passenger services, including a new fare policy to reduce subsi-
dies, the improvement of services along high density lines, an evaluation of
the potential for new first class service on main lines, and the gradual elimi-
nation of services on low density lines which have no social or economic justi-
fication. Through this strategy, N de M expects its passenger kms to grow at a
rate of 3.8% per year in 1985-1988.
50.    To implement the above strategy, N de M would carry out, by November
1986, a detailed costing of passenger services by line. In addition, an agree-
ment was reached during negotiations that N de M would gradually increase reve-
nues from its transport operations, and would, not later than January 1, 1988,
cover the long-term variable cost for the transport of passengers (Section 4.02
of the Project Agreement), provided, however, that, in the case of second-class
passenger services, whenever the Government-based on economic and social con-
siderations-establishes passenger fares lower than those required above, the
Government would exchange views with the Bank on the relevant economic and
social considerations (Section 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement). As a princi-
pal element of its strategy, N de M would replace existing, and purchase new,
passenger coaches with appropriate design characteristics (paras. 59 and 66).
Furthermore, to assure a sound financial basis for the above strategy, it was
agreed that the Government would, in a timely manner, compensate FNM for the
losses incurred by FNM in its passenger service operations (Section 4.03 of the
Guarantee Agreement).
Management and Training
51.    To cope with growing traffic and the increasing complexity of its opera-
tions, N de M needs to continue to improve its institutional capabilities
through the adoption of modern management techniques and the provision of re-
lated training. In addition to the actions referred to in paras. 41, 44 and
46, N de M would, by December 1987, modernize its accounting system to enable
costing, budgetting, and other management information to be processed by comr
puters, and, by September 1987, establish an accounting mechanism to monitor
the cost of its workshops. While N de M has enjoyed a measure of stability in
its management, it neglected to groom a cadre of young middle-management per-
sonnel that would be needed as staff retires and as N de M adopts modern man-
agement techniques. In the past, adequate training has been provided for oper-
ational personnel, but not tor management. To shore up its management, N de M



- 15 -
would upgrade and promote qualified personnel from its ranks and recruit young
university graduates. Training would be provided under the project for these
young professionals, and the loan would finance the estimated foreign exchange
costs of the program (para. 61).
Past Bank ParLicipation
52.    The Bank has been involved extensively in Mexico's transport sector.  It
made nine highway loans, totalling US$587 million, helping develop the trunk
road network and primary roads, and improving rural roads maintenance. The
Bank also financed three port operations, including an engineering loan
(Ln. 1964-ME) for project preparation, and the recently approved Lazaro
Cardenas Industrial Port project (Ln. 2450-ME). An airport loan (Ln. 1022-ME)
was made in 1974, assisting with the commercial accounting systems of the
airport authority.
53.    In the railways subsector, the Bank has made four loans totalling US$386
million, to help finance rehabilitation and modernization works, and the pur-
chase of locomotives, rolling stock, rails and other equipment. The first loan
(Ln. 103-ME) was made to Ferrocarriles del Pacifico, and the project was suc-
cessfully completed in the late 1950s. The second loan (Ln. 825-ME)-as all
other follow-up operations--was made to N de M. Repeater loans (Lns. 1232-ME
and 1929-ME) to N de M were made in 1976 and 1980. The second N de M loan was
completed in 1982, and the third one is nearing completion at this time. More
than two-thirds of Ln. 1929-ME has been disbursed, and tenders-committing the
full loan amount--ard-expected to be approved by the Bank by June 1985.
Achievements in the railway subsector (paras. 37 and 38) have been supported by
these loans. Yet, the economic policies that led to Mexico's 1982 economic
crisis created considerable problems for N de M's management, operations, and
financial performance. Project Completion Reports for the Seventh Highway
Project (Ln. 968-ME), dated June 22, 1982, and for the Third Railvay Project
CLn. 1232-ME), dated October 7, 1983, both recommended the sector lending
format in order to broaden the Bank's participation in the subsectors and to
provide for flexibility in dealing with changing investment priorities and
budgetary allocations, caused by varying economic conditions.
Bank Strategy
54.    The current Government Administr4tion, that came into office in late
1982, has taken a series of important measures, which have been of long-stand-
ing concern to the Bank in the past, particularly with regard to sector pricing
and institutional arrangements. In response to these Mexican initiatives, the
Bank's lending strategy for the sector, in accordance with its overall objec-
tives for lending to Mexico, is to help improve infrastructure, strengthen
operations and maintenance, assist in reassessing medium- and long-term invest-
ment needs, provide support for a rational pricing policy, and develop quick-
disbursing loans to transfer foreign exchange resources to the country.
Stepped-up lending for the sector has provided a framework for constructive
dialogue on the above objectives. The Second Highway Sector project
(Ln. 2428-ME) and the Industrial Port project (Ln. 2450-ME) established the
Bank's presence in the highway and port subsectors. The proposed Railways
Sector project would round out the Bank's involvement in Mexico's transport
sector.



- 16 -
PART IV - TEE PROCT
55.    The Government requested the Bank to consider a follow-up railways loan
in February 1983. Following identification in September 1983, the project was
prepared jointly by N de M and SCT. A Bank appraisal mission visited Mexico in
October 1984. A far-reaching program to modernize the railways served as a
basis for the appraisal and a February 1985 post-appraisal. Negotiations took
place in the Bank in April-May 1985, and the Mexican delegation was headed by
Mr. German Sandoval Faz, Manager, Special Operations and Financial Analysis, of
BANOBRAS, and included Messrs. Francisco Gorostiza Perez and Salvador Manrique
Morales, representing N de M; Oscar De Buen Richkarday and Eduardo J. Barousse
Moreno, SCT; and Hector Flores Santana, SHCP. The Staff Appraisal Reporti
(No. 5464b-ME of May 14, 1985) is being circulated separately. Annex III
provides supplementary data on the project.
Project Objectives
56.    The proposed sector loan would help finance the 1985-1988 time-slice of
the N de M and SCT investment programs, and accomplish the following objec-
tives:
(a)    Improve railway capacity through a balanced investment program;
(b)    Continue improvements in railway opearting efficiency, through
higher productivity of equipment and human resources;
(c)    Promote financial self-sufficiency for railway services, with
tariffs appropriately related to railway costs and a rationalized
debt structure;
Cd)    Strengthen the commercial practices for railway services; and
Ce)    Upgrade planning methods for assessing railway infrastructure
requirements.
1985-1988 Railway Investment Program
57.    Rail investments in Mexico have nearly doubled in real terms since 1977,
reaching US$525 million equivalent annually in the 1980-1982 period. Track
rehabilitation and new construction, including the electrification and double
tracking of some main lines, have a major share in increased investments. Out-
lays for signaling, telecommunications, workshop and track machinery, and pas-
senger coaches have declined in relative terms. The Bank reviewed these past
investments, and, in general, found them economically sound.
58.    The Bank already evaluated the investment proposals for 1985, and con-
ducted a general overview of the 1986-1988 investmbnts: N de M's program is
about US$300 million equivalent each year, while SCT intends to invest US$230
million yearly.  The programs give preference to track maintenance anc rehab'l-
itation, signaling, telecommunications, and workshop and track equipment. Both
the level and composition of railway investments are adjusted from year to
year, in line with traffic expectations and macroeconomic developments. During
negotiations, it was agreed that, no later than November 30, 1985, and every



- 17 -
year thereafter until the coupletion of the project, N de M and sCT would fur-
nish the railway investment program for the following four-year period, all in
a manner acceptable to the Bank (Sections 2.05 and 3.05 of the Project and
Guarantee Agreements, respectively). To help maintain the quality Of railway
investments, an assurance was also obtained that any investment subproject
included in SCT's and N de M's 1985-1988 investment program would: (a) have an
economic rate of return of at least 12%, calculated in accordance with a method
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) conform to designs and specifications
acceptable to the Bank (Sections 3.06 and 2.06 of the Guarantee and Project
Agreements, respectively).
59.    N de M would:  (a) rehabilitate some 362 km of line with new rail, and
another '23 km per year with recovered rail in 1985-1988; (b) acquire track
machinery and introduce mechanized track maintenance; (c) comPlete central
traffic control over 595 km of line, study further traffic control require-
ments, and install additional traffic control equipment as justified by the
study; (d) install combined telecommunications and operational control systems
based on ongoing studies, extending them gradually to the network of its three
affiliates, the Pacific, Chihuahua, and Sonora-Baja California Railways, and
provide some 700 locomotives and track and train crews with VHF radios;
Ce) purchase about 40 new locomotives through 1986, and rehabilitate 20
existing engines a year in 1985-1988; and {f) improve its rolling stock by
purchasing 460 wagons in 1985 and an additional 1,500 each year in 1986-1988,
and rehabilitating approximately 700 wagons per year in 1985-1988. In
addition, some 330 passenger coaches would be purchased in 1985-1988,-beginning
with 30-50 special first class coaches in 1985.
60.    SCT-allocating some 67% of its 1985-1988 line and electrification
investments to the completion of ongoing works--would: (a) complete the double
tracking and electrification of the Mexico City-Queretaro-Irapuato line;
Cb) regrade and realign other major lines; (c) complete a new line between
Guadalajara and Monterrey, including bypasses around Guadalaiara, Monterrey and
Saltillo; and (d) conclude realignment of the Mexico City-Lazaro Cardenas
line. Towards the end of its four-year program, substantial allocations would
also be made for major yard investments.
Technical Support
61.    To assist N de H and SCT in carrying out their 1985-1988 investment pro-
gram, the Bank project would provide technical assistance for improving the
railways' commercial practices and management accounting system, for a yard
master plai study, and for the feasibility studies and engineering design of
interim yard investments, as well as for a middle management training program
by N de M.
Costs, Financing, Bank Participation
62.    The 1985-1988 railway investment programs of N de M and SCT are estimat-
ed to cost US$2.35 billion, including about US$850 willion in foreign ex-
change. A Bank loan of US$300 million would finance approximately 13% of total
program costs and 35% of the foreign exchange requirements. The loan would be
split into two equal parts between N de M and SCT, as follows:



- 18 -
Total Cost    Foreign       Bank
Components                   1985-1988      Exchange      Loan
N de M                             ---In US$ Millions              --
Rail                                 78.7         78.7       61.3
Track Machinery                      76.5        67.4        33.1
Locomotive Spare Parts              151.6        106.1       22.5
Wagon and Coach Components          531.1        51.7        32.1
Technical Assistance                  0.9         0.6         0.6
Training and Equipment                0.4         0.4         0.4
Subtotal                              839.2       304.9       150.0
SCT
Rail                                 86.5        86.5        86.5
Civil Works                         847.4       293.4        52.1
Track Machinery                      11.2        11.2         9.9
Technical Assistance                  2.0          1.5        1.5
Subtotal                              947.1       392.6       150.0
Bank-Financed Components            1,786.3       697.5       300.0
Other Components (Not                 568.1        151.7        -
-     Financed By the.Bank)
Total - Railway Investment          2,354.4       849.2       300.0
63.    BANOBRAS would be the Bank's Borrower, who would, under the same terms
and conditions as the Bank loan, transfer the proceeds of the loan to SCT and
N de M (Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement). These contractual arrangements
would be satisfactory to the Bank, and their execution would be a special
condition of the proposed loan's effectiveness (Section 6.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement). The Government also made a commitment during negotiations to
provide counterpart funds for carrying out the project (Section 2.02 of the
Guarantee Agreement).
64.    N de M's investment program includes US$457 million in direct foreign
exchange outlays for imported goods and services. It would be financed from
the proceeds of two BLnk loans (1929-HE and the proposed loan), suppliers'
credit, and U.S. Export-Import Bank loans/guarantees, including, possibly in
the outer years of the 1985-1988 investment program, commercial bank
cofinancing.
Project Implemntation
65.    The proposed railway sector loan is the Bank's first to finance a sub-
stantial civil works component in Mexico. It also covers a broad range of sec-
toral problem areas. Therefore, to strengthen the Bank's supervision effort
during project implementation, it was agreed during negotiations that SCT and
N de M would, at least twice a year, review the achievement of project objec-
tives, including the actual and planned levels of expenditures and works, and
the preparation of future works (Sections 2.04 and 3.08 (a) of the Project and



- 19 -
Guarantee Agreements, respectively). To ensure an efficient review process by
the Bank, an agreement was also reached that SCT and N de M would present
investments for Bank approval, furnishing the appraisal of the subproject, a
description of proposed expenditures, and the proposed designs and specifica-
tions; in addition, SCT made a commitment to complete all subprojects included
in its project component in a timely manner, and provide the funds and other
resources required for the purpose (Sections 3.07 (b) and 2.07 of the Guarantee
and Project Agreements, respectively).
66.    The Bank reviewed the technical design of both freight cars and passen-
ger coaches. The design of freight cars is satisfactory, but that of the
passenger coaches is relatively outdated, not reflecting more modern tubular,
all-welded, and anti-telescopic design features, which produce lighter and also
relatively safer cars. N de M would, together with Constructora Nacional de
Carros de Ferrocarril (CN)-the local manufacturer of wagons and passenger
cirs, explore the possibility of modernizing the design of its coaches, and, by
Pecember 31, 1985, furnish to the Bank and discuss its assessment of the advis-
ibility of using improved designs, and establish a s,stem for monitoring the
costs of passenger coaches.
Plan of Action
67.    The success of N de M's and SCT's 1985-1988 investment programs would
lepend on timely and adequate action in key problem areas discussed in paras.
A1 through 51, and 66. To assist N de M in implementing the proposed project,
i- was agreed during negotiations'that N de M would take action, in a manner
satisfactory to the Rank, to meet the operational and investment targets of a
Plai of Action for 1985-1988 (Section 2.01 (b) and the Schedule of the Project
Agreement). Together with the project's financial targets, it reflects the
essence of N de M's modernization program, as follows:
Caqxnpent                     1985    1986    1987       1988
Opemtional Tarets
Loaxmative KWhteight LooMDtive/Year     96,000   97,000  98,000  100,000
Lommotive Availability (%)                  71    \ 74       77      80
Net TonHSii2gpn/vy                       1,750    1,800   1,850    1,900
Averagn Wagn Turnarntd (Days)              17       16       15.5    15
W$ag  Availabiity (%)                       95      95       95      95
Foreign Cars n Line                      3,500    3,500    3,500    3,500
Average loadA*n (Tons)                      55      55       55      55
Prodictivity (Traffic Units/Eployee)   675,000  700,000  730,000  750,000
Investmnut Targets
Km of Rehalitatio with New Rail            340     350      370     385
Km of Rehijitaticn with Recovered Rail     260     215      210     200
Km of HMaitenance                        1,500    2,800    2,900    3,000
F-ancial Tarbts
Woidrg Ratio
- With Passer Compensation              0.75    0.76    0.72    0.70
- Without Passerwr Cmnersation          0.78    0.77    0.75    0.73
(conitUed)



- 20 -
CsTonM  t1985    1986    1987                          1988
Opemtlzg Ratio
- With Pseuir Clsspe oatLn             1.OD    0.99    0.96    0.95
- Without Pasenger Compyesatim         1.05    1.03    1.00    0.97
Debt SerVice CoVer8p
- With Passyipr Coxfsati n0.61    0.75    0.87    1.07
- lHtbout Pargenr Cdqtwmticn          0.52    0.64    0.75    0.94
Procurement
68.    All goods and civil works contracts to be financed out of the proceeds
of the loan would be procured subject to international competitive bidding, in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Local manufacturers would be granted the
usual 15% margin of preference. For goods estimated to cost less than
US$500,000 equivalent, tender documents and awards of contract would not be
subject to the Bank's prior review, provided that the aggregate value of such
contracts does not exceed US$50 million; for goods estimated to cost more than
US$500,000 equivalent, all tender documents and contract awards would have the
Bank's prior review. Draft tender documents and procedures for all civil works
contracts would also be reviewed by the Bank before calling for bids. Consul-
tants financed by the loan would be employed on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank, in accordance with Bank guidelines (Section 3.03 and Schedule
2 of the Guarantee Agreement, and Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement).
Disbursements and Auditing
69.    The Bank loan would be disbursed against:  1002 of the foreign expendi-
tures of imported goods, or 100% of the ex-factory costs net of taxes of local-
ly manufactured goods; 35% of the local costs and 100% of the foreign expendi-
tures of civil works; 100% of the cost of consultant services; and 100% of the
foreign expenditures for training, including scholarships and technical servi-
ces. The Bank would disburse against statements of expenditures for civil
works. The loan would disburse in seven years, and the Closing Date would be
June 30, 1992. Project accounts maintained by N de M and SCT would be audited
once yearly, according to standards satisfactory to the Bank. The statement of
expenditures would be covered by these annual audits (Sections 4.01 of the
Guarantee and Project Agreements). To help speed up disbursements, a Special
Account of US$20 million would be set up in BANOBRAS, which would be audited
separately, in accordance with terms satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.01 of
the Loan Agreement).
Project Justification and Benefits
70.    The railways in Mexico have an important role to play in the country's
economic recovery. The railways carry between 30% and 50% of all grains, and
are principal transporters of iron ore, coke, coal, sugar, fertilizers, cement
and many steel products. Because of earlier cutbacks in investments, the rail-
way subsector has to focus on rehabilitation and maintenance of tracks; the



- 21 -
rehabilitation and replacement of locomotives and rolling stock; and the acqui-
sition of wtgons and passenger coaches, to meet reviving demand for railway
traffic and to improve service levels. The project would help relieve these
bottlenecks, and, at the same time, would help improve N de M's efficiency of
operations and financial performance.
71.    Economic rates of return have been calculated for N de M's investment
program covering track rehabilitation works, the acquisition of signalling
equipment, and the acquisition and rehabilitation of locomotives, wagons and
passenger coaches. The items evaluated account for about 87% of its 1985
investment budget, with rates of return ranging from 18% to 74%. SCT's infra-
structure works would focus on ongoing as well as pew investments, with rates
of return varying between 162 and 56%, thus confirming the feasibility of most
investments. The agreed minimum economic rate of return of 12% (para. 58) for
all subprojects in the N de M and SCT investment programs in 1985-1988, would
provide an adequate screening criterion to avoid uneconomic investments. Quan-
tified economic benefits of rail investments take into account savings in rail
operating costs as track conditions are improved and train delays are reduced,
and savings from avoiding diversion of traffic to more costly road transport.
Risks
72.    The proposed sector loan has been prepared on the basis of experience
under the previous four Bank-financed railway projects, taking into account the
mediumrterm prospects of Mexico's economy in 1985'1988.  But, the proposed
project faces three risks. First, projected traffic may not materialize, as
was the case under previous projects-and as is experienced in railway projects
all over the world. A 5.1% annual traffic growth rate was used to determine
investment requirements, which is well below the rates of 7% to 8% used in pre-
vious projects; also, if traffic growth were to decline, revised traffic
figures could be introduced through the annual updating of the four-year
investment plans. N de M's financial projections have been based, at the out-
set, on even lower traffic estimates extrapolated from historical data.
Second, the Government's budgetary allocations may be further restricted during
project implementation. The sector loan format would provide for flexibility
in reassigning investment priorities, and the agreed levels of minimum budget-
ary outlays for spare parts and track maintenance, would further minimize the
adverse impact of general budget cuts. Therefore, sufficient safeguards have
been built into the project's design to deal with both risks.
73.   A third uncertainty facing the project is whether the Government will be
able to continue acting on its policy of reducing subsidies and raising prices
to reflect the cost of services, if political pressures opposing such measures
were to mount. There is no effective way to reduce this uncertainty. But, it
should be noted that the current administrations of both the Government and
N de M have clearly stated their policy objectives on pricing and subsidy out-
lays, which are consistent with those pursued under.the project. Actions over
fuel pricing and railway tariffs taken since 1982 confirm a serious commitment
to the stated policies.



- 22 -
PART V - LECAL INSTRUNENTS AND AMMHORITY
74.       The Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, the Guarantee
Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, the Project Agreement
between the Bank and N de M, and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of loan effective-
ness would be evidence that:  Ca) contractual arrangements between BANOBRAS,
the Government, and N de M for the transfer of loan funds have been executed
(para. 63); and (b) the Government and N de M have taken appropriate action to
reclaspify the tariff of some of the commodities that currently do not cover
long-term variable cost (para. 42). Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section 3 of Annex III.
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECONHENDAnIONS
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 20, 1985



- 23 -
ANNEX I
T A l LRI 3*                              Page 1 of 5
SEL- CIA  DICATORS DAA SNUT
MEXICO                             EDENCE SOUPS (MEICunc   Cwum    AEArC) =g
C8T                    (mu  &mS ETMA) Al
iuuutk  i7oLk. RCUT           NIMOLX lEoNE          -XDL INCUNS
196of-b    i97oLb SIminAiL        IAT. AN:M   & CAR           BBROPE
aU C         ssAi  to- U)
TOTAL                             1972.1     1972.5   1972.5
ASRICWLTEAL                        953.2      976.4    979.5
Wf CAPuTA (133)                      360.0      730.0   2270.0            2106.6                   2345.3
(CILDCBAIS OF UL EQUVALENS)        539.0      773.0   1340.0             995.3                  1122.6
PUHOATE -M VETAL STATISTICS
POPILATION.HXD-TAR (HDOIISAIIDB)    37073.0    51176.0  73122.0
11A  POUlATON (l OF TOTAL)         50.3        59.0     65.0              66.5                    46.8
POPULATION nwscncu
POMIIATIfh IN TAR 2000 (HILL)                        109.4
SATIOUART POILATION (KELL)                           198.5
POPULATION lOCUSt                                      1.9
POUIIATlO  DEITST
PEE SQ. In.                       18.3       Z5.9     36.1             35.7                     82.9
m  Sq. M1. AGI. LAND              37.7       52.4     72.8             92.4                    158.9
OULTION ACE STRUTU  (I)
0-14 TS                          45.6       46.5    *4.3               39.9                    31.6
15-64 US                          51.0       50.0     52.2              56.0                    61.1
65 AM AIM:                         3.4        3.5      3.4              4.1                      7.1
POPULATIN  RTI RATE CZ)
TaOTL                              3.0        3.2      3.0               2.4                     1.6
UII                               4.0        4.7       4.2              3.6                     3.7
CRUDm  UIRT RATE (Pu0 TOM)          45-4       43.4     33.9              31.3                    23.4
CRUm  DEATH RATE (PuI ZWUS)         12.2        9.7      7.1              8.1                     6.8
055 REPESUCTIO  RATE                 3.3        3.2      2.2              2.0                      1.6
.                  F^~~~~~tyAlLY PFVIC
AmPrS. ANNUAL (THSOS)               ..       25.1   1145.0 IC
USES C OF HARRI       )            ..         ..      39.07;           40.3
IxN  or FODh PROD. pa coir
(196-71-100)                        97.3     100.0    104.0              114.3                   114.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY or
CALORms C OF RUEQIRUS)           117.0      112.0    121.0             110.6                   125.6
PEOD   (MANS PER DkT)            69.0       66.0      74.0             67.3                    39.7
OF OIt AC IAL ADA POLSE         29.1       27.0    23.0 id            34.1                   3V5
CIILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH HATE         LC.3        6.5      4.0              5.7                     5.2
LIFE EXPECT. AT Dutm (CAS)          57.0       61.3     65.4             64.7                     67.4
IIFANT HETI. RAZE (CEE T )         91.1       73.6      52.9             60.6                    54.2
ACCESS TO SFE WATER (ZIOl)
TOTAL                             23.5       9.0 la  58.0 le           65.4
UA                                          f ..  6Y.5 JT    61.4 W.   78.1
RtU                                ..       2l. 7W   5i.0 W            46.2
ACCESS TO EfCETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF PPUATIUN)
TOTAL                               ..       37.0 J   38.0 Ia           52.9
F                            s                                ..      o60.o W    50.1 7;          67.0
RURAI                             4_ *.07    13.0 77                   24.5
POPUXATlON PEE PFHSCA             1830.0     1510.0      ..            1917.7                   1065.8
Fo. PER   RStSLw PERS             3650.0     1390.0      ..             615.8                    764.4
POP. FP HOSPTAL BED
0                         TarOT                            590.0      970.0       ..             367.2                   326.3
1M1                              570.0 If  1170.0       ..            411.5                    201.5
RURAL                              ..      1370.0       ..            2636.3
AS105115 pM  aosnra. IE              ..         ..        ..             27.3                    20.0
AVERAZ SIZE OF HOIStO
TOTAL                              5.4        5.7
grim                              5.7        5.7
Rua                               5.2        5.8
AVERAGE HO. OF PESOSIROQ
TOTAL                             2.9        2.5
-luSH                              2.6        2.2
mAL                               3.4        3.2
ACCeSS TO  CT. ( O ULICS)
TOTAL                               ..       56.9
S~IAU                              ..       $0.7
:MERlilAL                           ..      D27.6



-24 -                                                   ANNEX I
TA     _L  3A                                   Page  2  of 5
NIECo                  - mOCiAL ZINDCATXDASAIqt
nuXIco                                                 WEWIGHCTED n  AVhRAfU) 
NDIT                     (303  new  ESTIMATE) /b
m,o~k.  z,7e  31015'?  MIDDOL IMa        ggIDOg mcIa
naaao              zul XmwuzAtkL    LAS-. AIICA & CAIl           Rtans
AJi'STfl ISODIT  ATIOU
FaMnt    ToTA                       o0.0       104.0    121.0              105.4                     101.1
SALZ                     * 2.0      106.0    122.0               106-3                    10-5
XFALK                    77.0       102.0    120.0               104.5                     96.7
sIcOMMAY TOTAL                      11.0       22.0      51.0               43.2                     59.1
NALZ                     14.0        26.0      54.0              42.3                      08.9
FINAL                     6.0        17.0      49.0              44.5                      50.6
VOC#zISa L (1of 81  MM% )             23.6       26.7      11.6               33.0                      21.6
IIPIL-TKAOUR. UT0IO
raeLY W-                            44.0        46.0     37.0               30.1              _       23.1
UsoNDuAT                           13.0        14.0     13.0               16.8                     20.5
ADULT LrTUUCT RATZ 'S)                65.4       74.2      12.7               79.5                      75.6
PASSU3 CU CARSIIOUSASD POP            12.9       24.1      61.3               46.0                     54.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TROUSAND POP          89.0      273.7    295.4               225.6                    164.9
TV ECEIVISTHOUSD PoP                  17.5        58.3    106.1              107.2                     123.8
ISPAPhR ("DAILY USUAL
znIazsr) cICUnIaT
PER THOUSAND POPUIATIOr             73.3         ..      04.5a              63.5                     96.3
CXRA  ANNUAL ATrENDANCEICAPITA         9.6        4.9       4.4  c             2.8                      2.9
TOTAL ABOR FORCE (11OUS)           11191.0    14722.0  21398.0
FALEZ (PERCENT)                     15.2       17.4      20.0               23.2                     34.3
AGRICULTURE (PERCZNT)               55.1        45.2     33.6               31.5                     40.7
IlISTRY (PERCENT)                   19.5       22.9      25.6               23.9                     23.3
PA;UIICIPATIOf RATE CPFIUNTR                                                                                                    -
TOIC                                30.2        28.8     29.3               32.2                     42.9
MALE                                51.1       47.4      46.7               49.3                      54.7
FEtALE                               9.2        10.1     11.7               15.2                     31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.7      1.6                1.4                      0.9
7am DISmnm
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECIED BY
HICUIEST 5S OF OSEEOIDS               .
HIGHEST 20 O0  HOBUSEOLDS           e1.1 /h    60.7      57.7 /d
L.03ST 202 OF ROUSEROLDS             3.4        3.3       2.9 7.
LOWEST 401 OF ROUSERLDS              9.8 A      9.9       9.9 7..
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INHCO
LEVEL (USS PER CAIiTA)
UBA                                   ..          ..       .               288.2
RURAL                                 ..         ..                        15. l 14.0
ESTDI4D RELIAIVE POVERTY INCOME
LFVEL (USS PER CAPI)
UR                                    ..          ..    471.0 Ic           522.8
RDURA                                 ..         ..    471.0 717           372.4
STIMATED POP. BELCU ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INcOzM LEVEL (C)
ua                                    ....                 ....
RURAL                                 ..
NOT AVALABLE
NOT APPLICABLE                                                                                                                  a
N O T E S
/I  The group averag  for sea indicator are populatLow-walghted arithmetic mans. Coverage of countriea mng the
indLcators depende o availability of data and Is not uniform.
/b  Unleos otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960' refer to any yer betwee  L959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data far 'Mout beant Etlate"' between 1980 and 1982.
/e  1979; /d 1977; /t Srvd from wter eupply and usage; /f 1962; It 1976; /h 1963.
JUNE, 1984



-25-
ANNEX I
~336141 ...min -Page 3 of 5
goodood   OltaSS0 36 4163 3- d3-  633 Sdooo    1.-333 5.4110i 363 SSS -3 MM-6354333  3.3130ta. t3 SASSSI .3.. 3...  3631 t     637 3- SI,  id. Sa.33.33aSSdiL
'.W.3336.  .a..s  36  334 31         3n433. 433W t3    -33.3. -1 t, 43333-_                33a 33 a1L3.t3.  SAS,S    . 13.. 4-3-. --oftd3..   -C.L .4
d..616did   do31.  s.im.lto. Iodlol53- IS3 . ad  031.t.343  a334t3 SS3.1 Alf6.a..                 .1...fll
13.. .611a. ja.   -   63) *3 -           6VF41 33.    a~ ..3.3    -W ad (31 -  -Wgg-e?           t       S 33-3  ad  33 - 33      '-  -3   -Ldy dlSS .e6t
R.haB   53   6.333w  -. 63* -03 S. .03~j.3   3.*643                     3-33. 313 ad -A65 3"-            SS 33  .  ,  ~.   3-u-  33"M .   diS..53...t
3..., %  441. `- good 136I333. u-  a.  3.0 .6   - 3.4               *3 0  1364.131doo  d4.v    -  .13 .33113W1333. 4.13d 434 39.33.  43 3-5333S -.1
3.3613.3   33303.153  ..-.36  .6 3-   &Sd433.133  -.g3.,. 13.5. .*1333  333 SSSI -M6.3 3.a.36  3 .             .6  -  3.4.oftl 6d.~ 3t 3  -33   '%.~ 35.d  -A
lo--Z I  "_-a  -463.3                                                                                                 .IS3.    S33M4-33   a    ~4.3 " .t 9   ad
q.93-36tAIfl~?- ...       -4j,..   g"I'm3.  IkSS1.3`3 -   p34333~.                  .3.d13.34  3.p03-   looopid 33t   -  ...t.33  w-pIta  ad.f
S*.". .M.  " it"46 3(3-4*3.3.3                                                  -3t343.3' p34633.& 3         St-3134..333333331  3.3.p.13  3336l
-  -3 ad 3.63.43. 633.  b.p13    -6. SaI.d h.43* ad
n mEM!"  at1T                     3 ad-dt 43333-  .. _635..33433                                    I3    - 3         r393 '..t h. 33643   O3".613. CD" (31.33    a43..
3333*3.    1~. 3-3-I   -1 *V3* .h.3.313..5 1. -L-.) hS.1f_.. t........t                                                     a
A--%-3..I .3c41t.33y) 3. kg.s    .66  .q3..41 W         p.."U .e3ti393.                         IM.43*5.13- .auSr 3314. 691,3133..
-   I   -    ~~~~~a  99~~~~~3.                               - ~~~~  ~~       .34 36 a 333.k 3.3.1n4a3. a  3..e. 3333    33p~-1    I   . w m     d m-  mm H    m
4366334  d0363343. .. w-3..    ..""                    Ut,   d_36                     ad 363  a. 3-L.. . b-W- -  Sa..av433w.*  t-..3                     1.
-   3333t lad. ti@. at1 33Sood  443Um.                                  .   a  3 .-ti 63. 33133333              -113."-
*33-   -CUL p3- 3 m-. ~.. -J  sm-                                                        -161  1-.            .    33-
ld-SSISS :..=! Ie.   "m  L-lboll  M  p-                                     C_~~~~~.3  46 4-1. 331  -369t.    4663-I
9--    . pwSdSmSS   -~   3-ut 3-3  331.33  t- 3033153                         W q31,3. 333 -.33.p   3-1  34  3-31[133  36.3
433.4 3_-1.313  3433-.33 6.    355133563   4 3333-36.633
3.333.      46_          . 11333336 .13  34633- 4 313      33C31463  3I.35166.34   63ll. -36333-  .  3
3..13   "'3 "3.d "  "3t        "'-          "'   -          da..33313 3311                        d-          f.4 -g-  -L633-  33.3  at.  34te
d-333     .IS,     IvW Sm33-3344   64613- 3.33  Ca                                   63933 .d--    5333.33   33.. 113."  13.3-L 3 Smp                33
33333.313 at   ..31 . Sd, 5,, 4 ..31  Sl.., _33.1433  1..*I     ae.3-4.3.6346 I.I-.S                                        .6.33-6  033336-
- 333. 1303-&y 31- l... J-1  c43   -533-                            33313   31-1. 3- L3-3. -    -333  SF41313  333t-33ea
'.a     S 33  6S t133-a313...  6.31131   3-6. .304    13.3 Sidi               '"i. .33.1, 4632 S. 3T 933-. or         ...3...ad W-         43
3.  3..6.4.                                                                   Swag33333.3  h   03643-1    6.331.3.11. 4-.S
3-   6 NW. ..Ion4  3 t           I.SoSe ML      ....633                      3 13..  ..3-169r.3. 4334                   I.  3.1.tleS. 331.1S.3
S-Ld. 4331.  313 gums)3. .ea3  -  ..-" d              ..3 613 .31 3-muS 15033.Sd-M                          .331363_341   333.3
0314  14634313..            65m    1 .72                                           lt333.3. 133 I       -- 6.333  34.3a.. - MI.   3.3.  3.3.1
1,6333 .33             ,                                                         .fl;h, -i-d                     -d3733314336   I- 3-.1  .313333
3.1 3.  . -3.4333  6333~33 31 I-u1  t33a33  134                               4431l34l         I     1-3~
3334  4331346.393.33343464                                                         33  33331311 =3463' 133333-1134-3633S..43143ad33.
PWS33.L63. 36.353. p.MES 114-1    5340.  33311331313                                   9.33333  3.1. 4'-Sd 3..9334 6-Ld 3TV33333 a
33k, 5343 S 3 3         -~   A3r3  6-3  SSSS. m*3.3.34.339                   S. _ 0 1   -   _E_                        _    -3-Q  
"3.33.)  ad 3311.4 335g..4  a   43.13  3 .31513 .6 34-.ae   P3-a.. (3.d-.d 13t-&33313   3.41-SM 13-   it64 .1WS3
63313633  390.397. 3  33543L                                                    h. '"Sr U3  33-3433  ..3     333333            34333.3-333 
4333  1..  3. 3334361934-. 03191343.                         333. 3..5.3. 331 33..46p.3.36333  -44  t. 9-01   t3. .13.   61.3
63    33tkIgi  34.a              m  3.                                                               ft1.46 o3.  13..33.g.-
t-1 -1            313   5.4   53333                 363  -31 vp                 1....333  ad 3. 3-I33           S S33343.13  ti1. a".a -0 Idea1-
33-.       bLw-                                131  g.-  -                               two13  43.3143.3333   3-463-4.53   13
1.33. 53-..   ... 1..... -63 -1s-3  5       -L~.- 3333.4.6. 33434                -3313.9f 33.I,Sfi
-       .6.1               _.1-3-3S. 3-  a  43.   .3.333 .5 .  3-                                                  .
lk-Look  _A".Ift  -S3.3t31                                                                                  4  . 3f.  333313
' .' ,Sk ~ ~ ~~p63,l333  .3  43-                          S-63133  33  3133- 153343-13-,
-393..*33 M                                                                             W3-. 1.1.40. 393 3!36434
.11-    GP 0     M C34  P--- 6391.463 - 30 .3.3  3.13MI.                      5.63135.Va.33   45.3.151-633    0.133
de.43  3   V--  do 5a  -.W1 - t   0. 3-1.U. P-P-1 .3133M  3334 1.4.                   "33-U  33 .3-3.33"3 M   333-3333-.33.3                     631
3.3.3 d 4 31-33 o-ar  mo-53 .   Solid -343343. 413 3             34-4346311-                   7 -3-33-_ 33.-.3.333    ..113  616_33.3
53 333-Seal  3- 3.03    3.3 J- -313  393.49 3933 03 ri4P65                    03 3S463 436..ME                                                m-;
-                                                                          60613113463.'3' -M V   .3. 331.33  P-3.3  .. at ..-3 --    ~  h313 .31
43. -3.3)1 348  a55.033  331a   .3163.                                            94  93 ad- .1,1-d.11  3(M444  S   -5     33  MW. 333.433   33
S 3  0          S114.   m33.3 - .4333-33    .9-.                      6.3333           6..-L3 13
3333 d 4313'53S 17 13lt.35     ."tw. 333dno 913333333  3931..31                                            3.1.541-.3    3.3 434 3.1, ad333
36  36343..1  13.3.  97033I 33..W                                        15.46011133d3
I- 3343a.4.1I- 6 6                          - 346 41*33 -'_3.903  29131   3133039-  d.36303333
L. 6341.    33  -3415 -.0-, 333334              4.33--                    3-3343.~W   -  HLm*
SIS&-     ~-    ~ t-jo-&  .~              --                                                                           1 363433331   a.a3   ea6333.3 
Mi-Sollood, r ".W  _'335431331403                                           3-343t03
463349314 33.4 331313d 3-3.73-5                                                                                                   .1.5 0  33-
633463-4)*33344 (M       ..3)-5.    a1..3    3.43.431.34313.3.337333  .... 47 3 31.-lp1-ad33. 
3- g3p  l p3.33113    .tI     I1-f   43..- 433133                              SI33033333                   3343331394433-339
353333 4333SSM43363- 63  15.301   3460= 1319o, 0393  43..-.5                                   1.3             -    .-3..   34..4.* 
P" pgo ~   ~       ~      333  11.*4331  . 333                 331163   63          a



- 26 -
IDllTIb _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s111  1 1 1
m        ["      ON    m                 M     li     am    le    a      M-  0114     Tl-n  m"-U                P"        m      INS       [ML
TI  -_1 _t   -   m1ma                                                                         m 
onnnsums                   ammm mm                                              si   .maa                                                               ni
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                       fn Ll11 1n  3nl  01.2 1sl  uL    V1 m                 .      CMw *            LO    LO           imn  1:.X: 11cr:
_L   W    K0mw                                Vn                 T      W 1 fu  -I  urn    m2    m.111 m        t4-n  tg         rn    4.1.1 .. .t;n 13                tn    m.1
to                                    ami  Ulm   iu.n   31.s4         1    iiu     u.s   349.2L  513.11                   LU    LUi   LU              IL"   1W.A    "LO TL"
ZWU  13551K?W                         -t.t3?   L4.3  LU       1.6   -LU    -4.6   4.6    -.U   3L0                LE 11  -1,.    021                   .9.11,   6.3   -LU2  1-:
1 1 1    O.T                              1  1 39.1 1 143  3  3.    1  3   t3 tL t  ILt3   T1 .1 1   32,34       L  U     L U1  t o     17            L a    It ."   f  U    tl    e
IN?  Io.  I                            9436  -LI*  mD        3. 161    ILu    13.11    43   a.     unL                   H.UI4    IML -1.3 512           .     44      .2*    2.311
IrUis IlIC. VII                        4.9P   WI.4   mm    Lit   3.24   3tX    US   345  ".it Lr    ILK.    1."    L.3                                 r.3 It         32,5   11.0
-       Mi                            .4.    -LIT -1.2   -LI    w*.jz it            L      IID    14                -       .      .      .            -.69f  -1.5   TD3      9.11
Tl_ to.  a                            urn     m. in.'   aLi          Jii   am.   s.1    6*    11.                  Lu    it      t       .a C         a:5 ti1    321   2n.3   32,
31411P                               "  n     4   M.L14   4L2 anO aLI    X3    Ia                          n     :n  L        -3.1   IbAZ           2.11  74 11   P.    31.
KISS10    l Ot                        -LW   4-L.      .3.  -L"   -tU.3  -IL%   -t11 -ttJS   -LU                  11.14  IL"    19.     3.            .12    -2..-  .5.91   -L.5*
_  *1. _o_S                           32,3    345   3.*    W11   1.31  3.73   3.3   MAT   3. 41                   a4 .     .3   -46   t3.9            ILI;   33161   I4 1" I.9"
_     |IMm                            31.14   IL2     I3.   1*1   21. 1.       3   17.    11.?   36                LU     .U    L3    3 LX1           11.39   L.25   u.s    .4;
sD s  su s na                                          .s 2. 1: . .11  IL:   1.3  13.1   39A.   ML:               LO    LO    L.3    LO               Is    V2:9   v.w    9.m
KsICm                                 suef  74.0   UM.   tU.13  19.5.       MU3   10         .3mii: a   PkP       LII   L"9    Ls    111              taN   54.24   22.1   EX5
3331 3MS M A      -FlO   KMI                     Wi .IIem  Mo 4.1
ml                                    Sn    Ii       m     m:    mi         s    n        uzi   tit
prom. mm    wU                                "H    3219  13141    31        am      m      Mi      sm
casita  -                              sit   1u       :rn    nn       S;    am      urn    ma 
e       IE SW .n                      M=    313   Ti         MI    US    all    'M    am   if
[1MM.  19.111.L                          311?    am  2        352  3M7    Zul   .32    3cl    =
P9ItIPI9IEItI                           =      ml.D 139*   IS       4m2    Im    mm    lUiDU  2_
_msoa  a'                              III?   nZ Uc fU'   21U  S:                   am *722       an
ma1  M111im                            tO 14                          21     NI?            1
u_=_rn twin m  z *. vamas.n
tWI  1Il3  *1                         e      1:4.2   flU   itS   tIo. 19.4   4L9   ULM   364*
113  '11-i  35K5                      r.32   etc   mILK   I".3   91.6   EL?   r-           ILL   35.29
1r151 P US                            ltM    0.73  143.31124    12          11.    346   P.r   99.
3WE Imu* 5w3s "L" faa                                          2 ma3   ILWc aLu  IL
c(oaw  MU *p.WS'.                     32-91   12.9   5.      36.1?   57.1*  93.39   ULM73
_iM    Pai mow s m   ,. ets a up,
VA?    ilIf                            CHi   IMe    La?   14?   5L0    5.10    LI1,
a.  WINSI                              14.44   19.1       9v,
..,.
IoPm                                    n O    2nir                                                                                          TWA 151.
om winosI   UMaL 1121. 
-g                                         It.1         31  aS         2-
wmp? me mwIllImS                              4.. W   2,41   =    VL Ji.
fl15161151                                 -X 3. t_ taos            -na ui.r                                                           14.
=UK   I    .C          . 2U9   13.3I   11D9 AL.                                                                                      u4C
toldo NWa  utmLwrN           _.                      14.9?  0.6   262.6                                                                 7.C
ML. 11011?7. aUs KII                     .    IL    1I3.3   293.   399.                                                                cc0
up                                       .     .23   1.1      L      L-                                 -1
1t 1:                                    .    43.42  139A27  2941  '9L.4                                                               lTW
W56151                                   .    5.   a1444  ar-a  gmu':                                                                  539
m                       *. a61h  211.J   nLzl                                                                                           h .1 
ELI                    _                      _33.9   34.0  in.3&   Ut.2?                                                               7.5
Di                     _n.  241.3 l . K    =                        s 32137
_fsl       .    t28    i11    .e;    8.2                                                                  ,,~~~~~m   ur to
L m                                       matS                        sIW ImA                    a mm mm ltn u an me.a             a' a*
1973    mm     5973   1131                iSbN~~~~~~~~10611         191    Ito                           197    lIE
5255                                   4.2    4.311                 31r    ma21                                          La    LU                             5    3.14
l35op                                  2,12    4.57                 521M   B 3.6                   LI?O 12.                   617at                          121.1  fitS
1111"93;                               LII   L.3                    "9.1%  0T.                     4.31                  94"     L   101.la                          114.91
am                                    92.0   ILm                   muu  "Lo                        Lo                    2,19   9.91                         tamO   flu
I,~~ ~ ~  ~ -w                               US .3,
Il 9973 iS SKI toILS! ma, U, mill 3.135935
31 to? 191   NWOf m      AE     A nU i   CM=.3    Or Sit  ML  OM   193
FM ~      ~         ~        n L ssL #NMl> AK scum     wi*S  UILM au m
- abUtn K  37s43n
mo     law.   uio iL2 SM 5orW  0 7 1                                                                                                                           s. . "M
mam a, a1



- 27 -
m   u  m         _ums s  mm 111MIS                                                    R
WW lis um.7  Muvim   m  W
43miam   ~     ~     ~              _31           _      ."                     mm     Iv       a
191     391     1933 me  3      1947    3W e     3      395   393
1 13I  Ws  nm2m  U P4
~~~~~~~~~3    *if.ll   -33   -14W                              211    2u    34            7    44n
WI WIN NM                                 -9    149    -41111  -.542  -1eM        4       -93  -IlM    I3S
2 3 PME39 311                              112  -32   -14          2  -334   -93  -311   -333    -3m
Dowm           PlIa                      -3N4    -en    -7ns   -in"    -4           6     3        -4m   -31
PRIU11 K1m1 IMUE11T"                       33      34    3up      335      76      37      no       14     ai
Flil mm  Am Lw 1m  Mr, on                  Al      Al    43  u      3     us       333    me       im      133
53331                                    4l73    4432    UN   133       I2       31124    7n     9n     21411
E9W1                                     347    448    4m       3m       3n1    P91      4133    74 m:s
iv  Kit                                     -       -     -i3    -I1       22      13     Lin      32      -4
atEp 9331L                                 1f     42      2134    23    -7W        42   -11       -33     -ant
DUE Dm            q-.31W                  _-      -1II   -42        IN    44    -43    21           so    -11E9
8  3ll.t315                                 4a      -       n4      X        -
WIt 9 134 LOON    3TVNS
#3kK 3. AM  LT. LOS
re                                      I.1i   AL     (ALS  ln.0   MI."   746.3
393                                     344.9  36.3   37.  3321.5   139.3  614.314
Tm                                       IV."   21 3 l l 123.  n.m      2I3L42   4297.3
smUEts                                   1L.e  111.1    3.3   239.59  27.26   331.70
WI 31 FI_C33L4  2 1T#IIW               23S.44i 33r24  4174.1e 7134311 6429.33 519.36
utm  vr mv3l
3      31319 33F t   9 I MR             216.3  13U,74 W?3 432e."   4.  6h731                                                                        5336ns as_
1322515a9351    NM                      24.44  33L70 233.7130.  33.53  4n93.33                                                                                
PI S a    s3       ffyS    I E          4114   11.1  445.1  13T191.  3         2.X4 3                               :1. i1e
WAD   ES  UlllllltS IF                                                                                                      nC  V I LT.
a   m   KP MWI  ID                   LX                                                                                   3          LIS =.3 L"              L
_                                   336lS DF LK  B   O E  '  me  4.3X
[.  iW6IT O51 F RIM 3       S           7.LI    3L.2   11.40   14.31  134.3    "3.                                           No6 ll61                           342   36.3
6. no       iww       3169V3a L         -       MD9   9.96    3.13      .  6. 44 L
rvEm                                                                                                                    TBUL                               tT u.u1
11 131I.L 1 113.6S1F                     16.2   9M      4.2    1.74    5.33    4.3
RJLIC LL D. LS
6. 3I_3  3 15 S13*                      7LU     7.14    3.3    L33      La 3     .1
,, MT   091    _ T93      ml 9 U33    a 71 3L
WAEhP   IF 10a, . DlF4   MP    WMEm
no  .I            3i
-~ ~ ~~..n    1L5    #f    6   33   31911.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan                                                            Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year     Borrower                Purpose             Cancellations   bursed
58 loans fully disbursed                  3,495.2
1553-5    1978     NAFINSA                 Agriculture              56.0         0.5
1643-5    1979     NAFINSA                 Small-scale Agri.        60.0         3.3
1706-5    1979     NAPINSA                 Irrigation               92.0        46.7
1712-5    1980     NAFINSA                 Industry                175.0        31.8
1820-5    1980     NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Mining          40.0         18.9
1858-5    1980     NAFINSA                 Irrigation              160.0       147.9
1881-5    1981     NAFINSA                 Small and Medium
Scale Industry       100.0          1.5
1908      1981     NAFINSA                 Irrigation               23.0         4.6
1913      1981     BANOBRAS                Water Supply            125.0        72.7
1929      1981     BANOBRAS                Railways                150.0        48.3
1945      1981     NAFINSA                 Rainfed Agriculture    264.6        104.3
1964      1981     BANPESCA                Port Development         10.0         6.5
1990      1981     BANOBRAS                Urban Development II   164.0        119.6
2042      1982     NAFINSA                 Technical Training       90.0         6.%
2043      1982     NAFINSA                 Integrated Rural
Development          175.0        111.9
2100      1982     NAFINSA                 Irrigation. Rehab II    65.0         61.7
2142      1982     NAFINSA                 Capital Goods
Industry             152.3        117.4
2154      1982     NAFINSA                 -Pollution Control       60.0        49.4
2191      1983     NAFINSA                 San Fernando Agri.       48.4        41.8
2194      1983     BANOBRAS                Urban Engineering         9.2         6.3
2262      1983     NAFINSA                 Agri. Marketing         115.0        92.8
2231      1983     BANOBRAS                Third Water Supply      100.3        88.0
2325      1983     NAFINSA                 Third Small Medium
Industry        -    175.0        134.2
2331      1983     BANCOMEXT               Export Development      350.0       294.5
2428      1984     BANOBRAS                Highways                200.0       164.4
2450      1984     BANPESCA                Ports                    76.3        76.1
2454      1984     NAFINSA                 Agricultural Credit    300.0         97.6
TOTAL                                         6,831.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank           1,365.7
Total now outstanding                          5,465.6
Amount sold                  92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                   0.0
Total now held by Bank 2/                      5,465.6
Total undisbursed                                           1,948.9
1I/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of Z
B. Statme.nt of IlC Inveutments (as of March 31, 1985)
Flical                                                                     USO Million
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business          Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Pnrfect
Circle, S.A. /1               Industrial Equipment          0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul            0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1            Twist Drills                  0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.Aa- Steel                           2.3   21.4   23.7.
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                       Steel                         0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quisica del Rey, S.A. /1        Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hlerro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment          -       2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, /1       Iron Ore Mining                1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A./1       Textiles                      12.0    -     12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp Pnd Paper                   /2     /2      /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.          Cement                       15.9      =    15.9
1974/61  Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                        12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper        _      10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.k.  Petrochemicals                 19.0    -       9.&
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3       Cement                      168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                         -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistcl, S.A. /3  Particleboard                  25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                       Flat Glass                  114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Rea  de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3               Mining                      110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                 59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                     Agri-Business                 11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     ietalsa, S.A.                   Motor Vehicles
and Accessories  '         3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility          Industrial Equipment        100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                       Cotton Seed Flour             2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                    16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                     705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                   540.4   22.1  562.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                           164.2   26.1  190.3
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                  150.9    6.5  157.4
.~~~~~~~~ -
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, teiminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
h-   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO: RAILWAYS SECTOR LOAN
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Eve-1ts
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:                  18 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                            SCT and N de H
(c)  First Presentation to the Rank:                 February 1983
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                 October 1984
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                     May 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                  September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Ca)  N de M to increase operating revenues so as to cover, by January 1,
1988, long-term variatle cost of the transport of each commodity and
of passenger services (paras. 42 and 50);
(b) N de M to achieve in 1985-1988 working ratios of 78%, 77%, 75% and
73%, and operating ratios of 105%, 103%, 100% and 97%, and a debt
service coverage of 107% by 1988 (para. 43);
(c) The Government to compensate N de H, in a timely manner, for the
losses incurred by N de M in its passenger services operations
(para. 50);-
(d) N de M and SCT to furnish to the Bank their four-year investment
programs not later than November 30, 1985, and every year thereafter
(para. 58), and to carry out the project in accordance with the
targets of an agreed Plan of Action (para. 67); and
(e)  Any investment subproject included in N de M's and SCT's investment
programs to have a minimum economic rate of return of 12% (para.
58).



GI,, . , , , ,   U.  S  A,
go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
. @\<                                                          1                                                        401~~~~~~~~-4
RAILROADS
S.C.T INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       0   go   m    ^Uss r   .(   
._;_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gl -9 unae   _,t .Slf OF    MfAx/ CO
-*,b;6   COUIJsL S   L,INEwS-<'; gc 
G.NA#IS K.  CO                                                                                            7.oA
P.,,,,-&&  C         7  w    .. ..PJW   . *
*gum"  AL PAWO  L-  -    7.   U  VP I7~
1=.- ~~SOW
- AIRPORTS                                                                                                         IANC*  I I
PIMWJUA EIZ1'I



