Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24184-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 85.5 MILLION (US$108 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June19, 2002
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 31, 2002)
Currency Unit = India Rupee
1 Rupee = US$0.02
US$1 = INR 49.20
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 -- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACF          Assistant Conservator of Forests
AG           Accountant General
APCCF        Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
APFD         Andhra Pradesh Forest Department
APFDC        Andhra Pradesh Forest Development Corporation
APFP         Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project
BC           Backward Class
CAG          Comptroller and Auditor General of India
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBFM         Community Based Forest Management
CBO          Community Based Organization
CCF          Chief Conservator of Forests
CFM          Community Forest Management
CO           Community Organizer
DCF          Deputy Conservator of Forests
DFC          District Forest Committee
DFO          Divisional Forest Officer
DO           Development Objective
PMU          Project Monitoring Unit
DPIP         District Poverty Initiative Project
EA           'Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FMIS         Forest Management Information System
FP           Forest Production model
FRR          Financial Rate of Return
GB           General Body
GCC          Girijan Cooperatives Corporation
GEA          Group-based Economic Activities
GIS          Geographic Information System
GO           Government Order
GOAP         Government of Andhra Pradesh
GOI          Government of India
HRD          Human Resource Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding



ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IGA          Income Generation Activities
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
ITDA         Integrated Tribal Development Agency
JFM          Joint Forest Management
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MAI          Mean Annual Increment
MC           Managing Committee
MFP          Minor Forest Produce
MIS          Management Information System
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NEDCAP       Non-conventional Energy Development Corporation of AP
NGO          Non-Govermmental Organization
NIRD         National Institute of Rural Development
NTFP         Non-Timber Forest Product
OD           Operational Directive
OP           Operational Policy
PA           Protected Area
PCCF         Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
PESA         Panchayat Raj (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act 1996
PMP          Pest Management Plan
PMU          Project Monitoring Unit
PRI          Panchayat Raj Institutions
R&R          Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RAP          Resettlement Action Plan
RDF          Rehabilitation of Degraded Forest
RO           Range Officers
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SC           Scheduled Caste
SEA          Social and Environmental Assessment
SF           Social Forestry
ST           Scheduled Tribe
TDP          Tribal Development Plan
TM           Treatment Model
VAC          Village Advisory Council
VED          Village Eco-Development
VSS          Vana Samrakshana Samiti
WCV          Woman Community Volunteer
WL           Wildlife
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimuzu
Country Manager/Director:  Edwin R. Limn
Sector Manager/Director:  Constance A. Bernard
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:  Irshad A. Khan






INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      8
3. Benefits and target population                                                     9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          16
2. Financial                                                                          17
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Environmental                                                                      19
6. Social                                                                            21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    25






2. Critical risks                                                                    25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    27
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           27
2. Other                                                                             27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   36
Attachment 1: GOAP Implementation Letter                                       41
Attachment 2: Policy and Institutional Reform Matrix                           44
Attachment 3: Project Monitoring Unit-Organization Chart                       46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        47
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          48
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           77
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 31961






INDIA
ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASRD
Date: June 19,2002                               Team Leader: Irshad A. Khan
Country Manager/Director: Edwin Lim              Sector Director: Constance A. Bernard
Project ID: P073094                              Sector(s): AT - Forestry
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
[1 Loan     [X] Credit    [ ] Grant    C ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): SDR 85.5 million (US$108.00 million equivalent)
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                        Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: Standard                         Service charge: 0.75%
BORROWER                                                     18.77           0.14         18.91
IDA                                                         103.92           4.29        108.21
Total:                                                      122.69           4.43        127.12
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF INDIA
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH, FOREST DEPARTMENT
Address: AP Secretariat, Hyderabad 500 022
Contact Person: Mr. H. S. Brahma, Principal Secretary, Environment, Forest, Science and Technology Department
Tel: 91-40-3451440           Fax: 91-40-3451440            Email:
Address: Forest Department, Aranya Bhawan, Saifabad, Hyderabad - 500 004
Contact Person: Mr. K. Subba Rao, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
Tel: 91-40-3235488           Fax: 91-40-3237889            Email: ksubbarao@hotmail.com
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual      9.91     21.59      28.51     25.89     22.10
Cumulative     9.91     31.50      60.01     85.90     108.00
Project Implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/2002  Expected closing date:  03/31/2008
=~PADS.  P-, V. dN



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to reduce rural poverty through improved forest management with
community participation.
A specific outcome of this objective would be for the poor and primarily tribal forest-dependent
communities to assume full responsibility for the development and maintenance of forest areas formally
placed under their stewardship. As communities assume management responsibility under the system of
Community Forest Management (CFM) supported by this project, they will receive legal entitlement to
incomes generated from both non-timber and timber forest products.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A full list of proposed indicators and the corresponding data collection strategy are found in Annex 1.
Key indicators include:
* Number of functioning forest user groups (Van Samrakshana Samiti or VSS) undertaking
forest management tasks according to microplans and operating according to their covenants
and agreed procedures
* Increase in NTFP incomes (in cash and kind) realized by VSS members resulting from
improved forest productivity
* Decline in seasonal migration for employment
* Re-investment by VSS in forest areas from generated funds
* Micro-plans prepared through participatory planning conforming to revised forest working
plans covering all CFM areas
* Number of VSS members and NGOs workers trained in specified silvicultural topics, financial
accounting, group management and conflict resolution and involved in CFM implementation
* Number of forest department staff trained in specified silvicultural techniques, nursery
practices, communication, extension and participatory approaches
* Legal status accorded to VSS through amendment to theAP Forest Act (1967)
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22541-IN  Date of latest CAS discussion: April 5, 2001
The proposed project fits well with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives and is
consistent with the CAS program priorities and principles. The CAS is built around the Govemment of
India's Ninth Five-Year Plan in which the objective is to 'strengthen the enabling environment for
development and sustainable growth and support critical interventions of special benefit to the poor and
disadvantaged'. To support India in achieving this objective, the strategic principles defined in the CAS are
selectivity, partnership and a programmatic approach.
Andhra Pradesh is one of the reforming states supported by the Bank through a multi-sectoral approach.
Andhra Pradesh and the Bank have developed a strong partnership, anchored on establishing a sustainable
fiscal framework and undertaking key administrative reforms. This partnership was initiated through the
Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Program (APERP) (Ln. 4360/Cr. 3103-IN) approved by the
-2 -



Bank in FY98 and is now being continued under the Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Loan
(APERL), which was approved by the Bank's Board on March 14, 2002.
In addition to the fiscal govemance reforms, the Bank's assistance strategy to Andhra Pradesh focuses on
accelerating rural growth and supporting key pro-poor interventions in line with one of the strategic
priorities of the CAS. Under APERP and under the Andhra Pradesh Irrigation III Project (Ln. 4166/Cr.
2952-lN), the Bank is supporting irrigation development by emphasizing participatory management
involving users. Through the Andhra Pradesh District Poverty Initiatives Project (DPIP) (Credit 3332)
approved in FY2000, the Bank is supporting Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) efforts to widen
beneficiary involvement and strengthen empowerment, by supporting community groups to make choices
about selecting investments to benefit themselves. The Andhra Pradesh CFM fits well into this framework
for pro-poor rural development.
The project contributes to the CAS goal of supporting critical pro-poor interventions that: (i) promote more
efficient delivery mechanisms; (ii) entrench beneficiary participation; and (iii) strengthen the rural safety
net through measures that include the deepening of rural assets. The proposed project is a natural resource
management project such as described in CAS that addresses poverty directly "by increasing access to
resources by groups of poor and landless, while at the same time achieving environmental goals of land
reclamation, forest regeneration and bio-diversity protection". The project follows a successful first
forestry project which was implemented from 1994 to 2000.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
Andhra Pradesh is India's fifth largest state with a population of 66.3 million (7.9% of India's population)
and 8% of country's land area. The forest land occupy 6.38 million hectares covering 23% of state's
geographical area and 9% of the country's forest area.
(a)    Adverse social, economic, and environmental impacts of an increasinglv degraded resource on the
rural poor: Direct dependency of a large rural population on forests combined with increasing pressures on
an already depleted resource base is the central challenge in the sector. Only 2.42 m ha (45% of total forest
land in Andhra Pradesh) constitute dense forests with crown density of more than 40 percent. The
remaining forest land is composed of open forests, scrub and barren lands. Under the Andhra Pradesh
Forestry Project (APFP) 0.85 million ha of forests were brought under Joint Forest Management (JFM) of
which 450,000 ha of open (degraded) forest land was silviculturally treated to restore and improve forest
cover and productivity.
(b)    Inadequate forest protection: Illicit cutting and smuggling of wood, forest fires, encroachments,
shifting cultivation (podu), unregulated and indiscriminate grazing, forest clearance for non- forest uses -
still require the attention of the Forest Department (FD). This would need a well equipped FD to face these
challenges, as well as to protect the bona fide interests of the forest dependent communities. The GOAP
adopted JFM in 1993 as a response to a failure to afford protection to forest resources with traditional
police type protection methods. Through JFM, local rural communities were invited to participate in
management and share in forest products. Whereas JFM areas have improved forest protection and growth,
other forests (outside JFM arrangements) are still vulnerable to damage. To build on initial success the
Government has expanded the JFM program statewide during the last nine years and about 1.5 million ha
of forests (25% of Andhra Pradesh's total forests) is now covered under JFM.
- 3 -



(c)    Inadeguate focus on addressing eguitv and conflict:  Efforts to change from a system of
unsustainable open access to sustainable community based management of forests sometimes lead to intra
and inter-villages conflict within, or between, stakeholder groups. Such conflicts can be mininized (but not
completely eliminated) by careful attention to standards of social inclusion up-front, and local capacity
building in conflict resolution methods. Categories of forest users that deserve special consideration and
targeted mitigation efforts include tribal groups, migrant grazers, female headloaders, and the landless.
(d)    Market distortions creating disincentives for private tree growers and primary non-timber forest
produce gatherers: Policy distortions negatively affect returns to users and producers of forest products by:
(i) placing regulatory restrictions on harvest and transit of forest produce grown on private land; and (ii)
granting monopoly rights to public agencies to harvest and market forest products from state owned forests.
The GOAP has already relaxed many rules and regulations relating to harvesting, transit and marketing of
wood forest produce. However, the procedure for issuing transit permits still remain cumbersome in respect
of a few species and this needs to be simplified. The Andhra Pradesh Scheduled Areas Minor Forest
Produce (Regulation of Trade) Regulation of 1979 created a state monopoly for trade of certain minor
forest produce (MFP) or non-timber forest product (NTFP) under which GOAP appointed the Girijan
Cooperatives Corporation (GCC) as an agent for the purpose of purchase of, and trade in, any MFP on
behalf of the State Govemment. This regulation restricts sale, purchase, curing or processing, collection,
storage and teansport of the MFP covered under the regulation, by any person other than GCC in scheduled
areas. This means processing and value addition by the tribal community is not permitted. This acts as a
disincentive to sustainable and non-destructive harvesting of NTFP and value addition to enable tribal
communities to increase incomes.
(e)    Institutional capacity to implement CFM: The existing capacity of the Andhra Pradesh Forest
Department (APFD) responsible for state forests and that of the VSSs or village level forest protection
committees developed in the past for JFM would require further strengthening to work towards the goals of
CFM. Improving governance by increasing transparency in the sector; giving greater autonomy and
delegating rights and responsibilities to community groups; rational and decentralized management within
the APFD; reconciling overlapping mandates of VSS and Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs); addressing
environmental and social issues; improving planning skills and methods; investing in human resource
development; and improving inter-sectoral linkages and coordination are major institutional challenges
faced by the forest sector in Andhra Pradesh.
(f)    Low investment in public forest management: Forest resources in Andhra Pradesh must fulfill
conservation, subsistence and production functions. The forest sector suffered in the past from a chronic
shortage of investment partly due to the low priority attached to the sector, but also due to fiscal constraints
faced by GOAP. Improving returns through productivity increases, use of cost effective technology, and
improved protection are essential to meet the high expectations of multiple stakeholders. CFM approach is
a revolutionary change to improve conservation and productivity of forests.
Government Strategy
GOI and GOAP's response to continuing depletion of forests and concerns about the resulting loss of
livelihoods for forest dependant people has been enactment of laws for protection and conservation of
forests including biodiversity, taking up massive afforestation and social forestry programs both on public
and private lands and JFM program in public forests during the last two and a half decades and promoting
community involvement in protection and development of forests.
- 4 -



GOI and GOAP share the right to legislate on forestry in India (as this subject is included in the concurrent
list of the Indian Constitution). The GOI and all the Indian states including Andhra Pradesh are
implementing the National Forest Policy of 1988 which seeks to achieve the goals of forest conservation,
productivity improvement, satisfying local needs for forest products and community participation in forest
management. The Forest Conservation Act, 1980 (amended in 1988) is a major policy instrument to check
deforestaion and indiscrimainate diversion of forest land to non-forest uses. GOI has issued guidelines for
involvement of rural communities in the protection and management of forests through participatory (oint)
forest management approach. The GOI recently prepared the National Forestry Action Program, 1999
(NFAP) which seeks to achieve the objectives of sustainable forest management through five strategic
means: (a) protecting existing forest resources; (b) improving forest productivity; (c) reducing demand; (d)
strengthening the policy and institutional framework; and (e) expanding forest area.
GOAP's vision for forestry focuses on the protection and regeneration of forests and forest land in a
manner which will allow the state's rural and tribal people to meet their basic needs for fuel and fodder. To
achieve this a four pronged strategy has been adopted involving the following initiatives: (a) conserving
land and improving the quality of existing forests; (b) strengthening current forest management systems; (c)
conserving biodiversity and genetic resources; and (d) developing villages on the forest fringe to decrease
direct dependence on forests. The strategy to achieve the vision emphasizes community participation
through JFM and poverty alleviation programs.
JFM as the main sector strategy has been under implementation in Andhra Pradesh since 1994 and has
proven effective in restoring forest cover in degraded forest lands, at the same time improving access to
forest resources for communities living in forest fringe areas. The GOAP has adopted a proactive stance
vis-a-vis the creation of an enabling environment for community involvement in forest management. The
latest advancements are outlined in the letter of policy and the policy matrix (Annex 2, Attachments 1&2).
It acknowledges, however, that APFD field staff are operating with a rapidly expanding mandate and that
forests can contribute to poverty alleviation but cannot eliminate poverty. The state has proposed a
transition from JFM to CFM. The CFM framework has been adopted by the GOAP under an order issued
on February 12, 2002. The CFM represents an advance over earlier JFM in that communities will be
empowered to take more autonomous decisions regarding the management of forest resources assigned to
them. Whereas JFM was initiated as a target driven and supply driven process, CFM will be a demand
driven and community driven process. The basic difference between the two is that in JFM, participation is
used to improve forests; in CFM, participation would be used to improve both forests and forest based
livelihoods. Under JFM, state forest departments tended to lead on both forest planning and decision
making, whereas under CFM the APFD would act as a facilitator.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a)    Reversing the adverse social. economic and envirorimental impacts of forest depletion: The project
would concentrate on reversing the impacts of a deteriorating resource base; increasing participation of
forest-dependent communities with special attention to vulnerable groups; redefinition of the role of the
public sector in managing public forests and supporting management of other land-based resources on
communal and marginal agricultural lands; supporting the ongoing shift in the relationship and delivery of
services between the APFD and local communities; and improving the productivity of forest resources.
(b)    Forest protection: The FD will continue to provide support to communities in carrying out this
function as necessary and in response from communities seeking support. In non-CFM areas the FD will
enhance its own capabilities to protect forests. Efficient forest protection would be promoted through the
-5 -



CFM approach whereby the local VSS will take on the responsibility for protection against theft, fire,
heavy grazing and encroachment.
(c)    Equity and conflict issues: The project is aimed at assisting poor rural people living in forest
fringe villages. The project would contribute by promoting security, facilitating empowerment and
enhancing opportunity by involving communities in development and management of forest resources.
Project investments will also contribute to community empowerment by facilitating the ongoing process of
usufiuct transfer from state control to community management, and through investments in training for
VSS members and local institutional development.
(d)    Capacitv building of FD and VSS: The previous forestry project had helped in capacity building
of FD and villagers involved in JFM. This project would support further capacity building, already
initiated with the Bank funded Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance, of Government agencies and
VSS and NGOs for effective implementation of CFM.
(e)    Addressing policy distortions affectinz marketing of forest products: NTFP act as a safety net for
the poor by providing supplemental nutrition and income during lean periods. Project investments in forest
regeneration would enhance this critical function of forests by expanding the NTFP production base. The
project will increase opportunities for the poor to engage in value addition and benefit from the sale of
forest products. Reforms in regulatory framework relating to NWFP collection, processing and marketing
will be supported (see Section C.2).
(f)    Institutional reforms: The project would provide support for the process of policy analysis and
change. A preliminary review of policy and institutions was carried out by GOAP and an institutional
reform matrix (action plan) has been prepared and agreed with GOAP (Annex 2, Attachment 2), the
implementation of this policy matrix would be supported by the project
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project will be implemented in 14 districts (Adilabad, Nizamabad, Mahbubnagar, Medak, Khammam,
Warangal, Karimnagar, East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Chittoor, Cuddapah
and Nellore) with high poverty incidence distributed in the forested northern, coastal and southern belts
with a total of 3.86 m ha of forest land (50 percent of which is open forest or scrub). A group of villages
nearby one another, forming a cluster of VSS, would preferably be selected and CFM would be introduced
and consolidated. This shift to clusters of villages in compact areas is justified on the basis that this will
increase the poverty targeting and increase the degree of "consolidation" in the selected areas. The
consolidation will allow more effective matching of sites to forest dependent groups. As a matter of
priority, the implementation of CFM would be rationalized and consolidated in 5,000 villages where it has
already been initiated.
The three main cornponents to be financed by the project include: (a) establishing an enabling environment
for CFM; (b) forest management; and (c) community development.
- 6-



(a)    Establishing Enabling Environment for CFM. The project would support policy and institutional
changes and capacity building both of the government, community organizations and NGOs. The existing
institutional framework as provided in the recent Government Order (GO) dated February 12, 2002 would
be further strengthened to make it more conducive to implementing community based forest management
(CFM). The project would support project management, monitoring and evaluation, studies and
consultancies, activities of the project Monitoring Unit, staff amenities, and communication facilities, etc.
(b)    Forest Management: This component would focus on improving the productivity of designated
forest lands through improved planning and silvicultural practices, introduction of NTFP using multiple use
shrub and tree species including medicinal plants, agro-forestry, common land afforestation and fodder and
pasture development. The project would also support adaptive forestry research, preparation of a forest
inventory, implementation of an environmental and pest management plan, and development of forest
management information system that would support forest management
(c)    Community Development. The focus of this component would be to help the communities in
improving their village infrastructure and livelihood opportunities through forest as well as non-forest
based income generation activities. Project support would be available for limited community infrastructure
development in the VSS villages, where no other agency is extending such assistance, with a view to
encouraging participation and interest in forest protection. The project would support group-based
economic activities targeting poor in project area villages who gave up encroached (or podu) forest land for
forestry activities under JFM. A tribal development plan would be an integral sub-component in preparing
these investment proposals. A resettlement action plan would include mitigation measures for adverse
impacts, if any, due to the project on the livelihood of the local people. The Project will also finance NGO
support, women community volunteers and preparation of micro plans.
1. Establishing Enabling Environment                  22.19      17.5     14.50      13.4
for CFM
(a) Capacity Building of Government
Agencies
(b) Community Institutions' Capacity
Building
(c) Project Management
2. Forest Management                                  79.86      62.8     71.10      65.7
(a) Forest Treatment
(b) Social Forestry
(c) Planning and Inventory
(d) Applied Research
(e) NTFP & Medicinal Plants
(f) Env. and Pest Management Plan
3. Community Development                              23.57      18.5     21.11       19.5
(a) CFM Support
(b) Village Development
(c) Tribal Development Plan
(d) Resettlement Action Plan
4. Refund of PPF                                       1.50       1.2      1.50        1.4
Total Project Costs                 127.12     100.0     108.21     100.0
Total Financing Required                   127.12     100.0    108.21     100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The following key policy and institutional reforms will be supported by the project:
(a)    Policy Reforms:
* Rural Deregulation. Regulatory and legal constraints include those related to collection,
pricing, transport, information access, and infrastructure (e.g. state control over marketing of
nationalized NTFPs). The project will support the review and improvement of the framework
governing the benefits cormmunities receive from harvesting and marketing of forest products
and promote measures that encourage private sector participation in forest investment. For,
example, under the project the Government will review the legal framework for NTFP
management, trade, and processing, including the operation of the GCC, and make suitable
changes in the existing arrangements in a time bound manner.
*   Financial Devolution. The project would support financial devolution in the rural sector
through the operation of local revolving funds operated by the VSS. During the first project,
APFD introduced cost sharing by individual beneficiaries. This project will support review of
this experience and explore the possibility of cost sharing by communities for group
beneficiary village infrastructure development.
(b)    Institutional Reforms: The APFD has gradually abandoned the traditional "command-and-control"
style of forest management and adopted a participatory approach to improve rural livelihood, enhance
forest protection and productivity.  The first project supported re-orientation and human resource
development. This project will strengthen and deepen the reforms process in the following areas:
*   Rural Decentralization. The project's emphasis on decentralizing forest management to local
communities, and increasing transparency would help enhance APFD's accountability to the
community. The project will support further devolution of key responsibilities from APFD to
the communities with the APFD assuming a facilitating role. Community institutions (VSS)
would: (i) be covered within an improved institutional framework, (ii) assume responsibility for
implementing forestry operations in CFM areas, and (iii) have strong mechanisms for equitable
participation, a mutually agreed micro-plan, and possess capacity to target and protect
vulnerable groups. The VSS are community based self-help groups and are independent of the
PRI. But there is some overlap in their respective mandates. Therefore, there is a recognized
need to develop linkages between these local bodies to improve communication and to
minimize any potential for conflict. The new GO on CFM specifies the exclusion of all
govemment officials from the VSS managing committee ensuring greater autonomy for the
VSS; provides for management of village and forest development funds by the VSS
independently and jointly, respectively and constitution of a VSS advisory council with the
Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat (GP) as its chairperson for better coordination with the GP
and the Gram Sabha (GS) and to aid in any intra or inter-village conflict resolution, if any. In
the tribal sub-plan areas the GS and VSS are coterminus and options would be explored for
building a synergy between the two bodies.
*   Strengthening of the services provided by APFD. Rigid rules and procedures limit APFD's
ability to use the full potential of their staff's technical and creative skills. Over centralization
of decision-making leaves little room for local innovation which could increase program
effectiveness. The project would support greater decentralization of administrative and
- 8 -



financial matters within APFD in order to improve performance and increase the use of
revolving funds. The project would support human resource development in the forest
department; training of the APFD staff to facilitate CFM (e.g. joint training of forest
department staff and community leaders, skills and strategies for conflict resolution); and
greater opportunities for APFD staff to specialize.
*   Expanding inter-sectoral linkages and coordination. A coordination mechanism would be
promoted at the state, district, forest division and village level. For example, a district forest
committee coordinated inputs from various govermment agencies to VSS communities during
the first phase. This model of integrated rural service delivery will be refined and expanded.
The CFM Order dated February 12, 2002 provides for formation of coordination committees
at Panchayat, forest division, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (tribal sub-plan area at
sub-district level), district and state level.
3. Benefits and target population:
Regarding quantifiable benefits, the Project aims to consolidate and expand the benefits of the previous
project (Andhra Pradesh Forestry, IDA Cr. 2573). Over the medium and long-term the Project is expected
to improve the welfare of participating households in tenns of cash incomes and in availability of forest
products including NTFPs and firewood. Periodic thinning and harvest of timber, poles and other small
wood will provide community funds for financing local development works and needs. This mechanism for
generating community funds will further amplify the pro-poor impact of the Project and propel
communities toward more active control of their development.
Community participation under CFM is estimated to benefit approximately 326,000 households, or about
1.8 million people. Tribal communities, recognized as Scheduled Tribes (ST) are concentrated in the 5,000
VSS villages targeted under the project (the concentration of Scheduled Tribal members in.the VSS
committees is roughly 5 times as high as their occurrence in the state's population - 31.8% in committees
versus 6.3% state-wide; 1991 Census Data, Census of India). These villages are among the poorest and
most disadvantaged communities within Andhra Pradesh and India. A large number families in these
villages are landless. The following table indicates the scale of average incremental changes in VSS
household income that are expected to occur. The base case for comparison are the benefits that these
communities are expected in principle to realize from investments made under APFP and other
Government-financed programs that subsequently adopted the APFP approach.
-9-



Summary Household Financial Benefits (2001 constant values)
Average
Annual
NPV Incrernental  Village  Average Annual
NTFP/Ffewood  Funds per  Village Funds
Benefits per  Household  per Household
Household    Wdhout    Wdh Project
Forest Type of VSS Area    @12% (Ps)   Project (Rs)  (Rs)     Period for Averages
Teak Forest                        639      12448       21499  yr 4 through yr 35
Non-Teak Forest                  12256       8567       42184  yr4throughyr36
Bamboo                             234       6550       11250  yr2throughyr35
TealBamboo                       26556       6543        32555  yr 4 through yr 35
Non-Teak6Bamboo                  13746       6539        15071  yr2throughyr35
Teak/NTFP                         8029      13350       33829  yr4through yr 35
Nor-TeakIWFP                      3596      19887       24488  yr4throughyr35
NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal Plants      4986       9446        9446  yr 4 through yr 36
NTFP/Smag Timber                 2215       9037        9487  yr 6 through yr 35
Red Sanders                       2269       1508        2630  yr 7 through yr 35
For the last three forest types in the table, the project would likely have a larger impact on existing
household incomes than on community funds generated from the VSS area. In the short term, the Project
will also finance various village development works and create local employment opportunities. These
benefits serve both to motivate village participation and to provide compensation for the restrictions on the
use of treated forest areas. The Project would also create income opportunities for non-VSS households
through support for social and community forestry. Incomes would primarily be derived from the
production of NTFP, pulp wood and other short rotation crops.
Less directly quantifiable will be the environmental benefits in the form of public goods created by the
Project through improvement of forest ecosystems. Over time, such local changes in ground water recharge
and the implications of improvements in local hydrology may be measured within watersheds and
confidently correlated with the Project's treatments of forest areas. Improvements in the bio-diversity of
VSS areas are also likely to occur having values that are difficult to quantify. Potentially, the VSS forests,
as buffer areas, may contribute to the establishment of a wider protected area system in Andhra Pradesh,
and to the formation of corridors linking protected areas.
Finally, the improvement of state and civil society capacity under the project will promote policy and
institutional reforms (through further devolution of planning, management, monitoring, and dissemination
of information), improved micro and macro-planning, improved utilization of human resources, and the
comparative advantages of engaging NGOs and other civil society organizations in rural development.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
(See Annex 2, Attachment 3 and PIP for details)
An institutional arrangement is already in place that effectively implemented the first Andhra Pradesh
forest project. The Forest Department of the GOAP will be responsible for project implementation under
the overall leadership of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF). A project monitoring unit
- 10 -



(PMU) headed by a Project Director/Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF)/Additional PCCF with three
Conservators, six Deputy/Assistant Conservators of Forests and supporting staff has already been set up.
The PMU will be responsible for coordination, monitoring and reporting. The PMU would have adequate
number of trained staff with specific procurement and financial management responsibility. The project
activities will be implemented by the respective field units and headquarter units of APFD. The territorial
forest divisions will implement CFM in partnership with VSS. They will be supported by the training and
research wing of the FD for capacity building and technological inputs respectively. The FD, in
consultation with VSS, will select NGO or community organizers to act as facilitators. The FD will also
engage women community workers for encouraging active participation by women, and also collaborate
and coordinate with other GOAP agencies for implementing various project components. For example, the
fodder production sub-component will be implemented in collaboration with the Animal Husbandry
Department. The tribal development plan will be implemented in collaboration and coordination with the
tribal welfare department, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) and other line departments of
GOAP. The agriculture and horticulture development activities would be implemented with the support of
the respective line departments.
The VSS have already been formed in all 5,000 project sites though they have varying capacity to manage
the forest resources assigned to them. The FD would initiate the process of micro planning in those sites
which do not have micro plans. The micro plans for other sites would be revisited and revised in
accordance with the new guidelines issued by the FD for micro plan preparation. The micro plans would
be conformity with the working plan of the concerned forest division; the latter are expected to reflect CFM
approach to forest management. NGOs will be selected in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA
(Appendix 6-PIP). Their role would be that of facilitators for planning, capacity building of the community
groups (VSS) and training in alternate income generation activities. They would, however, not participate
in decision making and would implement an exit strategy to withdraw from the VSS after two years.
The existing coordination mechanism would be improved. A steering committee at State level has been set
up under a GOAP order. The comprehensive GO on CFM provides for setting up of coordination
mechanism at village level, ITDA level, forest division level and district level. At district level the existing
district forest committee chaired by the district collector will be the forum for coordination among different
district level govemment agencies. Similarly, under this GO committees at forest division and ITDA levels
would be set up for coordination of all development activities at these levels. At village level coordination
would be ensured through the GP, Sarpanch of the GP being the chairperson of the VSS Advisory Council.
Conflict resolution will be at the local level through VSS Advisory Council. A state level Independent
Advisory Group (IAG), to be serviced by PMU, would be set up, prior to Credit effectiveness, to monitor
resettlement action plan (RAP) and examine complaints relating thereto and propose remedial measures.
Funds Flow
GOAP will provide the budget for the project as an identifiable budget line each year to the Department of
Forests of the GOAP, APFD. The annual budget will be based on the annual work plans of all the forest
circles and forest divisions and their cost estimates. These budget estimates are submitted by the PMU to
the GOAP and voted by the Legislative Assembly. The GOAP will release the budget on a quarterly basis
as per the requirement of funds to the PCCF. The budget allotted and released by the GOAP is further
allocated to the CFs under intimation to the Pay & Accounts Officers (PAO) to honor claims, bills or fund
applications subject to such authorization. The PAOs in turn will issue Letters of Credit (LOC) to the
respective Banks for further allotment of the budget by the CFs to the Divisions.
-11 -



All plantations, forest improvement and related works as agreed in the Micro plans and annual work plans
will be implemented by the VSS directly with technical support of APFD. The VSS represented by the
Chairperson will enter into an agreement with the FD and sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)
for the receipt of funds and the execution of works. Funds required for these works and activities will be
sanctioned on the basis of detailed estimates, by the competent authority and released as an advance by the
Division Forest Officers (DFOs) to the joint 'Government Account' of the VSS. The bank account will be
managed jointly by the Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the Forest Section Officer (FSO)/Forest
Beat Officer (FBO)/Assistant Beat Officer (ABO) as nominated by the Forest Range Officer (FRO). All
withdrawals from the bank accounts will be based on vouchers duly passed by the FSO/FBO and will be
authorized by a resolution by the managing committee of the VSS. The vouchers will be incorporated in the
books of accounts of the concerned Forest Department Officer (FDO) and passed on the DFO following the
APFD normal accounting procedures.
5. Monitoring and Evaluation:
Monitoring and reporting arrangements. The monitoring would be carried out in accordance with the
indicators in the Project Description Summary Log frame (Annex l) and a monitoring framework agreed
with the Bank. The project unit would monitor project implementation by receiving quarterly reports from
divisions and circles. There will be an independent institution on contract for the entire project period to
undertake concurrent monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The impact evaluation would be carried out prior
to Mid-Term Review (MTR) and Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
The project will adopt a comprehensive and participatory monitoring and evaluation system. First, a
baseline survey covering socioeconomic and forest conditions would be undertaken prior to implementation
of project activities for each site. It would be combined with site-specific PRA and microplanning. A three
part monitoring and evaluation system is proposed which emphasizes learning from implementation: (a)
input and output monitoring; (b) independent (third-party periodic) monitoring and concurrent evaluation to
assess participation, institutional development, and other less tangible/quantifiable processes critical to
project success; and (c) impact evaluation. The first two parts would be conducted throughout the project
duration and the third at defined project milestones (baseline, MTR, and ICR).
The PMU will be overall responsible for monitoring and it will be supported by a Conservator of Forests
(Monitoring) and support staff in this task. Computerized monitoring packages (developed as part of an
overall Forest Management Information System (FMIS) and Geographic Information System (GIS) will be
installed at different levels (in the field and through to head-office) and will be used covering all project
components and activities. The monitoring would be undertaken at different levels: (i) at the VSS level,
monitoring would be undertaken by the VSS management committee, NGO/Community Organization
(CO), Women Community Volunteer (WCV) and APFD field-level staff; (ii) at the Divisional level,
monitoring will be undertaken by the DFO, Forest Range Officer (focusing on social issues) and
Divisional/ITDA level Forest Committee; (iii) at the District level, monitoring would be through the DFO,
FRO and District level Forest Committee; and (iv) at the State level, through the PMU and State level
Forest Committee. In addition, an external agency will be engaged to monitor and evaluate overall project
activities, including implementation of the EMP.
- 12 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The fact that this is a follow on operation based on a highly successful first project was a major factor in
deciding project design. In addition, the following altematives were considered and rejected.
(a)    The project being a part of a Central Government sponsored national forest project to be
implemented by GOI (MOEF) covering 3-4 states. This was rejected because of the limited capacity of the
MOEF for implementing, coordinating and monitoring of central or centrally-sponsored extemally funded
projects.
(b)    A forestry project with Panchayati Raj institutions (PRIs) as implementing agencies. At the state
level, altematives for management of public forest land are constrained by the fact that APFD is the legal
custodian of the land. The PRI are govemed by a separate Ministry in the state and the Panchayat Raj
Department and GP do not have territorial jurisdiction and the capacity as well as mandate to manage
forests.
(c)    Forestry as a component in a broader watershed or rural poverty reduction program was
considered. However, experience shows that independent focused forestry projects are required to capture
institutional aspects, policy reforms, technological improvement etc. The Bank is also pursuing the
formulation of a poverty reduction project in Andhra Pradesh which is likely to include natural resource
aspects.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
L atest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Forestry projects                 West Bengal Forestry             S             S
Project(C)
Maharashtra Forestry             S             S
Project(C)
Andhra Pradesh Forestry          HS           HS
Project(C)
Madhya Pradesh Forestry          S             S
Project(C)
Uttar Pradesh Forestry           S             S
Project(O)
Kerala Forestry Project (0)      S             S
Forestry Research Education      S             S
and Extension Project(C)
Ecodevelopment Project(O)        S             S
- 13 -



Watershed projects                Integrated Watershed              S            S
Development Project-Hills(C)
Integrated Watershed              S            S
Development Project - Plains
(0)
Integrated Watershed              S            S
Development Project - Hills
(Phase II)(O)
Karnataka Watershed               S            S
Development Project (0)
Other development agencies
Japanese Bank for Intemational    Gujarat: Integrated Forestry
Cooperation formerly OECF (Japan)  Development Project
Rajasthan: Afforestation and
Pasture Development
Rajasthan: Afforestation Project
Aravalli Hill
Rajasthan: Forestry
Development Project
Tamil Nadu: Forestry and
Ecorestoration Project
Karnataka: Forestry and
Environment Project
Punjab Forestry Project
United Kingdom                    Westem Ghats: Forestry Project
Himachal Pradesh: Forestry
Project
EU                                Haryana: Rehabilitation of
Common Lands
FRG                               Himachal Pradesh;
Ecodevelopment for Changar
Valley
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project is based on the experiences from the implementation of recent forestry projects in Andhra
Pradesh and elsewhere in India; the Operation Evaluation Department's report - India: Alleviating Poverty
through Forest Development (2000); recently concluded sector work on forest policy and institutions; and
reports and case studies prepared by the APFD. Lessons learnt from the previous Andhra Pradesh Forestry
project as described in the recently concluded ICR Report No. 22021 and draft project performance
assessment report (PAR) of OED have also been taken into account. These have been reflected in the
project design and are listed below:
(a)    Conmmunity participation is critical to forest protection and management. The situation prior to,
and after, implementation of the first phase has shown that the willing involvement of forest or forest fringe
dwellers is essential for effective management and protection of the forests. In addition experience suggests
that:
- 14 -



*   Small homogenous groups tend to successfully sustain involvement and equitably share benefits.
*   Joint training has played an important role in helping APFD staff and communities understand
their respective roles.
*   Adoption of the participatory approach has facilitated the incorporation of community objectives in
forest management and this in turn has contributed to a growing sense of mutual trust and
partnership.
*   Quick financial returns are an important incentive for young VSS and most micro-plans should
incorporate at least some forest crops that are likely to yield early benefits (bamboo, medicinal
plants, and other NTFPs)
* A clear and agreed exit strategy governing the eventual withdrawal of government support to each
VSS helps to define the timeline for institutional and financial development.
*   Micro planning should consider and address the needs of poor forest dependent people both within
the VSS village and in neighboring communities.
(b)    It is possible to rapidly reorient a large public entity from a "command and control" stance to one
of community participation if there is commitment from the top and proper training and incentives are in
place, however the reorientation is not smooth nor uniform and it takes time to complete the process.
Communities and lower level staff also need to acquire new skills. A sustained and responsive training
program is an essential element and the duration of this program may be longer than a single project period.
(c)    Maintaining expected benefits is important for sustainabilitv of CFM. Benefits flowing to
communities from forest and non-forest activities (including employment, income generation, and safety net
functions) must be sustained beyond the end of the project period to ensure continued community support
and success of CFM.
(d)    In tribal forest areas characterized by migration. shifting cultivation and insecure tenure there is a
high potential for triggering the involuntary resettlement safeguard and Bank management should focus on
this issue during project preparation and supervision. Greater care needs to be taken to address adverse
impacts on livelihood of poorest villagers associated with restrictions on access to forests and economic
displacement, especially those related to efforts by communities and or the government to retrieve
encroached forest lands or reduce podu (shifting cultivation) in forest lands.
(e)    Economic analysis of community development interventions will usually be incomplete if it
assesses only net benefits associated with user group members themselves or their allocated area because
other groups may have previously utilized resources within the boundaries of the designated area and
because members may have previously utilized resources outside of the boundary.
(f)    Women's role in CFM is important and benefits flowing to women are potentiallv substantiaL
Women are especially sensitive to changes in access to forest resources due to their daily investments in
gathering fuelwood and other minor forest products. Full and active participation of women is a
prerequisite for successful community forest management. Women appear to be gaining a key role in VSS
decision making and are capturing a significant amount of forest generated employment. The women's
thrift groups formed have provided these groups with an unprecedented degree of financial independence,
increased their social confidence and generated a solid base for women's development in the community.
(g)    Improved plantinr material has a high benefit to cost ratio. The introduction of certified seed and
clonal planting material, together with the use of root trainers and appropriate potting material has shown
the potential for considerable increase in yields of wood products, especially when compared to the small
- 15 -



incremental costs incurred. The extended use of such planting materials will further add to CFM
sustainability and enhance poverty alleviation among both forest fringe dwellers and small and marginal
farmers.
(h)    More attention is required to be given to sustainable NTFP management including harvesting,
processing and marketing.
(i)    Conflicts are an inherent feature of natural resource management projects. Brining degraded,
open-access resources under community management presents particular problems for equitably
assessing/mitigating livelihood impacts on neighboring communities and individuals. Project support should
be directed toward enhancing the capabilities of local and state level institutions to adopt proactive policies
that avoid conflict where possible, and resolve or manage conflicts effectively when they occur.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
State-level Commitment
The GOAP are committed to poverty reduction through participatory forest management which is part of
their vision relating to the forestry sector. It is focused on the protection and regeneration of forests and
forest land to allow the state's rural and tribal people to meet their basic needs for fuel and fodder. The
strategy to achieve the vision emphasizes community participation through JFM and other poverty
alleviation programs. GOAP successfully implemented the first forestry project which was completed in
time and was fully disbursed under which APFD introduced JFM in 2,666 forest fringe villages. JFM
expanded to about 3,500 additional villages under GOAP's other schemes. Even after the completion of
APFP the Government continued implementing and expanding JFM using other resources. GOAP has also
issued a comprehensive GO, a key forest sector reform, for transition from JFM to CFM ensuring greater
rural decentralization, empowerment of VSSs, gender equity and autonomy to VSS. An institutional
reform agenda has also been prepared and accepted for implementation.
Not only is the political leadership committed to the project and sectoral objective but also GOAP
administration, APFD and various stakeholders like village communities in the project area and civil
society support the project design and expected outcome. GOAP is also committed to implement a tribal
development plan, environmental management plan and rehabilitation action plan to mitigate any adverse
impacts due to the project. As part of the project preparation and social and environmental assessment there
were extensive consultations with all stakeholders organized by NGOs, National Institute of Rural
Development (NERD) and APFD on social and environmental impact assessment and the project design.
In the project districts 5,000 VSS are in place ready to commence implementation of the project.
National-level Commitment
The GOI, MOEF has requested Bank support for its recently-released National Forestry Action Program
(NFAP). GOI is committed to the approach of community participation in forest management for achieving
the goals of poverty reduction and sustainable forest management. The MOEF remained involved at all the
major milestones during the processing of the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
'The Bank support for the recently completed APFP resulted in a positive outcome. The Bank is one of the
few institutions that could provide the necessary continuity of support to consolidate CFM and expand it
In addition, the Bank's involvement in similar projects in India and elsewhere provides a mechanism for
- 16 -



transferring up-to-date practical experience to APFD during project imnplementation. This experience
enables the Bank to engage in a constructive dialogue on sector policies and management issues with both
state and central government. The Bank also brings in intemational experience from which the country can
learn; its support acts as a catalyst for change and reforms in sector policies and institutions; and provides
financial support to the sector in time of fiscal constraints. The emphasis on decentralization, institutional
development, lowering costs and increasing productivity in combination with expanded use of revolving
fund mechanisms is expected to improve the level of resources available for investment in the sector on a
sustainable basis.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$5663 million; ERR = 21 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project was estimated by treating all project outputs (except for
timber) as non-tradable goods whose economic values can be estimated by applying a standard conversion
factor (SCF) of 0.9. The (VSS) farm gate value for timber was considered to adequately represent its
economic value. Establishment costs for the VSS forest development are almost entirely expenditures for
labor, as are the costs for maintenance, surveillance and protection. These expenditures were also
converted to their equivalent economic values with the use of the SCR  All other project costs are
converted to their economic values on the basis of their estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange
content and their portion of local costs, excluding taxes. The local cost content of project costs, excluding
taxes, were converted to their economic values with the use of the SCF. Benefits of possible carbon
sequestration were at this point not included in the analysis.
The project has a base ERR estimated at 21 percent and an NPV discounted at 12 percent of about Rs.
5,763 million, taking into account establishment and other project costs including: (i) capacity building of
government agencies (ii) capacity building of communities and NGOs; (iii) project management; (iv)
applied research; and (v) forest planning and management. The base ERR excludes investment costs and
net benefits from community/social forestry and project supported community development as the
composition of these activities is yet to be defined by beneficiaries. The returns to these activities,
moreover, are not expected to influence substantially the overall returns to the Project. The Social Forestry
component in particular is an activity representing a relatively small fraction of project costs and so would
not substantially affect the overall performance of the project. Social forestry, however, is part of the
Project's approach to conflict resolution. Although the direct physical benefits of social forestry occurring
outside VSS areas might be relatively small compared to rest of the project's forest development, the
absence of this activity might adversely affect the implementation of project's targeted community forest
management. A sensitivity analysis indicates that the base ERR is robust and is only weakly responsive to
variations in incremental benefits and total investment costs as specified.
If firewood had been valued on the basis of its caloric content and the import parity price for kerosene, the
results of the economic analysis for the project would be slightly higher than presented here.
- 17 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = 27 % (see Annex 4)
NPV Indian Rupee 7,236 million
Fiscal Impact:
Fiscal impact: The Project is expected to have an overall net positive fiscal impact which has not been
estimated. Over time the Government will receive some share of final harvests and obtain revenue from
forests that it would not have collected in the absence of the Project. There are no incremental staff
requirements under the Project and recurrent costs following project completion are minimal and declining.
Facilities developed to produce improved planting material filly recover their costs from sales. The VSS
develop the financial capability of maintaining the area under their management. The Project will instead
help AFPD to re-deploy resources to improve maintenance of core State forest resources, and so ensure
their productivity.
Financial impact. In aggregate the financial rate of return to the Project is estimated at 27 percent. The
corresponding NPV discounted at 12 percent amounts to approximately Rs. 7,236 million. As done in the
economic analysis, these retums exclude costs and net benefits of community/social forestry and project
supported community development (For details see Annex 4). Even if the investment costs of the
community development component (Village Asset Development) were accounted against the above
project's incremental net benefits, but not any possible community development benefits, the IRR of the
project is estimated at 19 percent and an NPV that would amount to approximately Rs. 5,199 million. The
financial performance of the project is, therefore, not expected to be notably sensitive to variations in total
project investment costs.
3. Technical:
The project would support improving forest cover and productivity by restoring degraded lands to make
them more productive. Forest regeneration would be supported through a number of land treatment
practices including both natural and artificial regeneration, soil and moisture conservation and cultural
operations in accordance with a micro plan. The treatment practices would be site specific and cost
effective. Priority would be given to short rotation wood and non-wood product yielding species including
fruits, fiber, medicine and bamboo. Early harvesting returns would help in generating resources for VSS
for sustaining the CFM program. The implementing agency has the technical know how for undertaking
project funded forest development activities both in publicly owned forest lands and non-forest lands in
adjoining villages. The FD would ensure that the silvicultural practices are consistent with the forest
working plan. The project funded training to VSS members, FD staff and NGO workers will assist with
building further technical capability.
The research wing of the FD would provide improved planting stock, quality seed and clonal material and
would organize extension of technology and results of applied research to field units. The project would
also fund establishment of 14 extension centers one in each project district by upgrading an existing
nursery facility. MIS and GIS and FMIS would be used for improved planning and monitoring of forest
management.
- 18 -



4. Institutional:
An assessment of the present organizational capacity of the FD in terms of staff revealed that the vacancies
of the staff at the interface level with the community (Forest Section Officers, Beat Officers and Assistant
Beat Officers) are very large. Added to this are the retirements coming up in the next five years which
pushes up the vacancies even more. In the context of the above facts, while there is an overall ban on
recruitment at the State level, the GOAP has recently reported to have allowed recruitment against the
vacancies reserved for scheduled tribes. The capacity of the APFD would be augmented with community
(VSS) taking up implementation themselves, and the role of staff changing from doers to facilitators; by
empowerment of front line staff through enhanced delegation of authority and simplification of paper work.
A committee has been set up to review and recommend delegation of power to subordinate field staff and
simplification of paper work to enhance capacity of the FD at various levels. The report would be ready
and implemented in the first year of the project.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Forest Department of GOAP is responsible for project implementation in partnership with other
Govemment department and the local communities (VSS). APFD has technical staff in the project
districts who are engaged in implementing the JFM program under other GOAP schemes. The shortage of
staff would be compensated by involvement of community organizers and NGOs. The capacity of the
executing agencies would be further improved through project support.
4.2 Project management:
The FD implemented the first project successfully under the overall leadership of the Principal Chief
Conservator of Forests (PCCF). Trained and experienced staff for monitoring, procurement and financial
management and coordination is in place in the project monitoring unit headed by a Project Director.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project is a follow on operation to the earlier completed APFP. However, the process of CFM is
designed to be further improved to make community participation more effective. This would involve a
shift in the present method of implementation of micro plans from Force Account towards community
based operation. The procedures under which community procurement have been agreed to are given in the
PIP. A series of workshops will be conducted periodically to build up capacity of NGOs and VSS in the
procurement of forestry and other field development works. Further, the APFD has inadequate capacity for
procurement of items like computers and peripherals and GIS equipment and therefore Andhra Pradesh
Technology Services which has adequate expertise in procurement of such items in accordance with Bank's
procedure will carry out procurement of these items under the project.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project financial management system is adequate to account for project resources and expenditures. A
draft financial manual for the project has been prepared which documents the accounting policies and
procedures applicable to the project. APFD is developing an integrated computerized system - in the
interim the manual accounting system is followed. 'The finance function will be managed by a Chief
Accounts Officer (CAO) and a dedicated officer in the PMU, who is well versed in Bank's accounting and
reporting requirements. The Divisional and Circle level offices of APFD are staffed by Accounts Officers
and Superintendents. Since, the capacity at the VSS's, which are to handle a substantial amount of project
and funds from other sources, is clearly not adequate, one of the critical functions of the VSS Advisory
Council of which the concemed FBO, FSO, NGO, and other govemment and VSS office bearers are
members will be to provide hands on support in order to enhance capacity of the VSS office bearers in
book keeping and accounting. The Advisory Council will also work with a VSS to assist in the process of
financial planning and management for the revenue generated from other sources with a view to building
-19-



self-sustainability. Training on the project's expectations of the accounting arrangements at the VSS level
will be provided to the village advisory council.
The key tasks completed by FD to implement an adequate financial management system in the project are:
(a) development of Financial Management Manual for project accounting and financial management; (b)
preparation of training plan for all APFD accounting staff and agreement of the plan with the Bank; (c)
development of Financial Manual for simple book keeping, accounting and reporting arrangements at the
VSS level.
Disbursements: Disbursements from IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system
(reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and could be converted to
the Project Management Report based disbursements at the option of the GOAP and GOI after the
successful implementation of the computerized FMIS.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$5 million would cover eligible
expenditure for implementing activities after June 1, 2002. Retroactive financing would support consultant
services, trainings, operating costs, advance forestry works and research.
Audit: The Accounts of the Project will be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) or his
appointee (Principal Accountant Genaral-AP). The annual project financial statements audited by the
CAG/AG would be submitted within six months of the close of GOAP's fiscal year (as required under the
Bank's operational policies).
The audit covenants of Cr. 2573-IN, a project being implemented by the same entity, have been complied
with so far. The audit report for 2000-01 (April-September 2001) has been received and the Bank has
sought detailed clarifications for the amounts disallowed by the CAG. APFD has submitted a time-bound
action plan for the resolution of the amounts disallowed.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The key environmental concems in the forest sector identified were: (i) shifting cultivation in forest areas;
(ii) forest encroachment; (iii) unsustainable exploitation of fuelwood; and (iv) grazing of domestic
livestock. In terms of the proposed project interventions, the SEA argues that environmental impacts from
the proposed forest management operations and community development are overwhelmingly positive and
any negative impacts are likely to be very insignificant, site-specific and easily managed by proper
surveillance, design and monitoring of project investments. Specific measures are identified in the SEA for
enhancing the potential positive benefits and mitigation of any risks arising from project interventions.
The SEA includes an environmental management plan (EMP), pest management plan, a tribal development
strategy and a resettlement action plan. Prior to Appraisal, the SEA and related documents were disclosed
in-country and in the Bank nifo-Shop. In-country disclosure has been accomplished through local language
summaries (in Telugu) of the SEA summary, EMP, PMP, TDP and RAP which are available in places
accessible to local communities and other stakeholder groups. A strong consultative framework has been
in-built into the project design for implementation of the project through the VSS microplanning process.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project is not expected to have any significant adverse environmental impact, and given the type and
- 20 -



nature of the proposed activities, it is expected to have a significant impact in improving environmental
conditions in the selected VSSs.
The EMP identifies the key issues relating to the development of the forest sector and potential
project-related impacts and identifies broad strategies and actions for their mitigation and management,
including policy and legal changes. The EMP deals in some detail on site-specific silvicultural and
technical remedies for improving productivity of existing forests through managing existing plant root stock
and improved natural regeneration, soil and water conservation options, improved management of grazing,
fodder and livestock development, fire management, village-level environmental management, and altemate
income generating activities. Village-level environmental activities include options for sanitation and solid
waste management, provision of safe drinking water, improving local health systems, the supply of
alternate energy sources to replace the unsustainable exploitation of forest resources and fuelwood, and
enviromnental awareness. In terms of project-related investment activities, some small and confined
impacts might be anticipated through the loss of soil nutrients in clonal plantations and loss of biodiversity
during the tending of existing rootstock, fire management and monoculture plantations, but these impacts
(if any) are expected to be easily manageable within the proposed microplanning process and institutional
capacity. The over-whelming impact is nevertheless expected to be very environmentally positive. The
EMP includes an estimated budget, implementation responsibilities, linkages to institutional coordination
mechanisms, and indicators and responsibilities for monitoring. Although a project-level EMP has been
developed, most of the activities would be mainstreamed and implemented through VSS microplans.
Coordination of the implementation of the microplan at the VSS level would be accomplished through the
establishment of a VSS Advisbry Committee which functions under the guidance of the Village Sarpanch
and would include the concerned forest staff, Village Administrative Officer, representative of Village
Tribal Development Agency (where relevant), Village School Principal and local-level NGO. In addition,
at the district-level, a Coordination Committee would be established to coordinate inputs from the various
line agencies.
Although the project will not finance the purchase and support the application of any pesticides, some
limited amounts of pesticides are expected to be used in forest nurseries and activities connected with
artificial forest regeneration, particularly if the area is infested with soil borne insects like termites and
grubs and fungal diseases. The pest management plan prepared as part of the SEA focuses on safety,
cost-effectiveness and durability.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: January, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The SEA was undertaken through a stratified random sampling approach and conducted through a
participatory process involving various community stakeholder groups, including forest dependents,
encroachers, Forest Protection Committees (VSS) and local level NGOs, present in the area. A number of
participatory techniques were employed, including Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA), Focus Group
Discussions, individual interactions and joint walks in forest with villagers. Data was also collected from
local governmental and district officials and academics. The interim report, including the EMP was
discussed at two state-level workshops and three regional consultation meetings with stakeholders, NGOs
and civil society.  The project design includes a strong consultative process for identification and
implementation of proposed project interventions through a site-specific (VSS) level microplanning
process.
-21 -



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
A framework has been developed for monitoring and evaluation of the proposed project activities. The
monitoring framework envisages both internal and external monitoring of the project, including
environmnental aspects. Environmental indicators include such aspects as impact on water sources, ground
water, soil and moisture regimes, soil and nutrient components, run-off, changes in land cover and use,
species richness and diversity, etc. In terms on the impact on forest resources, changes in fuelwood
dependency, control of grazing and changes in population of domestic livestock, encroachment, village
hygiene conditions, common property resource conditions, etc. would be monitored.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project development objective is to reduce rural poverty through improved forest management with
community participation. Specific outcomes of this objective include empowering and strengthening
community institutions and developing and implementing mechanisms to ensure that the vulnerable
sections (including women, tribal, head loaders, landless and others) benefit from forest management
changes. These outcomes are primarily social in nature particularly the emphasis on including and
empowering vulnerable groups (women, scheduled tribes and castes, landless) to have greater voice in the
decision making process and strengthening community institutions. Such an approach is expected to
improve the livelihood of rural people in and around the forest areas.
The core principles in the implementation of the project are that: (i) local communities play an active role in
shaping relevant project interventions; (ii) individuals and communities, particularly from vulnerable
sections among them, have equal opportunities to participate in the process of planning, implementation
and monitoring of the project; and (iii) individuals and communities if affected by the project interventions
will be supported under the project to mitigate any adverse impacts.
(i) Local communities play an active role in shaping relevant project intervention: The project is aimed
at assisting the rural poor living in forest fringe areas by facilitating their empowerment and enhancing
the involvement of communities in development and management of forest resources. Under the project,
VSS, facilitated by FD, local NGO/CO and community women volunteers, is responsible for planning,
implementing and monitoring different components of the project at the VSS level as well as distribution
of benefits/revenue accruing to it among its members.
(ii) Individuals and communities, particularly vulnerable among them, have equal opportunities to
participate in the project: The project aims to ensure that benefit streams do reach the marginalized and
vulnerable sections among the VSSs. All VSSs proposed to be covered under the project are in place and
are functioning. Wherever required, these VSSs and the management committees will be strengthened by
enrolling members from vulnerable communities to ensure their representation and efforts will be made to
promote their active participation. In respect of gender, either the President or Vice-President of VSS
management committee will be a woman and will be a joint signatory to the VSS bank account. This will
provide the women members a 'voice' in community decision making and improve targeting of
employment and income generation opportunities. Specific measures are planned to ensure equal
opportunity to all sections of population to get benefits under the project.
(iii) Individuals and communities if affected by the project interventions will be supported under the
project to mitigate any adverse impacts: Project has built in mitigation measures against any adverse
- 22 -



impact on communities dependent on forest (like podu cultivators, forest land encroachers, etc.) resulting
in loss of their livelihood. For this purpose, project level RAP and TDP have been prepared. Specific
RAP and TDP will be prepared which will form an integral part of the Micro plan of each VSS covered
under the project. Model RAP and TDP have been prepared for one of the VSS to be covered under the
project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As part of preparation, a combined social and environmental assessment (SEA) was carried out covering a
sample of VSSs, individual interviews and group discussions, stakeholders workshops at different levels
to consult and involve all project players in designing the project Besides, APFD also carried out a series
of workshops on different aspects with a number of project stakeholders and these have been documented.
The R&R policy and tribal development strategy emerged out of these consultations with the affected/tribal
communities and other stakeholders. During project implementation, strategic social assessment will be
carried out by the VSS communities facilitated by NGO/CO and FD staff, to prepare Village level
microplans. These plans will be agreed with FD and its implementation is vested with the local VSS,
thereby ensuring their active participation. Special mechanisms will be built in the microplans to enhance
involvement of vulnerable sections of the local population in planning and implementing project
interventions.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The National Institute of Rural Development (Hyderabad) was engaged to undertake SEA which also
organized state and regional level stakeholders workshops where NGOs and other civil society
organizations actively participated in the discussions. Besides, FD also organized a series of workshops
involving NGOs and civil societies. All these consultations contributed to the design of the project. APFD
will draw upon its useful working relationship with the NGOs and civil societies and wherever available,
these will also be involved to facilitate local communities to take up project activities at the VSS level. In
their absence, Community Organizers (CO) will be engaged to help the VSS in planning and implementing
project activities at the VSS level. WCV will be involved in this process with an aim to enhance the
participation of women in the project and ensure that they also get project benefits on par with others.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
In order to have a focused attention to social issues and ensure that the project will achieve its development
outcomes, PMU has a senior level officer (with experience of working in tribal areas particularly focusing
on community participation, rural development and conflict resolution) of the rank of Deputy Conservator
of Forests. His counterparts at the district level will be the Forest Range Officer with similar experience
and exposure. All staff required for overseeing planning and implementing project activities both at PMU
and District level has already been identified and assigned responsibilities. NGO/CO will be engaged to
help FD staff and facilitate VSS communities in planning, implementing and monitoring project activities at
the VSS level. WCV, selected from among VSS women members, will be engaged to address the issues
related to women members of the VSS community. Forest Committees at the divisionallITDA, district and
state levels will help resolve grievances and ensure the required coordination with the concemed
departments to achieve project objectives. At the VSS level these functions will be carried out by VAC.
Under the project, local capacity to deal with social issues will be developed through training programs,
exposure trips, experience sharing workshops and documenting and disseminating good practices.
- 23 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will have both intemal and extemal monitoring mechanisms on social issues. Intemal
monitoring will be done at different levels: (i) VSS level - by the VSS management committee, NGO/CO,
WCV, and field level functionaries of APFD; (ii) divisional/ITDA level - by DFO, FRO (focusing on
social issues) and the Divisional/lTDA level Forest Committee; (iii) district level - by DFO, FRO and
District level Forest Committee; and (iv) state level - by PMU and State level Forest Committee. Besides,
an extemal agency that will be engaged to monitor and evaluate the project activities will also cover social
issues (related to resettlement and tribal development) and social development out comes of the project.
Prior to Credit effectiveness a state level Independent Advisory group will be established to advise GOAP
on the implementation of RAP and also to examine complaints relating thereto and propose remedial
measures.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 436, GP 4.36)                                     * Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Propert (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          * Yes O No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Policy                          Compliance Measures and Comments
Environmental Assessment    To assess the environmental impacts, APFD has prepared an Environmental
(OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)  Assessment (EA) of the project which is consistent with O.P. 4.01 and the
GOI's environmental assessment policies and an EMP.
Pest Management (OP 4.09)   The project does not provide for any direct investment in procurement of
pestricides. The use of pesticides in forestry practices in Andhra Pradesh is
limited to forest nurseries (where they are used in a limited way for treating leaf
defoliators) and in areas infested with termites. However, pest and pesticide
management issues relevant to the project were addressed in the SEA and a pest
management plan has been developed to ensure that anticipated induced
impacts from possible application of pesticides are adequately addressed.
Indigenous Peoples (OD     Locally called as 'girijans', Scheduled Tribes (STs) constitute 6.3% of the state
4.20)                      population mostly living in 9 scheduled areas (administered by ITDAs). It is an
important community in relation to the project and constitutes between 2.1 to
25.2% of the population in 14 project districts. As part of SEA, a Tribal Study
was carried out which found that most of 33 recognized tribal groups in the
state live in the fringes of forest areas. They have their own dialects and a
majority of them also speak the local language (Telugu). These groups are
- 24 -



disadvantaged - socially, educationally and economically. They are mostly
dependent on agriculture and forest. Almost 87% of main workers are in
agriculture sector. They continue to practice traditional and subsistence
agriculture.  Various  constitutional safeguards, policy regulations and a
number of development programs have improved the socio-economic status of
tribals but as compared to others, they continue to remain disadvantaged and
poor. Therefore, under the project, a focused attention is planned through a
Tribal development strategy to dovetail existing government programs and the
project would support additional activities where ever required to ensure that
these communities derive maximum benefits from the project. A Tribal
Development Plan (TDP), as envisaged under OD 4.20, has been prepared
which includes a development strategy and specific measures for tribal
development under the project, institutional and monitoring arrangements, time
plan and budget. A model TDP for one of the VSS (Titnigvalsa) has been
prepared which provides the base for the VSS communities to prepare TDPs for
individual VSS village proposed to be covered under the project.
Involuntary Resettlement   The project neither envisages any physical displacement nor acquisition of any
(OD 4.30)                  new land. However, voluntary surrender of encroached forest lands resulting in
loss of livelihood is a major concem under the project. The voluntary nature of
surrender will be verified according to a procedure agreed with the Bank. Based
on the findings of SEA and consultation with the affected community and other
stakeholders, GOAP has prepared a Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R)
policy. Taking into account the results of the census survey carried out in
sample VSS and the R&R policy provisions, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
has been prepared as required under OD 4.30. This plan gives an estimate of
families encroaching forest land within VSS boundaries, families willing to
surrender encroached land, mitigation measures, mechanism for implementation,
monitoring and redressing grievances, time plan and budget. A model RAP
prepared for one of the VSS (Titingvalas VSS) will help the VSS community,
facilitated by NGO/CO, to prepare their own location specific RAP. A
State-level Independent Advisory Group will be setup to advise the Government
on implementation of RAP and also to examine complaints.
Forestry 4.36              In temns of the forestry OD, the project will not support any logging of natural
forests, but will promote community management of forests and improved
environmental protection.  GOAP state-wide forest strategy is aimed at
sustainable management of forests and policies and institutional capacity will be
further strengthened to promote, manage, monitor and enforce such practices.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability is a core principle of the project and has been factored into the major project design. It
encompasses the following aspects:
(a)    Institutional and social and social sustainabilitv. Commitment and understanding of government
leadership, and performance of the project's enabling environment component (especially actions affecting
the incentive framework) and involvement of local communities CFM will play important role in ensuring
- 25 -



institutional and social susrtainability. Issues related to fairness, social inclusion, and conflict resolution
both within and among local communities will be addressed for long-term sustainability, since the actions
of a few individuals can undennine both efforts to improve forest management and social cohesion.
Devolution of financial and technical decision making increases the likelihood of reliable maintenance.
(b)    Environmental sustainabilitv. Reversing trends in environmental degradation requires long-term
monitoring to extend beyond the project period and the project area. Enhancing an enabling environment
(policy plus institutional elements) and technical improvements (e.g. harvesting and processing techniques
for non-timber forest products, guidelines for incorporating conservation objectives in microplanning)
should make a significant contribution to increased environmental sustainability.
(c)    Financial sustainabilitv. Arrangements facilitating self-financing (revolving funds) both within the
state government, and within local communities (VSS) will make an important contribution to financial
sustainability. The analysis of the project considered the ability of the VSS to receive and transfer
sufficient income from one period to the next to finance forest management operations (including the cost of
surveillance and protection) and still realize a surplus for village development or redistribution among
members. Without the project the VSS are not likely to be financially sustainable because the areas of
treated and rehabilitated forest within their CFM forest areas are too small to provide sufficient incomes.
Many would require a much longer period. The treatment of additional areas within VSS-managed forests
would substantially improve VSS cash flows as income from NTFP and bamboo would start flowing in
three to five years fifty percent of which would be used for village development and the rest for forest
management. With the project VSS in general should become financially sustainable within six years.
(d)    Technical Sutainabilit. The project will be technically sustainable as improved silvicultural
practices will be used. There will be a research and extension support to help in using improved planting
stock of timber and NTFP and medicinal plants. The dissemination of new technology will be ensured
through training, publicity and demonstration. Modem nurseries were already developed under the first
project. The technology will be transferred to field forest units as well as local VSS and farmers. The GIS
and MIS upgradation will also be made sustainable by creating revolving fund frm fees collected from
non-FD user agencies for services provided.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk        .           Risk.Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure,
From Outputs to Objective
Weak Government commitment to              M         Adequate institutional and regulatory
participatory forest management and                  framework in place, community skill upgraded
benefit sharing arrangements of future               and empowered to sustain community forest
harvests                                             management.
Future prices for forest products decline  M         Promotion of value-added processing; support
substantially in real terms                          for improved efficiency in marketing; changes
introduced in Government monopoly on forest
product harvesting and marketing; possibly by
hedging introduced through the operation of
local, land conservancy "forest banks".
Community conflicts not satisfactorily     M         Social coherence of beneficiaries and tribal
resolved                                             customs regarding settling of disputes already
provide significant capacity for conflict
- 26 -



resolution. Grievance redressal mechanism is in
place at different levels. Conflicts will be
resolved through implementing RAP/TDP.
Project provides assistance for the development
of skills for conflict resolution.
Naxalite militants disrupt operation of    M         VSS well organized to convince Naxalites not to
VSS                                                 disrupt the CFM. Potential vulnerable areas
would be excluded from project.
Low morale of frontline APFD staff         M        Government support for HRD within APFD.
NGO opposition to Project; cricism by      S         Extensive consultations with NGOs during
activist groups and complaints from                 Project preparation and implementation;
NGOs and others regarding                           transparency of APFD Project implementation;
implementation                                      APFD development of a communication
strategy for a continuous dialogue with various
stakeholders; participation of NGOs in Project
implementation.
Access restrictions resulting from         S        Independent Advisory Group established to
improved protection by VSS and                      advise GOAP on implementation of the RAP, to
voluntary surrender of encroached/podu               examine complaints and propose remedial
land become contentious                             measures
From Components to Outputs
Delays in timely action on necessary legal  M       Assurances obtained from GOAP upfront.
reforms and prompt government orders on
implementation methods
Working plans not prepared and approved    M         APFD prepares working plan for all project
by MOEF in a timely manner leading to                districts within the first two years of the project.
delay in harvesting forest products.
Departmental staff resistant to accepting  N         Develop and implement appropriate incentives;
new roles and undergoing necessary                   rationalize staff roles; devolve financial
training                                             authority to communities.
Weak community leadership                  N         Peer pressure; selectivity of Project
implementation; training provided under the
Project and facilitating roles of engaged NGOs.
Inadequate inter-sectoral coordination at  M         Regular meetings at VSS Advisory Councils,
district level                                       ITDA, Forest Division, District Forest
Committees, State level CFM Committee,
Project Steering and Coordinating Committee
will be ensured and monitored.
Conflict of VSS with Village Panchayat     M         VSS Advisory Council headed by Village
sarpanch will be organized for each VSS village
for coordination and linkages between the two
- 27 -



and resolving conflicts, if any.
The project envisages a large component   M         GOAP has passed detailed and comprehensive
of capacity building of community level             order which provide for transparency and
organizations - VSS's as self-sustaining            reporting requirements.
institutions. GOAP has issued Order
authorizing sharing of State revenues with          The project design recognizes that VSSs will
the VSS's. This will require substantial            need substantial hands-on support and training
local capacity to manage these funds and            in financial management, book-keeping and
there is an inherent risk that the funds may        accounting. The emphasis will thus be on
not be managed and accounted for                    training the FT members to provide these inputs
properly.                                           to the VSS's.
Oversight functions and authorization to take
corrective action has been provided to District
Forestry Committees.
There is also an accountability mechanism to the
communities through public display of project
status - receipts and payments and periodic user
group meetings.
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
With reference to the above table, the possible controversial aspects include:
*   NGO opposition stemming from uneven implementation of proposed reforms, delays
in transfer of rights to local communities, and any deviation from Bank safeguard
policies, among others. The risk mitigation measures are outlined above.
*   Access restrictions resulting from improved protection by VSS and voluntary
surrender of encroached/podu land could become contentious. The risk mitigation
measures includes an emphasis on developing and disseminating conflict resolution
mechanisms, improved coordination at the local level through the VSS Advisory
Council, and strengthening the legal framework to define the rights and responsibilities
of VSS members.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following event is specified as additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    Establishment of the Independent Advisory Group to advise GOAP on implementation of RAP and
also to examine complaints relating thereto and propose remedial measures.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 28 -



Institutional Provisions
1.     Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) shall establish and maintain:
(a)    a Project Steering Committee, whose mandate, terms of reference and composition shall be
acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for coordination among State-level departments
and agencies involved in the implementation of the Project; and
(b)    a District Forest Committee, whose mandate, terms of reference and composition shall be
acceptable to the Association, to be responsible for coordination among District-level government
departments and agencies involved in the implementation of the Project.
2.     GOAP shall:
(a)    designate FD to be responsible for the implementation of the Project under the overall leadership of
the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests;
(b)    establish and thereafter maintain a Project Monitoring Unit (PMU) to be responsible for overall
monitoring, evaluation and coordination of the Project, including development of the annual work
program and budget, implementation and monitoring of social and environmental safeguard
provisions, production of annual and quarterly progress reports and financial statements, and
coordination of procurement activities and disbursement requests;
3.     GOAP shall take steps to ensure that:
(a)    PMU   shall be headed by a Project Director, who shall be the Chief Conservator of
Forests/Additional Chief Conservator of Forests, and who shall be supported by three
Conservators of Forests, one each for CFM, M&E and Procurement six Deputy/Assistant
Conservator of Forests, one each for Social Development, CFM, M&E and Procurement, an
accounts officer, and other suitably qualified and experienced support staff in adequate numbers;
and
(b)    the positions referred to in sub-para. (i) above, shall be kept filled at all times by persons having
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
4.     GOAP shall ensure that in the case of every eligible village:
(a)    a VSS shall be established and maintained to assist and participate in the preparation and
implementation of the Micro-plan.
(b)    the VSS shall be managed by a managing committee, whose mandate, composition and TOR shall
be acceptable to GOAP and the Association;
(c)    all proceeds of the Credit accruing to the VSS to finance the implementation of micro-plan shall be
channeled though a Govemment/VSS joint account to be managed and operated jointly by the
chairperson, and vice-chairperson of the VSS managing Committee, and a duly appointed
representative of FD; and
(d)    a village advisory council, whose mandate, composition and terms of reference shall be acceptable
to GOAP and the Association, shall be established and maintained to advise the VSS and assist in
conflict resolution.
- 29 -



Implementation, Reporting and Review Obligations
5.1    GOAP shall adopt in form and substance acceptable to the Association:
(i)    a Project Implementation Plan, giving details of all operational guidelines and procedures
as shall have been agreed with the Association for the irnplementation, monitoring and
supervision of the Project, including administrative, accounting and financial management
procedures, procurement and disbursement arrangements, performance indicators,
monitoring and evaluation guidelines, and guidelines and procedures to ensure strict
compliance with social and environmental safeguard measures and reporting obligations
thereunder; and
(ii)   guidelines for the preparation, review and approval of Micro-plans, including roles and
responsibilities, and criteria, for the review and approval of Micro-plan proposals,
administrative, accounting and financial management procedures, procurement and
disbursement arrangements, performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation guidelines,
and procedures to ensure strict compliance with social and environmental safeguard
measures and reporting obligations thereunder, as well as model forms of the memorandum
of understanding.
5.2    GOAP shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out in the PIP and the
Micro-plan Guidelines, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any
provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
6.     GOAP shall submit to the Association. for its review or approval. as the case may be:
(a)    not later than one month after the effective date, and thereafter not later than April 30 of each year,
a proposed annual work program and budget for the forthcoming Fiscal Year;
(b)    annual and semi-annual progress reports on the status of the Project, to be submitted not later than
two months after the end of the relevant reporting period;
(c)    project management reports should be submitted quarterly in accordance with arrangements agreed
with the Bank.
(d)    reports as needed on the award of individual contracts under the Project;
(e)    semi-annual procurement reports giving details of:
(i)   revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the Project;
(ii)  revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award and
completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii)  status of compliance with aggregate limits on prescribed procurement procedures.
7.     GOAP shall not later than June 30, 2005 undertake, in conjunction with the Borrower and the
Association, a MTR, during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters relating to
the progress of the Project, and the performance by GOAP of its obligations under this Agreement,
- 30 -



including the progress achieved in the implementation of Micro-plans, and the status of compliance
with social and environmental safeguard measures, having regard to the monitoring indicators
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(a)    Not later than one month prior to the MTR, GOAP shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, a report, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and
status of the Project, and giving details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed at such
review.
(b)    Following the review, GOAP shall undertake act promptly and diligently in order to take any
corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the imnplementation of the
Project, or to implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
8.     Social and Environmental Safeguard Measures
(a)    GOAP shall take steps to comply with the EMP, RAP, TDP and PMP in accordance with the
guidelines, time table and other specifications set forth in the EMP, RAP, TDP and PMP
respectively and to ensure compliance with the relevant Village specific RAP and village-specific
TDP, if any, in accordance with the guidelines, time tables and other specifications set forth in
each such Village-specific RAP and Village-specific TDP, respectively.
(b)    GOAP shall cause FD and its PMU to collect, compile and submit regular reports as part of
annual and semi-annual report detailed in para. 5 (b) above on the status of compliance with social
and environmental safeguard measures, giving details of measures taken in furtherance of the
EMP, RAP, TDP and PMP, and the Village-specific RAP and Village-specific TDP, conditions, if
any, which interfere or threaten to interfere with the smooth implementation of such EMP, RAP,
TDP and PMP, and each such Village-specific RAP and Village-specific TDP, and remedial
measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
9.     For the purpose of facilitating preparation of Micro-plans, GOAP may cause NGOs to be engaged
in accordance with procedures and criteria agreed with the Association, and specified in the PIP.
H. Readiness for Implementation
OI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Dl 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 31 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
1;,  Irshad A. Khan                    Constance A. Bernard          wKEwnLim
Team Leader                       SectorDirector                    Country Manager/Director
- 32 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sector-related GAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Soctorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support of critical pro-poor  Increases in average  Household surveys          Sector indicators relate
interventions that promote  household income over time  Rapid Rural Assessments  directly to Bank mission of
more efficient delivery    and distribution among                              poverty alleviation
mechanisms, entrench       vulnerable groups.        Regular project reports
beneficiary participation and                        including impact evaluation
strengthen the rural safety net Non-monetary welfare  reports and ICR
through measures that include indicators.
the deepening of a rural base. Decline in seasonal migration State poverty monitoring and
for employment            human development reports
Project Development        Outcome I Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Rural poverty reduced       Number of functioning VSS  Survey of VSS and review of Government's commitment to
through improved forest     undertaking forest        their records            participatory forest
management with community   management tasks according                         management and sharing
participation               to microplans and operating  Review of Project Quarterly  arrangements of future
according to their covenants  and Semi-annual reports  harvests does not change.
and agreed procedures.
Third party monitoring and Prices for forest products will
Regular meetings of MC and  evaluation              not decline substantially
GB of VSS
Increases in NTFP incomes
(in cash and kind) realized
by VSS members resulting
from improved forest
productivity.
Short-term VSS revenues
and emplQyment realized
from forest management
operations.
Re-investment by VSS in
forest areas from generated
funds.
- 33 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:        ProJect reports:           (from Outputs to ObJective)
Component:
Strengthened legal,         New GO on CFM in place    Review of published Govt.
institutional and policy                              documents                  Naxallites do not disrupt
framework;                  Legal status accorded to VSS                         VSS operation
through amendment to AP    Review of Project progress
Forest Act 1967            reports/MIS documentation  Satisfactory motivation level
of frontline staff
New AP State forest policy  Review of forest working
in place;                  plans and micro-plans     Emergence of strong local
leadership
GCC marketing monopolies   Third party monitoring and
and restriction of value   evaluation                Adequate district level
addition relaxed and                                 intersectoral coordination
replaced with competitive  Field surveys
marketing;                                   .       NGOs' support is
Interpretation of satellite  constructive
Legal framework established  imageries in APFD GIS
to enable coordination     Center
between PRIs and VSS
Biannual report of Forest
survey of India
Recurring inventory by
measuring of sample plots
Review of research
documnentation
VSS prepared and capable to  Micro-plans prepared
assume forest management   through participatory
tasks;                      planning conforming to
revised forest working plans
covering all CFM areas;
No. of VSS members trained
in silviculture, modemn
nursery practices, SMC
activities; book keeping and
financial management,
conflict resolution;
Community infrastructure
provided;
Improved/ rehabilitated forest  Area coverage- Teak forests,
resources within CFM areas  Non-teak hardwoods,
Bamboo forests, Red sanders
forests, Teak and Bamboo
mixed forests, Non-teak and
Bamboo mixed forests,
NTFP/SRWP, Medicinal
plantations, NWFP and
Fodder grasses,
- 34 -



Area of Community land
planted,
No. of seedlings planted
through Group farm forestry,
Percentage of planting
material from modem
nursery techniques.
Hectares Increase in forest
cover
Improved mean annual
increment in treated areas in
different forest types.
Increased production and
harvesting of wood, bamboo
and NTFP in CFM areas
Applied Forest Research and  No. of Research Projects
Extension carried out      implemented;
No. of interactive seminars
for dissemination of research
findings conducted;
No. of technology
dissemination and extension
centers functional
NGOs skill enhanced for   No. of NGOs involved in
working with VSS          CFM implementation;
No. of NGOs trained in
modem silvicultural
techniques, nursery practices,
SMC works, social
mobilization, gender issues,
conflict resolution
Prioritized Social and    No. of PRAs conducted
Economic needs of VSS
Supported                 No. of site specific
micro-plans prepared
Village infrastructure
improvement works carried
out in Tribal and non tribal
VSs
Alternate livelihood support  No. of persons trained in
provided                  IGAs in Tribal and non tribal
VSS
- 35 -



Assistance provided for IGA
in IGAs in Tribal and non
tribal VSS
No. of PAFs supported with
R&R grant
No. of PAFs supported for
land development
No. of PAFs trained in IGAs
No. of PAFs provided with
IGSs
Enhanced women's          No. of women chairpersons in
participation             VSS
Proportion of women in
Managing Committees
No. of Women Community
Volunteers participating in
CFM
Attendance of women in MC
meetings
No. of women trained and
supported through income
generation activities
- 36 -



!.      ta     bj8     'sg .',  c                                      1            _      u
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                        Outputs)
A. Enabling Environment for US$22.19 million        Review of Bank           Motivation of front line staff
CFM developed                                       disbursement records     to acquire skills needed for
Capacity Building of                                                         their job
implementing agency,                                Review of procurement
community groups and                                                          Strong local leadership
NGOs;                                               Review of annual AG audits  within VSS
Project Management, M&E,
Communication                                       Six monthly project      Inter-sectoral coordination
progress reports         facilitated by District Forest
Committees
B. Forest Management      US$79.86 million
Forest rehabilitation,
Agroforestry, NTFP, fodder
development, soil and
moisture conservation);
Forestry Planning and
Inventory; Research and
Extension
C. Community Development US$23.57 million
Microplan preparation,
Community infrastructure
development; Income
generation activities including
processing and marketing
wood and non-wood products;
Tribal development and
economic rehabilitation plan
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Please see PIP for details
By Component:
Project Component I - US$22.19 million
1. Enablins Environment for Community Forest Management (CFM)
The objective of this component is to develop a conducive environment for community forest management
thereby improving livelihoods and reducing poverty. This will require changes in the policy regime, the
regulatory framework, and institutional and organizational processes. This project financed component
would include the following activities:
(a)    Capacity Building of Implementing Agency. The capacity building strategy for APFD is a
three fold one : (i) training of staff at all levels; (ii) delegation of enhanced administration and financial
front line staff and (iii) releasing the unproductive time of staff by simplification of paper work. Training
particularly for the front line staff to adapt to the changing role as facilitators as well as regulators would
receive emphasis. Training in village level micro planning (including environmental and pest management
plan, tribal development plan and resettlement action plan) and financial management as well as technical
aspects of forestry applicable to the site specific forest development and management would be imparted to
the front line staff. For the middle executive level aspects like conflict resolution, continuous monitoring,
extension methodologies and applied forest research would be given importance. For the senior executives
specialized training like GIS, extension strategies, change management and organization development,
would be emphasized.
Empowerment of front line staff would be facilitated through assignment of individual
responsibilities to the beat officers. More financial powers would be delegated to the section officers and
beat officers. A study would be carried outfollowed by action in respect of redistribution of the duties
of the front line staff in tune with their emerging role. A study group/committee has been constitutedfor
revising the existing procedures requiring repetitive paper work and releasing the unproductive time of
front line staff The recommendations of this committee would be implemented by APFD/GOAP.
Performance counseling system would be strengthened and systems for recognition of better performance
introduced.
Project would support strengthening of Andhra Pradesh Forestry Academy at Dullapalli, Andhra
Pradesh School of Forestry at Yellandu and three Regional Centers at Warangal, Rajahmundry and
Tirupathi in respect of audio-visual equipment and training halls for imparting training to the front line
staff of the APFD and VSS office bearers and NGOs members on financial, environmental, social and
technical aspects of the program. Annual Training Plans would be drawn up by Conservator, Training and
Education and reviewed periodically utilizing the feedback from the field. It would also support
management studies and the HRD/HRM planning process. It would include both in country and overseas
short courses and study tours. The project would provide support for AP Forest Academy at Dullapally by
strengthening infrastructure, training equipment and material. strategy with a view to assist APFD with
dissemination of information to stakeholders to enhance transparency and accountability and strengthening
of its extension capacity including publicity campaigns; preparation of case studies; dissemination of
findings and preparation of communication material.
- 38 -



(b)     Community Institutions Capacity Building. The Capacity Building for the cornmunity would
consist of three strategic elements- financial management, conflict resolution, planning and decision
meeting. This will be achieved by (i) Devising simple fonnats for micro planning and financial
management and training the VSS members with the help of NGOs; (ii) workshops to discuss problems and
exchange experiences among VSS at the local and state levels; and (iii) effective extension messages
through print and electronic media to all VSS members and study tours to observe successful practices and
adopt them. Comprehensive manuals and brochures to help and motivate VSS members for CFM
implementation would be prepared through outsourcing to professional agencies.
(c)     Project Management. The Project support would be available for project monitoring and
evaluation, studies and consultancies, maintenance of computerization hardware, stationery, travel
expenses procurement and financial management, communication and data base management, provision
of vehicles, office expenses , etc. A sound computer based MIS including project finance management
system would be supported by the project to help monitor project implementation.
(d)    Policy Development. The project would support activities relating to policy development in the
forest sector including conducting studies on critical policy issues that influence the overall sector
performance; implementation of new enabling legislation, conducting workshops and meetings for
stakeholder consultations on proposed reforms and for dissemination of findings. The studies would assist
in identifying specific problems that constrain further improvements in the sector, throw light on needed
adjustments and indicate options. Among the key areas that require attention include costlbenefit sharing
arrangements for CFM and, marketing of forest products. A matrix indicating the key issues that affect
forestry sector and proposed actions has been agreed by GOAP/APFD for implementing institutional
reforms (Annex 2, Attachment 2).
(e)    Monitoring and Evaluation. M&E would be used as a key instrument for tracking project
imnplementation progress and also to serve as a useful feedback information to all stakeholders. The overall
M&E activity will be undertaken at three levels: (a) The FD, will obtain quarterly progress reports from
all field units, analyze and develop quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports; (b) independent, concurrent
monitoring and evaluation by a third party with contractual arrangements; and (c) evaluation study prior to
MTR and implementation completion review. The data generated through the monitoring and evaluations
would be analyzed and stored using a computer based existing MIS package to be further developed by the
FD. The monitoring function would be undertaken by the FD in partnership with the communities and the
civil society.
Project Component 2 - US$79.86 million
2. Forest Management
The objective of this component is to improve forest management and increase the returns to the
community. The project would focus on improving the productivity and sustainability of the forest
ecosystems, both degraded and well stocked. The component would attempt to increase the quantun of
produce on a per hectare basis through investments in protection and regeneration of forest lands and
improvements in technology and infonnation. The component will finance the following interventions:
(a)    Silvicultural Treatments of Forests and Social Foresty. A series of treatments will be used to
improve the productivity of largely degraded forests on a sustainable basis. These include promotion of
natural regeneration from existing rootstocks, rejuvenation of bamboo clumps, and the conversion of scrub
- 39 -



forest into plantations of non-timber forest products, short-rotation wood products, medicinal plants and
fodder. A total of 315,800 ha is planned to be covered with such treatments under the project. In addition,
the project will provide for the maintenance and tending of a further 70,000 ha of forest for which
treatments were initiated prior to the project. The management objective for each forest site will be decided
by the FD in consultation with the VSS which  will determine specific treatment prescriptions.
Consideration will be given to obtaining early harvesting returns so as to assist the cash flow of the VSSs
and their financial self sufficiency. Promotion of NTFP and small wood production will assist towards this
objective. Existing treatment practices will be used, however, these will be modified based on field
experience and research funded under the project to study the dynamics of different forest types under the
various treatments. The establishment of selected medicinal plants will be done on a trial basis initially,
while market acceptance, quality parameters, the economics of production, treatment and transportation is
examined. Support will also be given for the provision of seedling and establishment of plantations for
VSS and non VSS communities on community and private land outside the forests.
(b)  Forest Inventory and Management Planning.   The project will support the design and
undertaking of a full scale inventory of all production forests in Andhra Pradesh during the fourth year of
the project. The inventory design will consider the dynamics of the degraded forest being treated through
VSSs and the need to establish reliable estimates of NTFPs, small timber and the regeneration potential.
Design of permanent sample plots for periodic measurement of forest growth and yield potential will be
included. New working plans for all districts are currently being drawn up using reconnaissance inventory
data. Provision has been made to ensure that micro-plans to be prepared for all VSS, using baseline
forestry data, will be compatible with these working plans.
(c)    Applied Research and Extension. To facilitate two-way communication between researchers and
VSS members the project would support upgradation of one central nursery per district (14 in all) to the
status of Technology Dissemination Centers. Important advances in expanding the availability and use of
improved planting material were made during the AP Forestry Project. Investments under this project
would be designed to consolidate and expand the benefits achieved to date.
(d)    Forest Management Information System. The project would finance development (or purchase)
of a state-of-the-art Forest Management Information System (FMIS). Under this initiative the APFD will
implement a fully integrated FMIS incorporating all aspects of forest management - protection, inventory,
planning, financial management, physical and environmental monitoring, and evaluation as well as all
aspects of marketing timber and non-timber forest products. GIS will be fully integrated into the new
system. This approach represents a marked departure from earlier efforts to develop a management
information system that was intended primarily as a monitoring tool and will require a careful review of the
capabilities and modes of operation of FMIS at the cutting edge of this rapidly evolving field. To facilitate
further decision-making regarding FEMIS development an initial intensive learning phase will be undertaken,
during which the APFD will: (a) establish a learning partnership with public sector forest management
agencies that have already developed and deployed F1I1S; and (b) contract consultant services to evaluate
the present state of FMIS development in AP and to make recommendations on options for further
development of software, hardware, and networking during the project period. Development of a website
for APFD and Community Forest Management (CFM) will also be supported under this component
(e)    Environmental Management Plan and Pest Management Plan. The project would support
implementation of an EMP to enhance positive and mitigate and adverse environmental impacts which may
possibly be caused due to project activities. As the proposed EMP activities are central or core to the
micro-plan and would be implemented through the proposed micro-plan budgets, no major additional
-40 -



investment is expected specifically for the EMP. However, some limited funding will be provided by the
project for training, research and awareness related specifically to the EMP. The activities, schedules,
institutional arrangements, M&E indicators and strategy, and costs has been mainstreaned into the project
design. Separate detailed EMP and PMP have been prepared which are in PIP and project files.
Project Component 3 - USS 23.57 million
3. Community Development
The objective of this component is to assist the VSS in planning and developing community infrastructure
and enhancing opportunities for income generation and skill development among the most marginalized
groups. Support to engage NGOs and community women volunteers would also be provided. During the
process micro-plan preparation, the VSS would identify the most marginalized individuals or households in
the village who would be eligible for participation in income generation activities. The activities would be
group based, and would include NTFP processing, other non-farm activities such as fisheries, local crafts,
apiculture, etc. The project would support training and purchasing equipment or material for selected
income generating activities. The project would also finance a tribal development plan and a resettlement
plan to mitigate adverse social impacts due to the project implementation, if any. The project supported
activities would include the following:
(a)    Community Forest Management (CFM) Support. This subcomponent would include the
following activities:
(i) Micro plan preparation. The project would support preparation of a micro-plan for each VSS
by revisiting and revising an existing one or preparing a new micro-plan. This would require developing
detailed guidelines for the preparation and approval of micro plans. No investment under the project would
be made unless satisfactory micro plans are prepared and approved by the concerned divisional forest
officer (DFO).
(ii) Support to NGOs/ Community Organizers and Women Volunteers. NGOs would be
engaged to facilitate planning, implementing and monitoring micro plans. In places where NGOs are not
available, Community Facilitators will be engaged for the same purpose. In addition, in each VSS a woman
volunteer will be selected from among the VSS members to enhance women involvement in planning and
implementing project interventions at the VSS level.
(b)    Village development:  Development of limited physical and social infrastructure would be
undertaken to enhance community participation in the project, strengthen the rapport between the Forest
Department and the VSS and to engage the community on issues related to forest management. The assets
developed with Project funds would be accessible and beneficial to the entire village. These investments
would only complement the efforts of other government agencies in the village and not duplicate their
activities. Group-based economic actvities will be undertaken to improve livelihood opportunities of those
people who voluntarily surrendered forest land for JFM activities after a VSS was constituted. The basis
for funding would be the TDP/village development plan as part of micro-plan prepared by the community.
Some of the activities that would be funded include drinking water facilities, approach road, village
sanitation and drainage, school building, community hall, village tank, etc.
(c)    Tribal Development Plan. The project would support a tribal development strategy to address not
only the issue of customary rights of local population on minor forest produce but also the issues relating to
-41 -



head loaders and other forest dependent communities. Based on the strategy, VSS communities would
prepare tribal development plans as part of micro plans to be implemented with project support. This
sub-component would include activities like, capacity building, exposure visits, training for economic
activities, community asset development and income generating activities (at both individual and group
levels), if any. Budget required for engaging NGO/CO and Women Community Volunteers, engaging
M&E agency and other establishment cost will come from other components of the project.
(d)    Resettlement Action Plan. The project would finance the implementation of GOAP's resettlement
policy focusing on the economic rehabilitation of the project affected persons who have encroached forest
land or are practicing shifting cultivation (podu). All mitigation measures proposed would form the base
to prepare VSS level resettlement plans to restore the livelihood of the families affected. The project will,
however, offer a package of assistance to ensure that those affected are helped to restore their livelihood.
Specific entitlements that would be available to the identified affected families are as follows:
*      Skill training for income generating (IG) activities
*      Productive Asset Grant (up to Rs. 25, 000) for IG activities
*      Access to institutional credit for using financial assistance for IG activities
*      Support from District Industries Center (DIC), Khadi and Village Industries Corporation (KVIC)
*      Access to govenmuent programs for socio-economic development
Besides the above provisions, all affected families will be provided counseling and support in identifying
suitable alternate livelihood and as well as in ensuring forward and backward linkages. Families taking up
non-farm activities will also be guided in procuring the required raw material and marketing the finished
products.
-42-



ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project
GOAP Implementation Letter
GOvflM       T OF ANDURtA PADESH
ENVIRON     M     FORESTS SC1NCE & TECHNOLOGY (FOR nl) DEPAXRTMENT
Letter No. 301 I/For WIf2002-1                          Valedz 28.05.2002
Srt H.S. Brabma lAS,
Peincipal'Soctatry w Go  _-.
EFS&T Departmnt, Govt, of AP.
To.
Mr. Edwin Wim
Country Diretor
The World Bank,
Now Dethi
Dea Sir,
Sub: Forest Depamteme - AP. Cimnutrmlty Forest Managemetit2 Oct - Reg.
In the context of discussions betwcen the C3overnent of of, A, the
GoveIwcnt of Andln. Pradcsh,(tzidia) and,11A wt rept Ihe pAip6d   AP'
Community Fores   MAement PrtIect, for wbhi           is s       IDA
assistance, we wish to pzoWd  the fotlown  COIiPiAO,s on btif of the
Govemnnent of Andhm Pradesh.
The A P Comnuniuty Foges' Maagmaent Project is a rouldw-n Project to the
A P Forestry Project, which wastfsnde& by the WoAdoIAk duting i9.4,- 2040
(cor4lude4 On 30iO SeplembEr. 200). The.A p Foteatry. Prjdea -ov4m'd 2,666
4ovcing thze whtwe of AndhrirPradeSit The pposed A P'POnmulwV Fores
Minageroent Project covers S  VS$W 'ii i4 districts of     Ptadeb The
proposed project has incorporated sofwuard, mcasuire to addess issues of
involuntary resettlement trbal developlfent and envlro*Mal manage:ment.
fluring negotiatdoer in view of a :rcdit in suppon of die pippoad projerCt
discusaions were held with regard to livelihtod Ioers 'ln the VSS 9 a were
covered under the A P Forcstry Prbjec: and the VSS. in the  ipt:te districts
lih Andln~a Prsi3X~i. The poaf0  o this  t  is r  cto,f*th 4 e   spoeiflc
outcnes,. an4 ihe policy ntatrii govaoil ithe implenieitation, of 't pcpbsed
-. htlushm
1. To ensure dtl diem are, nOl lItciveod loanes repuiting fromn r.liMishmnet
of fomest lapd. aoistance will be pmovi4ed to grosups wh' reinqU lei
forest tad during the AP F PorestriProjt (.whethr or, not thry were
supportd under the project):
-43 -



O  i Rl.~ 
1A1
I           '.IO  &19  tl9oA
id                          4~~~~~~~~~~~i



c. A maoitowing: mechaisn will be deveoped and kjln       at
Forest Divlslo level for monitoimg the impl        o Ie
RAP. This wil coawpris tepstowm       of l      Ihe Triba
Wdfti   Dcpautment and the Fohas Dep     an This oo _w o
wil1 mvttw SUl the wltwr       i t     lv by., VSS  _
voluntazily =nrOIs'a g  te_ aatoed land for iquqt Ui    use
by the VSS. This conitlimee will also niitar t je  *
d. OIOAP aGveeb to: ooastlte an lndeedt adviuoy woW pv*ma
andawe, copom  iin vnd Wm ortweim       wiIO be tea      to
the Asscadon, to adV*on the Iinplmzwo      a Of di ,.AP
c    x2amln  complaints mikStd  therto ian  preopae  _ mew
memop"s.
S. An addendwum   to -the Grwemuntt O0e      jn       0 Comnuny Pored
Mariatnwnt (dared t2 F*u4ary 2002) will be isued by he Sd" 3ui,
2063 clarifyiig ind-sinpli&ying dicuiuht aain8 _AwngeinnL
6. The Governmnt of Andhra Prdesh conQjrsuth  a mple of adcro-plans
prepaed under dte proposed projecitdurii ghe first 12 morlli alier credit
e   tiven    may be revwaew  by iDAjFor thiWprpose IIDA ,aye nwl
avangemne.s to.bites codsullart to review samp  Icto   and adise
the  ovem   cm ofAdhiih Praahb oa Identified w     e  or ,vision
as required.
7. GOAP tea fins its cormitenv 'to Implemen the aclJons. spWflc
outcomes outliied in this ICtc*'al the E1annl p6licy matrix.
8. OOAP un     nrsw   wand agreas that in maing avalIble,a crdit tp Suipport
the propos$4 poject, IDA lna> rely oi' stateM an  udr    ns.set
fonh here.
Yours
-45 -



ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project
Policy and Institutional Reform Matrix
1.Policy Aspectsl
I. Policy for    The Government of AP's policy for  Review the AP forest policy and adopt a  GOAP, APFD  Prior to
Forestry sector in  forest development issued in 1993  revised policy that has taken into account    negotiation
Andhra Pradesh.   is outdated.                    NFP 1988, AP Vision 2020 and NFAP
2000.
There is no mechanism for regular  Establish policy development group within APFD  Prior to
review and analysis of forest   APFD.                                              negotiation
policy.
1.2 Financial     Forestry sector suffers from    Ensure setting up of VSS revolving funds  GOAP, APFD  Prior to
constraints       inadequate budgetary support for  to finance reinvestments through issuance        negotiation
forest management               of GO authornzing VSS accounts and
transfer of CFM revenue for forest
development.
GOAP          3 1st December
Policy development group of APFD                   2003
will explore options and
altematives for resource
mobilization and make
recommendations to GOAP.
1.3 Collection,   Lack of a well defined strategy for  Conduct a study and prepare a plan of  APFD   31 st December
processing and     NTFP management including      action on the basis of recommendations.            2002
marketing of NTFP  production and non-destructive
harvesting.
Liberalize trade m NTFPs and improve  GOAP         31st March 2003
Low income and earning capacity of market infommation
forest dwellers from NTFP because
of GCC monopoly reduces the     Remove restriction on NTFP processing.
number of legal buyers and chokes
the free flow of goods.
1.4 Conmunity     GOAP's order of 1996 on         Revise GO in consultation with various  GOAP       Prior to
participation and  JFM needs revision to facilitate  stakeholders and the Bank.                       negotiation
CFM                transition to CFM approach
1.5 Forest        Sanctioned working plans do not  APFD should prepare revised working  APFD         31 st March 2003
Management and     exist in the project area. As a result plans in accordance with its policy.
Planning           harvesting operations cannot be
carried out.
1.6 Farn forestry  Restrictions on tree felling, transit,  Review policies on restrictions on tree  GOAP, APFD  31 st December
marketing.         trade and marketing information  felling in private lands,                         2002
constrain farm / agro forestry from
reaching its optimum potential.  Rationalize transport and trade barriers.
Simplify procedure for non-exempted
species.
2. Legal Aspects
2.1 Legal backing  AP forest pohcy for participatory  Suitably amend the AP Forest act 1967 to  GOAP, APFD  31st December
for CFM           forest management is not legally  provide legal framework for CFM.                  2003
enforceable.
2.2 Panchayat     Possibility of competing claims for  Notify rules under the amended A. P.  GOAP     31 st December
-46 -



laws and CFM       the share of benefits from the same  Panchayat Act 1994 to ensure that           2002
resources by the Gram Panchayat  Panchayats do not undermine VSS.
and Gram Sabha under the A. P.
Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 and VSS
under CFM.
2.3 Cultivation of  The cultivation of medicinal plants  A clarification or prior approval of MOEF  GOI, GOAP  31 st December
medicinal plants  is not allowed without prior    (GOI) should be obtained by the                   2002
approval of the GOI under the  GOAP/APFD before taking up cultivation
Forest Conservation Act 1980.  of medicinal plants in the forests areas.
2.4 NTFP p     .cessing Legal framework discourages the  Review and amend AP Scheduled Area  GOAP   30th June 2003
and trade          value addition to NTFPs by the  MFP (Regulation of Trade) Regulation
tribal community.               1979 to remove restrictions on NTFP
collection, transportation and value
addition at village level.
3. Instltutional:
3.1 Role and       Lack of adequate delegation of  Conduct a study to look into delegation of GOAP, APFD  31st December
function of Forest  financial and administrative powers financial and administrative powers and     2002
Department        to frontline staff. Present     workload among the staff and formulate
distribution of workload of FD staff action plan based on recommendations and
is not suitable for implementing  implement it.
policy of CFM.
3.2 Intersectoral  Inadequate lmkages between    Initiate monitoring of existing mechanisms APFD    31 st December
Coordination       agencies/departments doing simnlar  for coordination among various government    2002
work. Village development requires agencies at state district and division levels
support from many agencies.    and review the efficacy of coordination.
3.3 Involvement of  Lack of clarity for           Develop mechanisms and criteria for  GOAP, APFD   Prior to
non-FD institutions  NGO/NGI/University involvement.  greater NGO, and other civil society          negotiations
in CFM                                            involvement in CFM.
3.4 Research &     Research Plan prepared in the past  Revise the research plan using priority  GOAP, APFD  Prior to
Extension         is outdated.                    setting methodology and also develop              negotiations
mechanisms for identifying applied
research questions.
3.5 Monitoring and  Monitoring and Evaluation system  Prepare a detailed monitoring and  APFD       30th September
Evaluation        in FD is weak not allowing learning evaluation plan.                              2002
opportunities
Need to develop an effective M&E  Third party monitoring and evaluation
system                         agency in place
-47 -



ANNEX 2
Attachment 3
PROJECT MONITORING UNIT-ORGANIZATION CHART
Ptvject DirectorJ
CCF CFM
Read of PMU
Rasagd                        CF M    i m d|g        CF Pranma|t CF CFM                 eiCic 
bunsim  MXCch                      Rhti                               I 
I
PyCFJACrF' O)        Dy C/AC.'s .(1)      DyCFSACF's O2
FPO (3)
Rages, SOdkl DtV
FD  VSS - NGO6
A)P. Comud' Farst MmAgmiut        RM6bMe    I ad           Sptciul D iulopet, 4U5-&, sudla
Pwj.n (0f & EI, Faust Policy,     Proc3amnt, Amdh, cash   ad visits, Md,  Os, Tubal
Pj.se p   rapion jud, hAul        accouts, pues  epct|    D     _a5m.  ITDA, uctiv to VSS,
BaI ad AEmI Pbm, M & E                                    RAP, EDP, P)fl, pFopass npmt d d
nlad npts, hgil  ,  Pad
JRZ Act, Socikl Au-k md FDA
-48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost by Component                                (USS Mlillion)
Local   Foreign   Total
A. ENABUNG ENVIRONMENT FOR COMMUNITY
FOREST MANAGEMENT
Capacity Building of Govt Agencies                   2 76    0 94     3.70
Capacity Building of Community and NGOs              3.05    0 31     3.36
Project Management                                  13 55    0.00    13.55
Subtotal ENABLING ENVIRONMENT FOR COMMUNITY           19 36    1.25    20.61
FOREST MANAGEMENT
B. FOREST MANAGEMENT
Forest Treatment                                    58.36       -    58.36
Social Forestry                                      1.16       -      1.16
Planning & Inventory                                 4.26    1.49     5.75
Applied Research                                     4.45       -     4.45
NWFP & Medicinal Plant Development                   2 26       -     2 26
Subtotal FOREST MANAGEMENT                            70.48    1 49    71.97
C. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
CFM Support                                          7.40       -     7 40
Village Development Support                          2.77       -      2.77
Tribal Development Plan                              6.03       -      6.03
Resettlement Action Plan                             5.78       -     5.78
Subtotal COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                        21 98       -    21.98
D. PROJECT PREPARATION ACTIVITIES                      1.50    1.50      1.50
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                  113.32    4.24    116.06
Physical Contingencies                               2 14       -     2.14
Price Contingencies                                  8.73    0.19     8.92
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  124.18    4.43    127.11
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                                               127.11
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$ m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 125 (US$ m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is
80% of total project cost net of taxes
-49 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Approach
The impacts of proposed forest management activities upon VSS in different forest areas constitute the
primary focus of the project analysis. The impacts considered include both changes in the value of
non-timber forest products (NTFP) collected from managed areas and changes in accrued community
revenues.
The analysis assumes that the collection of non-timber forest products and firewood directly benefit
individual households of a VSS either from own consumption or sale. The analysis does not indicate what
proportion of average household collection of these products would actually be realised as a cash income.
Household conditions appear to vary widely within the project area, and so it is not initially possible to
determine on average how large a cash income households derive from sales from such products and
firewood; although, the individual models discussed below may provide an indication, particularly if one
adopts as a working assumption that households on average would annually each consume about one cubic
meter of firewood.
The analysis does assume that income from sales of harvested poles, small timber, pulp wood and timber
is realised as cash revenue to the VSS. This revenue might be used for community development and so
indirectly benefit VSS households, or, if decided by the VSS, distributed among members and so directly
contribute to household welfare. This VSS income is realised somewhat irregularly because of differing
schedules of operations on newly treated and existing treated land. The analysis therefore estimates the
average total present value of such VSS-pooled incomes per household over the period of the analysis, and
the average annual VSS income per household realised over the period (in constant October 2001 values).
The separation of household income from NTFP and firewood collection from VSS income realised from
the sales of poles, small timber, pulp wood and timber allows the analysis to consider at which point
various VSS should be able to achieve financial sustainability. The definition of sustainability in the
analysis is the capability of VSS to receive and transfer sufficient income from one period to the next to
finance forest management operations (including the cost of surveillance and protection) and still realise a
surplus for village development or redistribution. The forest models demonstrate that this in general should
be achievable within six years of the proposed project's start.
It should also be noted that the costs to the VSS of surveillance and protection would generally represent
cash remuneration to individuals within the community. Ideally, the landless or other economically
disadvantaged households within the community would benefit from these employment opportunities.
The analysis developed the following financial models for VSS according the dominant forest type/land
development strategy with which they would be associated:
teak forest
non-teak hardwoods forest
bamboo forest
mixed teak and bamboo forest
mixed non-teak hardwoods and bamboo forest
forest of teak with NTFP plantings
forest of non-teak hardwoods with NTFP plantings
- 50 -



plains areas reforested with NTFP plantings, fodder grasses and medicinal plants
slopes reforested with NTFP and small timber plantings
*      red sanders forest
Descriptions of these forest types and land treatments are provided elsewhere in pre-appraisal's
documentation.
The analysis of the project aggregates net benefits accruing directly to households and to VSS by the
number of each VSS forest type. The next table is a summary of the numbers of VSS of each type and the
areas included in the analysis.
Table 1. Number and Areas of VSS by Forest Type
AmaTr       b    lurs  kzetr              K
AaaTrsd      AhotuA  AmaT,d AuaTrd Tdi              AewaTre
TdcAm       uhotA    riect %d  Wil PRed w  Rtc % TeiBdm    h MRlecd %
FanType         'k1rS      Oa))    R*d J*    TcdaAm       0n)     dTdalAie  F'ir  a) dTcd kA
TekFaesMtbl                1813   ?88         18333       33%      115XIa      21%    2           53%
NonTeek Fcrst              422    1C93        23302       21%      75:l        69/   98X3        900/0
orbC                       503    101452      43)         4B%      3X000       34%     84800      84%
TerTtbco                    63     227CB       4879       21%       19000      W/%    19B         88%
NonTedBarto                331     97090      24480       2D/O     zmo         2D/o  49480       51%
Ted*iTrP                    193    5162        17733      34%         55Y'o            4373 89?/
Non-TeNTFP                 437     64644      4274        f         11000      17%     5374       83Yo
NTFPFddfie    bid Plar     374     815B5      2           35%       3900        5%     3234 0%
NTFm       Tnber           681    1713Q8      97618       57Yo      500         3%   1C18        EO%
REd Sars                   183     53136       183)3      34%      5mml         9%/o   Z3303      44%
TCd                       5MM    131246D      41          370/o    315900      24%    801         61%
It is evident from the preceding table that an analysis of VSS participating in the proposed project would
account for benefits and costs arising from existing treated forest areas under their management.  The
treatment of VSS sustainability in the analysis does account for areas treated under the previous
Bank-financed forest development project. One of the conclusions of the analysis is that with the project
VSS financial sustainability can occur much sooner than without the project - that is, at the current level of
forest development realised per VSS - and so the incentive to VSS to continue participation in community
forest management would be much stronger with the project. The analysis of the proposed forest
development under the project moreover indicates that it is cost effective to provide this incentive.
The period of analysis is thirty-five years. Values in the analysis are expressed in October constant rupees.
Financial Results
Details of the VSS forest models are provided in the attached tables. A summary of returns to households
and the average annual availability of revenue for VSS appears in Table 2 below.
As the table indicates, households of VSS falling under the forest models of non-teak, mixed teak and
bamboo, mixed non-teak and bamboo, and mixed teak and NTFP are expected to enjoy substantially higher
incremental benefits than households under other categories. This follows mainly from the fact that the
- 51 -



areas of treated forests of these VSS increase by a larger proportion than in the other forest models, and so
income from improved NTFP production and firewood from thinnings is proportionately higher. The
treated areas of the non-teak forest, for example, on average increase from 21 percent of the total area at
present and in the future without the project to 90 percent with the project. The project would finance the
treatment of about 69 percent of the non-teak forest VSS area. Similarly, with the project, 66 percent of
the mixed teak and bamboo forest VSS area would be treated as compared to 21 percent without the
project, and 26 percent of the mixed non-teak and bamboo forest in addition to the 25 percent treated
without the project. With the project the treated area of mixed teak forest and NTFP increases from 34
percent to about 85 percent. In contrast, the project would finance the treatment of approximately 21
percent of the teak forest VSS area to add to a base of 33 percent, and 17 percent of the mixed non-teak
forest and NTFP VSS area to add to a base of 66 percent. The NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal Plants and the
NTFP/Small Timber models involve small areas per VSS. The project also would expand the area of
bamboo by another 34 percent, adding to 49 percent of the VSS area already treated, but the increment in
income is realised primarily as revenue to the VSS through the sale of poles.
The non-teak, mixed teak and bamboo, mixed non-teak and bamboo, and mixed teak with NTFP VSS areas
also expected to see the largest increments in available VSS funds per household. Available VSS revenue
per household for the bamboo VSS also increases substantially - nearly doubling per household - for the
reason mentioned in the preceding paragraph. All forest types except for the NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal
Plants and the NTFP/Small Timber models, however, show significant increases in available VSS income
per household. The NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal Plants and the NTFP/Small Timber models, however, show
significant average direct benefits per household (in the form of household-harvested NTFPs, medicinal
plants and small timber and pulp wood) despite the small areas developed.
The Red Sanders forest model is peculiar. Most of the benefits that the VSS are expected to receive in the
form of revenues from timber sales will not be realised for fifty years following treatment. The value of the
timber at the time of final harvest, moreover, is rather speculative, being based on prices agreed in a few
intemational tenders for superior and inferior grades. There has been some recent interest in the
pharmacological properties of red sanders bark and heartwood, but it is unclear whether this prospect
played a role in the prices obtained in the tenders. The analysis uses a weighted average of superior and
inferior grade prices reported in the tenders for valuing the final timber harvest (about one third superior,
two thirds inferior).
Apart from possible retums in the distant future, other short-term incomes would need to sustain VSS
participation in red sanders areas. There will be some proceeds from three rounds of thinnings, which
could be used to finance surveillance and protection of the area, but perhaps not much in the way of surplus
funds for community development. Individually, however, VSS households would appear to obtain an
attractive return from the collection of NTFPs in the protected areas. This incremental household income
may be sufficient to sustain interest in community management; the appraisal of the project might look into
this area more closely than the pre-appraisal mission was able to do in its time in the field.
- 52 -



Table 2. Returns to Households and VSS Funds per Household by Forest Type
Average
Annual
NPV Incremental   Village  Average Annual
NTFP/Firewood   Funds per  Village Funds
Benefits per  Household  per Household
Household      Without    With Project
@12% (Rs)     Project (Rs)   (Rs)      Period for Averages
Teak Forest Model                      639       12448         21499  yr 4 through yr 35
Non-Teak Forest Model                12256        8567         42184  yr 4 through yr 36
Bamboo                                 234        6550         11250  yr 2 through yr 35
Teak/Bamboo                          26556        6543         32555  yr 4 through yr 35
Non-Teak/Bamboo                      13746        6539         15071  yr 2 through yr 35
TeaklNTFP                             8029       13350         33829  yr 4 through yr 35
Non-Teak/NTFP                         3596       19887         24488  yr 4 through yr 35
NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal Plants          4986        9446          9446  yr 4 through yr 36
NTFP/Small Timber                     2215        9037          9487  yr 6 through yr 35
Red Sanders                           2269        1508          2630  yr 7 through yr 35
The proposed investments are cost effective. The following table presents the returns estimated for each
forest/VSS type based on total net incremental benefits over the analysis period. Net incremental benefits
account for recurring maintenance costs and increases in timber harvest and collection costs of other forest
products.
Table 3. Returns to Forest Models
NPV
Forest Type             IRR     (Rs'000)*
Teak Forest Model                    29%   2227.65
Non-Teak Forest Model               27%    6592.25
Bamboo                              25%      745.64
Teak/Bamboo                         29%    9664.97
Non-Teak/Bamboo                     28%    2871.77
Teak/NTFP                            27%   4455.34
Non-Teak/NTFP                       22%     492.45
NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal Plants         18%     155.81
NTFP/Small Timber                   23%      178.65
Red Sanders                          15%     296.88 **
* Discounted at 12 percent.
**over 52 years
It should be noted that although the forest models show that the total present value of net household
benefits is expected to improve under the proposed project, in each case where untreated forest area
undergoes treatment (expect for the NTFP/Fodder/Medicinal Plants and the NTFP/Small Timber models)
there will be an incremental decrease in annual firewood collection. That is, although at various points in
the future households will have access to large harvests of firewood for own consumption and sale, they
- 53 -



will experience short-term reductions in the quantities of firewood that they would be permitted to collect.
For VSS members this would represent an annual loss of potential income and own consumption, for which
they would be compensated later. For non-VSS members presently benefiting from sales of firewood
collected in these VSS areas, the reduction in firewood supplies would need to be replaced in the market
from other sources, or demand would need to be reduced through conservation measures.  Proposed
project support for farm and community forestry outside VSS areas would help mitigate short-falls in local
firewood supply.
In aggregate the rate of return to forest development involving the identified 5,000 VSS is estimated at 27
percent. The present value of net incremental benefits of the development is estimated approximately RS
7,236 million discounted at 12 percent. These returns exclude other project costs and other project net
benefits from community/social forestry and project supported community development.
Net benefits from social forestry are excluded from the estimation of total project returns. This activity
represents a relatively small fraction of project costs and would not be critical for the overall quantified
performance of the project. Social forestry, however, is part of the project's approach to conflict
resolution. Although the direct physical benefits of social forestry occurring outside VSS areas might be
relatively small compared to rest of the project's forest development, the absence of this activity might
adversely affect the implementation of project's targeted community forest management.
The analysis also does not incorporate net benefits from the community development component The
activities falling under this component constitute about a fifth of the proposed project's total costs, and are
deemed to be crucial to the implementation strategy of the project's VSS forest development for the
incentives they provide and their role in conflict resolution. At this point, however, it is not possible to
define further nature of the activities that might be taken up, nor estimate their financial or economic
benefits.
In calculating the return to the project, the analysis considers two aggregates of other project costs. The
first (Project Costs I) includes the estimated investment costs of: (i) capacity building of government
agencies; (ii) capacity building of communities and NGOs and (iii) project management. Arguably these
cost elements more directly contribute to the proposed VSS forest development than those of the second
aggregate (Project Costs II), which includes: (i) expenditures on applied research; and (ii) costs for forest
management and planning.
For the analysis Project Costs I include a continuation of project management costs, at declining rate,
following the end of the implementation period (five years). Total Project Costs I are estimated in constant
terms to be about Rs. 1,190 million over the first ten years of the project. After taking these costs into
account, the return to the proposed VSS forest development is estimated at 22 percent, and its net present
value at Rs. 6,394 million.
Recurrent costs for research and forest management and planning are also included in the aggregate Project
Costs H. Full recurrent costs for applied research are continued for five years following the end of the
implementation period. Forest management and planning costs also continue for five years after the end of
the project, but at a declining rate. For the analysis these costs amount to approximately Rs. million 542
over the ten-year period considered. After accounting for these costs, the base IRR for the project is
estimated at 21 percent. The net present value of total net incremental benefits would amount to about Rs.
6,010 million.
- 54 -



On the basis of these estimations, the expected financial performance of the proposed project appears very
favourable. If the investment costs of the community development component (Village Asset Development)
were accounted against the above project's incremental net benefits, but not any possible community
development benefits, the IRR to the project would still be estimated at 19 percent and the project's NPV
would amount to about Rs. 5,199 million. The financial performance of the project is therefore not
expected to be sensitive, within reason, to variations in total project investment costs.
A sensitivity analysis of base project returns indicates that the variations in incremental investment costs
(establishment costs plus other project costs aggregated under Project Cost I and Project Cost II) and
benefits by as much as 20 percent are not expected to have a large impact on the project. Variations in
incremental recurrent costs do not appreciably affect the base IRR, and such effects are excluded from
results presented in the following table.
Table 4. Sensitivity Analysis of Financial IRR
Change in Base Project Investment costs
-20%      -10%       0%      10%       20%
-20%     20.3%    19.2%     18.3%    17.5%     16.8%
.C           -10%     21.9%    20.7%     19.7%    18.9%     18.1%
0)  4         0%     23.3%     22.1%    21.1%     20.1%     19.3%
w<, a) o     10%     24.7%     23.4%    22.3%     21.3%     20.4%
o    m        20%     26.0%    24.6%     23.5%    22.4%     21.5%
A delay by one year for realising base incremental net benefits from the forest development results in a
return to the project of about 19 percent and a NPV of approximately Rs. 4,408 million. A delay of two
years in base incremental net benefits lowers the IRR for the project to about 17 percent and reduces the
NPV to about Rs. 3,139 million.
Finally, it should also be noted that the analysis tends to underestimate funds available to community
development over time as the analysis has not estimated accrued interest on VSS funds that are retained
from one period to the next to finance forest operations.
Economic Results
The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project was estimated by treating all project outputs (except for
timber) as non-tradebles whose economic values can be estimated by applying a standard conversion factor
(SCF) of 0.9. The (VSS) farmgate value for timber was considered to represent adequately its economic
value. Establishment costs for the VSS forest development are almost entirely expenditures for labour, as
are the costs for maintenance, surveillance and protection. These expenditures were also converted to their
equivalent economic values with the use of the SCR. All other project costs are converted to their
economic values on the basis of their estimated direct and indirect foreign exchange content and their
portion of local costs, excluding taxes.  The local coat content of project costs, excluding taxes, were
converted to their economic values with the use of the SCF. Benefits of possible carbon sequestration were
at this point not included in the analysis.
- 55 -



The base ERR for the project is estimated at 21 percent, taking into account other project costs (I & II) as
described above. The results of the economic analysis mirror those of the financial in all other aspects as
well. Table 5 presents the sensitivity of the base ERR to variations in incremental benefits and investment
costs, including establishment costs.
Table 5. Sensitivity Analysis of ERR
Change in Base Project Investment costs
-20%      -10%       0%       10%      20%
-20%     20.2%     19.2%    18.3%     17.5%     16.8%
5C           -10%     21.8%    20.6%     19.7%     18.8%    18.0%
oD   v        0%     23.2%     22.0%     20.9%    20.0%     19.2%
10%     24.5%     23.3%    22.2%     21.2%     20.3%
co m m       20%     25.8%     24.4%    23.3%     22.3%    21.4%
The base economic NPV for the project is Rs. 5,763 million. A delay by one year for realising base
incremental net benefits from the forest development results in a return to the project of about 19 percent
and a NPV of approximately Rs. 4,222 million. A delay of two years in base incremental net benefits
lowers the ERR for the project to about 17 percent and reduces the NPV to about Rs. million 2,993.
If firewood had been valued on the basis of its caloric content and the import parity price for kerosene, the
results of the economic analysis for the project would be slightly higher than presented here. This
refinement would not had substantially more to an already strong argument for the project.
Summary of Beneflts and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
-56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4  | Year 5  I Year 6   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         19.8      28.9      33.4      22.5      10.8      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           2.2       2.3       2.4       2.4       2.4       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs       22.0       31.2      35.8      24.9      13.2      0.0       0.0
,Total Financing           22.0      31.2      35.8      24.9      13.2       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 9.9      21.6      28.5      25.9      22.1      0.0       0.0
Government               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneflciaries    0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0.      0.0
Total Project Financing    9.9.     21.6      28.5      25.9      22.1      0.0       0.0
IYearl I   Year 2  IYear 3     Year 4    YearS 5   Year 6  IYear 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
,Total Financing           0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Government               0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers           0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficlaries    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement Implementation Capacity
Andhra Pradesh has successfully implemented procurement for several Bank financed projects
such as Andhra Pradesh Economic Restructuring Project (APERP), Andhra Pradesh Hazard
Mitigation Project (APHMP), Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project (APSHP), Andhra Pradesh
District Poverty Initiative Project (APDPIP), and Andhra Pradesh Forestry Project (APFP).
Andhra Pradesh officials are thus, by and large, well conversant with the systems and procedures
to be followed for procurement in the Bank financed project. There have been isolated instances
where the procurement for certain items could not take place due to difficulties in evaluation.
But such instances are rare and cannot be considered as reflecting on the overall ability of the
officials of Andhra Pradesh. The Project is a follow-on project to the APFP (Cr. 2573-IN). The
procurement arrangements in the first project was considered satisfactory though there were
instances of delay in procurement of items like computers. Now the Andhra Pradesh Technology
Services (APTS) have acquired enough expertise in procurement of computers and related items
following Bank's procedures. Such items for this project will be procured through APTS. In
addition to procurement assistance needed by the Andhra Pradesh Forestry Department (FD) for
Procurement of computers, and allied equipment, the FD will need technical support for civil
works of Administrative Building at Hyderabad and at Forest Academy and Hostel Buildings at
Yellandu. The Public Works Department (PWD) will procure these works following Bank's
procedures. Another aspect is the change in approach from Governmental Implementation to
Community Participation in the implementation of the forestry program. This would require
capacity building of Communities and NGOs. Periodic workshops will be conducted throughout
the project period to build-up capacity of the communities and the NGOs.
Procurement methods (Table A)
All project activities financed under the Credit would be procured in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997,
and January 1999), in respect of Goods and Works. Consulting Services to be funded under the
Project would be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999. All civil works, goods and services, would be procured using India
specific Bank's model bidding documents. Domestic preference in ICB will be applicable.
Specific procurement arrangements summarized in Table A are as follows:
- 58 -



1. Works (US$80.71 million)
1.1 ForestManagementand Treatment Works (US$73.21 mUlion)
(a) Community Participation (US$68.65 million)
The Project seeks to improve Forest Management through Community Participation. These
include (i) Treatment of Forest over an area of 315,800 hectares for their improvement of
nurseries, land preparation, plantation, social forestry, and soil and water conservation
works; (ii) Income-generating activities such as known timber forest product, processing as
well as other known farm activities such as fisheries, local crafts, apiculture, etc.; (iii) Fodder
development - this activity will include pasture development (3,000 hectares), silvipastoral
development (1,500 hectare), fodder crops (500 hectares), and seed production. These
activities will be carried out through community participation by about 5,000 VSS in
accordance with para. 3.15 of the procurement guidelines and are estimated to cost
US$68.65 million. Forestry operation and related works for each village is estimated to cost
approximately US$20,000. The project also supports Community Infrastructure
Development - The works include items like drinking water facilities, approach roads,
village sanitation and drainage, school buildings, community hall, health center, etc. These
activities will be spread over 5,000 villages, and the maximum value under each contract for
community infrastructure is not likely to exceed US$2,000.  The procedures for carrying
out works by community are as under:
Forestry Operations and Related Works: The VSS would provide labor and material and
carry out the works under guidance and supervision of the Forestry Department.
Community Infrastructure Development: Any of the following methods may be adopted:
a. The VSS carrying out the works themselves; or
b. Though Direct Contracting with NGOs; or
c. By inviting quotations from at least three qualified agencies.
(b) Force Account (US$4.56 million)
Small forestry works like forest nurseries, research trials, clonal plant production, etc.
estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract will be carried out following Force
Account procedures in accordance with para 3.8 of the Guidelines.
1.2 Civil Works (US$7.5 million)
(a) NCB (US$1.2 million)
Maximum value of contract for civil works under this project is not likely to exceed US$1.5
million. As such, foreign bidders are not expected to be interested in participation in bidding
process for civil works. Therefore, there will be no contract for civil works under ICB
- 59 -



procedures. However, the foreign bidders will not be precluded from participating in bids
under NCB procedures. Civil Works estimated to cost US$30,000 and above will be carried
out following NCB procedures. The works to carried out under NCB contracts include
construction of administrative building at Hyderabad, updating the facilities at the Andhra
Pradesh Forest Academy (APFA), Dullapalli, and facilities at the Andhra Pradesh School of
Forestry, Yellandu. There will be five packages estimated to cost about US$1.18 million in
aggregate under the Project. The procedures acceptable under NCB are as under:
(i) Only the model bidding documents for NCB agreed with the GOI Task Force (and as
amended from to time) shall be used for bidding.
(ii) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily
newspaper, at least thirty days prior to the deadline for the submission of the bids.
(iii) No special preference will be accorded to any bidder when competing with foreign
bidders, state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or enterprises from any given
state.
(iv) Except with the prior concurrence of the Bank, there shall be no negotiation of price
with the bidders, even with the lowest evaluated bidder.
(v) Except in cases of force majeure and/or situations beyond the control of the project
state, extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the
Bank (a) for the first request of extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period.
(vi) Re-bidding shall not be carried out without prior concurrence of the Bank. The system
of rejecting the bids outside a pre-determined margin or "bracket" of prices shall not be
used.
(vii) Rate contracts entered into by DGS&D will not be acceptable as a substitute for NCB
procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable for any procurement under the national
shopping procedures.
(b) Force Account (US$6.30 million)
Small works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 per contract will be carried out following
Force Account procedures in accordance with para 3.8 of the procurement guidelines. There
are about 122 works like construction of quarters for field officers, civil structures and
approach roads in Research Centers and other works required for applied forestry research
such as pump-house, overhead tanks, etc.
- 60 -



2. Goods and Equipment (US$12.21 million)
The Project supports the procurement of computers and peripherals, GIS equipment,
furniture, office equipment, audio-visual equipment, vehicles, root trainers, seeds, seedlings,
plants, fertilizer, etc. The requirement is spread over the fourteen districts and over the
project period.
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$3.10 million)
Goods and equipment estimated to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent or more per
contract and where better quality equipment is likely to be available at competitive prices in
international market, will be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of ICB
procedures. The procurement under ICB includes procurement of computers, GPS, and
allied equipment. There will be in all 13 packages under ICB.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) (US$0.57 million)
Goods and equipment valued more than US$30,000 and up to US$200,000 equivalent per
contract will be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of NCB procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paras. 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. The number of
contracts to be financed under this category will be approximately 11. The goods and
equipment that will be procured through this method include training equipment, audio/visual
aids, furniture, research equipment, etc.
(c) National Shopping (US$8.35 million)
(i) Goods and equipment excluding vehicles (US$6.31 million): Office equipment, furniture,
small equipment, medicine, and other supplies estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of US$30,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$6.31 million
will be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping procedures
in accordance with the provisions of paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. The average
value under these contracts will be approximately US$12,000 and the number of
contracts to be financed under this category will be approximately 500. DGS&D rate
contracts are acceptable as a substitute for National Shopping.  However, State
Government Rate Contracts or procurement through Super Bazars, or Janata Bazars
will not be acceptable.
(ii) Vehicles (US$1.10 million): Vehicles for the project will consist of mostly four wheel
drive inspection vehicles. Approximately 97 number of vehicles will be financed under
this category. The requirement of these vehicles will be spread over the project period.
Thus they will not be amenable to central and lumped procurement. Individual contracts
are not likely to be more than US$100,000. Hence, these will be procured using
Shopping Procedures. DGS&D rate contracts are acceptable as a substitute for National
Shopping procedures. The rate list of these can be considered as one of the quotations
under the National Shopping procedures.
- 61 -



(d) Direct Contracting (US$0.77 million)
Satellite imagery, aerial photography and maps, proprietary equipment, spares and medicine,
books, periodicals, software, seeds, seedlings, plants, pesticides and fertilizer up to an
aggregate amount of US$0.77 million will be procured following Direct Contracting
procedures in accordance with para. 3.7 of the Guidelines.
3. Technical Assistance and Consultancy Services, Studies and Training (US$21.21
million)
Technical Assistance and Consultancy services would be required for management support,
implementation assistance, special studies, research, and capacity building for the implementing
staff, VSS and NGOs will be contracted following procedures in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for selection and employment of Consultants by the World Bank borrowers, (January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999). Out of the total cost of US$21.21 million
under this category, US$3.46 million will be for Consultancy Services, US$10.89 million for
training of community, NGOs, and FD officials, and the remaining US$6.86 million will be for
NGO support. Consultants would be selected using the following methods: Quality - and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) - US$2.04 million; Single-Source Selection - US$0.14 million;
and Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications - US$1.75 million. The standard Request for
Proposals (RFP) and conditions of contracts will be used for all contracts. Consulting services of
contract value less than US$50,000 equivalent, each for participatory planning and
implementation assistance will be contracted on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The selection of NGOs would generally take into account, amongst others, the following criteria:
*   The NGO should be non-political and should be having a proven track record of satisfied
beneficiaries;
*   It should consist of an adequate number of experienced field staff conversant with the local
culture and language, and the socio-economic dimensions of the beneficiary groups;
*   The staff of the selected NGO should have excellent communication skills;
*   It should be registered as a Society or have other Corporate status;
*   It should have facilities to maintain separately, records and accounting and auditing of funds
allocated for the assignment;
*   It should possess internal stability so as to ensure long term support; and
*   It should not have been blacklisted by the Central Social and Welfare Board (CSWB) or
Council for the Advancement of Peoples Action and Rural Technology (CAPART).
Assessment of Borrower's Readiness to ImDlement the Proiect
During the first year of the Project, Forestry Operations are planned in about 1800 villages. Out
of this, there will be about 800 tribal villages. VSS for these villages are already in place.
Microplans for typical 20 villages have been prepared. The critical activity will be preparation and
approval of microplans. Approval of microplans for tribal villages will be even more critical.
- 62 -



Procurement plan for the Project has been prepared. Bidding documents for the procurement of
goods under first year have been submitted to the Bank. There is no civil work under first year
program estimated to cost more than US$30,000 requiring prior review by the Bank.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions (Table B)
Procurement Plannin!
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for contracts following
NCB procedures, the proposed procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said
paragraph 1. The Annual Procurement Plans would be reviewed by IDA/Bank.
Prior Review
Works and Goods contracts
First two contracts for goods and works every year and all other contracts for goods and works
estimated to cost more than US$50,000 will be fully documented and subject to prior review by
the Bank as per procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Bank Guidelines.
Consultancy Contracts
Prior review for consultancy contracts would be as follows:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third sub-paragraph
of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply;
(b)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more,
but less than the equivalent of US$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2
(other than the second sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply; and
(c)  With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the
Association for its prior review and approval.
The contracts shall be awarded only after said approval has been given.
- 63 -



Despite the low limits stipulated for prior preview of contracts, not more than 5 percent of the
contracts are expected to come under the provisions of Prior Review.
Post Review
Works and Goods
The contracts below the prior review threshold for Works and Goods shall be subject to post
review as per procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank Guidelines. Given
the small size of the average contract, post review is not expected to capture more than 1 in 20
contracts.
Technical Assistance. Studies and Training
Contracts not coming under prior review shall be subject to post review.
Procurement Information
Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a)   Prompt reporting of contract award information by Project Directors
(b)   Comprehensive semi-annual reports by Project Directors indicating:
(i)  revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total project;
(ii) revised timings of the procurement actions including advertising, bidding,
contract award and completion time for individual prior review contracts;
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement.
(c)   Completion report by the borrower within three months of the credit closing date.
- 64 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00             1.20         79.36         0.00       80.56
(0.00)          (0.96)       (70.79)       (0.00)      (71.75)
2. Goods                             3.10           0.57           8.54         0.00       12.21
(2.48)          (0.46)        (6.83)       (0.00)      (9.77)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          21.17         0.00       21.17
(Consultancy, Training and         (0.00)          (0.00)        (20.48)       (0.00)     (20.48)
NGO Services)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          0.00         11.68       11.68
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (4.71)      (4.71)
PPF Refund                          0.00            0.00           1.50         0.00        1.50
(0.00)          (0.00)        (1.50)       (0.00)      (1.50)
Total                             3.10            1.77         110.57        11.68      127.12
(2.48)          (1.42)        (99.60)      (4.71)     (108.21)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2v ncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 65 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~P       A  19  -WI IS                               _ _
I,          p.~~  ~., ~QBS    * FB l3SkpQ                    ____SF1  1iTLotall[CAft?
A. Firms              2.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.14    0.00     3.93
(1.83)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.40)  (0.1 1)  (0.00)  (3.34)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  2.04    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.14    0.00     3.93
(1.83)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.40)  (0.11)  (0.00)   (3.34)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 66 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
C                                            4hrdsh   4ectt
.:   "       n''t';u                                        Pr
1. Works                       > 30                   NCB                     1.20
< 30           Community Participation
/Force Account
2. Goods                       > 200                   ICB                    3.10
> 30 but < 200             NCB
< 30                    NS
< 10                    DC
3. Services                    > 100                  QCBS                    1.20
< 100                  CQ, SS
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$5.50 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 67 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
RR        GMt =           ,           jIJMiiIIIfit     IR   T t I  IWIe;
Forestry Operations and Works           63.73                       90
Civil Works                             5.85                        80
Goods and Equipment                     9.83                        80
Consultancies                           2.77                        80
Training and Workshops                  10.89                      100
NGO Support                             6.86                       100
Incremental Operating Costs             4.71                       40.4
Unallocated                             2.06
PPF Refund                              1.50                       100
Total Project Costs                    108.20
Total                                  108.20
Financial Management
Country Issues
The following country issues will apply:
(a)   GOAP's existing accounting system  concentrates mainly on book keeping and
transactional control over expenditures. There is no concept of financial management information
being used for decision making. However, APFD has developed accounting and financial
reporting systems that will allow management information to be provided. This has been
demonstrated in the first phase project - APFP, Cr. 2573-IN.
(b)   The issue of availability of funds on a timely basis to APFD applies to the project to the
extent that this is a state sector project and that state sector projects are generally more vulnerable
to this problem. However, GOAP has had a good track record in the timely release of funds to
the project implementing entities and flow of funds has not been issue in the just concluded phase
I of the project.
- 68 -



(c)   Quality and timeliness of audit reports and response/follow-up of audit findings has been
noted in many states/administrations. In the concluded project, there have been substantial audit
disallowances by the AG in most years. The audit disallowances have related largely to
admissibility issues of routine nature and the audit reports have not brought out any significant
accounting or system  issues.  The audit disallowances indicate that: (i) internal control
mechanisms for the charging expenditures under the project need to be strengthened; and (ii) staff
need to be well oriented with the project implementation design and well versed with Bank's
disbursement procedures. These control issues have been partly addressed with the documentation
of the financial management and accounting procedures in the Manual and agreement with APFD
on a detailed training plan to ensure that all staff are well oriented, understand the project design
and the Bank's disbursement procedures. An action plan is being agreed to resolve the audit
disallowances of Rs. 53 million identified by the AG in the audit report for the year 2000-2001.
APFD has had a good record of timely submission of audit reports in the concluded project.
Quality of audit reports is being taken up with the CAG as a larger issue at country level.
(d)   Project Financial Statements are being agreed with APFD and it is expected that the
accounting system will be capable of producing these statements.
(e)   Though at the country level, slow disbursements and delay in submitting withdrawal
applications has been an area of concem, APFD has had an excellent record of timely submissions
of withdrawal claims in the concluded project.
Strennths and Weaknesses
Strengths
The project has the following strengths in the area of financial management:
(i)   This is a follow on project and hence the project personnel are trained in Bank's
disbursement procedures;
(ii)  a dedicated officer is in place to take overall responsibility of the finance function of the
project;
(iii)  a project financial management manual is being prepared which details the funds flow
process,
Chart of Accounts, the accounting arrangements, financial reporting, auditing etc.;
(iv)  A system of timely submission of accounts from districts to the state level already exists
and
(v)   A  computerized financial accounting and management system  is currently being
developed.
- 69 -



Significant weaknesses
Significant weaknesses                       Resolution
The capacity of VSS's for book-keeping and  The accounting for project funds will be
accounting and financial management is very  through the APFD's books of accounts.
limited. They will need support in maintaining the
books of account.
It is also expected that the VSS's will become  The Facilitation Teams will also assist and
self-sustaining institutions generating substantial  train the VSS office bearers to plan for the
revenues from other sources. It is recognized that  finances on business lines, which should enable
local capacity to take on the financial planning  them to plan and maintain the post-project
requirements is limited.                   finances systematically.
An existing accounting system which primarily  A financial management manual has been
focuses on book-keeping and not on financial  developed for the project which focuses on
management                                 financial reporting and monitoring. Formats of
internal & external reports will form part of
the Manual. The FMIS is being computerized.
Staffing
The finance function at APFD will be managed by the Chief Accounts Officer (CAO). The PMU
set up for the project will have a dedicated officer responsible for budgeting, contracting,
payments, accounting, and disbursements.  Accounts Officers, Superintendents and Clerks
manage the accounting and reporting functions at the Circle, Division and Range levels. The staff
are conversant with Bank's accounting requirements, having worked on the AP Forestry Phase I.
No additions in staff are considered necessary for the project.
The APFD accounting staff would need to be provided with training in the project's accounting
and financial reporting requirements. APFD has prepared a detailed training plan for the purpose
and this plan will need to be agreed with the Bank. Since, the capacity of the VSSs is clearly not
adequate, one of the critical functions of the FD will be to provide hands-on support in order to
enhance capacity of the VSS office bearers in book-keeping and accounting. The FD will also
work with the VSSs to assist in the process of financial planning for the accountability
requirements for the revenues generated from all sources and expenditures incurred as per the
Micro plans, the legal framework under which they operate and the sustainability requirements.
Training on the accounting arrangements at the VSS level will be provided by APFD. Training
on the operation of computerized financial management system to the finance and accounting
personnel at APFD will be provided by the consultants appointed for design and development of
the computerized financial management system in the project.
- 70 -



Accoundmn Policies and Procedures
The proposed project financial management system has been documented in a Project Financial
Management Manual (FMM). The Manual would be a part of the Borrower's Project
Implementation Plan on financial management. The FMM would also serve as a reference
document for all project staff.  The Manual  includes the following aspects of financial
management (a) Budgeting and flow of funds to the project and within the project to various
entities; (b) Accounting system (including chart of accounts, formats of books, accounting and
financial procedures); (c) Financial reporting (including formats of internal and external reports
and linkages with Chart of Accounts); (d) Financial and accounting policies; and e) Service
standards (benchmarks) for various accounting and financial activities. The reporting formats will
need to be agreed with the Bank.
Books of accounts for the project would be maintained using the present Government accounting
systems. In addition to the standard classification budget head requirements, expenditures will be
classified by project components and disbursement categories. APFD is developing a
computerized accounting and contract management system and project accounts will be
maintained in this system, when operational. In the interim, the manual system will be adequate.
A Chart of Accounts will be developed to enable data to be captured and classified by expenditure
center, budget heads, project components, and disbursement categories. This would match
closely with the classification of expenditures and sources of funds indicated in the project
documents (Project Implementation Plan and Project Cost Tables).
APFD have also initiated a study on delegation of financial powers and review the current office
procedures, record keeping and reporting systems.  The study will    make specific
recommendations on the ways to streamline the office and accounting procedures, registers and
records maintained, redistribution of functions and delegation levels. These recommendations will
be incorporated in the design of the financial management systems of the project.
A simple financial management and accounting manual for the VSS has been developed. The
manual would include the following aspects: (a) formats of simple books of accounts (cash book,
works registers, muster registers, products received register, products disposal register,
beneficiary contributions register etc.) required to account for all revenues generated and
expenditures incurred; (b) formats of periodic financial reports required to be submitted to APFD;
(c) requirements of reporting to the community (like display of summary of finances in public
places etc.).
Beneficiary Contribution
Though the VSS are expected to contribute up to 10% of the village level works, the total value
of the contributions will be nominal and have not been included in project costs. No expenditures
against beneficiary contributions will thus, be eligible for reimbursements under the project.
- 71 -



Audit Arrangements
The Accounts of the Project will be audited by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) of
India. The annual project financial statements audited by the CAG would be submitted within six
months of the close of GOAP's fiscal year. Thus the following audit reports will be monitored in
the Audit Reports Compliance System (ARCS):
Implementing Agency              Audit                   Auditors
APFD                      SOE/Project Audit       CAG
Department of Economic    Special Account         Comptroller and Auditor
Affairs/GOI                                       General
The accounting of project funds channeled through the VSS's will be maintained in the books of
accounts of APFD. Thus there are no special requirements of audit of the VSSs. However, it is
expected that the VSSs will handle funds from other sources and detailed guidelines and
instructions for reporting are being framed by GOAP.
The audit covenants of Cr. 2573-IN, a project being implemented by the same entity, have been
complied with so far. The audit report for 2000-01 (April-September 2001) has been received
and the Bank has sought detailed clarifications for the amounts disallowed by the CAG. APFD is
also preparing a time-bound action plan for the resolution of the amounts disallowed.
Revorting and Monitoring
The project will prepare and submit quarterly project monitoring reports (PMRs) from the start of
the project. The agreed fornats of the PMRs are included in the FMM. The Divisional Offices of
APFD will compile the accounts of the Range and Beat level and forward the special purpose
project financial statements to the Circle Offices. The Accounts Officers at the Circlewill compile
the reports for all Divisions and forward the same to the PMU at APFD. Formats of the internal
reports, agreed with the Bank have also been provided in the Manual. The expenditures in the
project financial reports will be reconciled with the standard Government reports submitted to the
Pay and Accounts Officers of GOAP as well as the Accountant General's Office on a regular
basis.
The PMU, APFD will compile monthly claims to send to CAA&A in DEA while the disbursement
is on the basis of traditional system of disbursement, i.e. on the basis of SOEs and documented
claims and then on a quarterly basis if a switch over is made to PMR system of disbursement.
Information Systems
APFD had initiated the development of an integrated computerized financial management and
information system in the just concluded first phase of the project. However, APFD could not
implement the system during the life of the project. APFD has now reinitiated (with the help of
internal consultants) the development of the integrated computerized Financial Management
Information System (FMIS). The system is being developed to allow APFD entity accounting to
- 72 -



be computerized with the project(s) as sub-set(s) to meet the Bank's reporting requirements. The
computerized FMS is expected to be fully operational and staff trained by December 31, 2002.
Until this is ready, the manual accounting system will be adequate to meet the requirements.
Disbursement Arranizements
Disbursements from IDA credit would initially be made in the traditional system (replenishment
and reimbursement with full documentation and against statement of expenditure) and could be
converted to the Project Monitoring Report (PMR) based disbursements at the option of the
GOAP and GOI after the successful implementation of the computerized FMS and the
preparation of regular, timely and adequate quality PMRs, has been demonstrated to the
Borrower, Andhra Pradesh and IDA. Disbursements will be made on the basis of statement of
expenditure for: (a) goods and works under contracts not exceedirig US$30,000 equivalent; (ii)
consultants services under contracts not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent; (iii) operating costs; and (iv)
training, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
A Special Account would be maintained in the Reserve Bank of India; and would be operated by
the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of Government of India (GOI) in accordance with the
Bank's operational policies. When disbursements are made in the traditional system, the
authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$5 million, which represents about four
months of initial estimated disbursements from the IDA Credit. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account will be US$5 million until cumulative disbursements from the Credit reach SDR
30,000,000 million. When disbursements are made on PMR based-system, the authorized
allocation of the Special Account would be US$10 million. Each deposit into the Special
Account will the amount required to make the balance in the Special Account equal to the
forecasted disbursements for the next six months. In the event that the projected six-months
disbursements exceed the specified Special Account limit, IDA will take appropriate action to
ensure that sufficient funds are available in the Special Account for project implementation to
continue as planned. The project will submit withdrawal applications to CAA&A in DEA for
onward submission to the Bank for replenishment of the special account or reimbursement.
Actual expenditures incurred by the VSSs and recorded ini the books of accounts of APFD will
only be considered as eligible expenditures.
Retroactive Financing: Retroactive financing up to an amount of US$5 million would cover
eligible expenditure for implementing activities after March 31, 2002. Retroactive financing
would support the eligible expenditure for retroactive financing, and would include consultant
services, training, operating costs, advance forestry works, research and to meet the operational
expenses.
SuDervision Plan
From a financial management perspective, the project will need intensive supervision. The focus
during the supervision will be on building capacity of VSS's and functioning of accounting and
financial reporting at these levels.
- 73 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Pr6jOO,$.qti.,hed ulIer,,,i,  7) P!lll-gr;l0l{l , r,.;iFanned-,  |     .  ,   ,.LA     AlPlt
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        18
First Bank mission (identiflcation)               11/09/2000                   04/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                       11/20/2001                   02/20/2002
Negotiations                                     04/18/2002                    05/22/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/30/2002
Prepared by:
Government of Andhra Pradesh, Forest Department
Preparation assistance:
World Bank Staff
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality'
Irshad A. Khan                     Task Leader/Forest Planning and Management
Peter Jipp                         Forestry, M&E, FMIS
Madhavi M. Pillai                  Community Development Non-Timber Products
Mohd. Hasan                        Social Development
Harshadeep Nagaraja-Rao            Environment, GIS
Malcolm Jansen                     Environment, Biodiversity
D.J. Baxi                          Procurement
Raj Soopramanien                   Senior Counsel
Manvinder Mamak                    Financial Management
Barry Deren                        Economics
Paul Ryan                          Forestry Treatment
Jacqueline Julian                  Cost tables
M.S.S.Varadan                      Institutions
S.N. Desai                         Agrostology and livestock
Bob Saum                           Financial Management
Terrence Abeyesekhara              Economics, Policy Analysis
Yoshiko Masuyama                   Program Assistant
Deborah Ricks                      Program Assistant
Juderica Dias-Khetarpaul           Team Assistant
- 74 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.     Project Implementation Plan, Andhra Pradesh Forest Department (May 21, 2002)
2.     Institutional Assessment Study conducted by Consultant (September 5, 2001)
3.     Comprehensive Government of AP's Order on Community Forest Management (February 12,
2002)
4.     Andhra Pradesh Forest Policy adopted by GOAP (April 16, 2002)
5.     Social and Environmental Assessment report prepared by National Institute of Rural Development,
Hyderabad, India (November 5, 2001)
6.     Summary of Social and Environmental Assessment (January 18, 2002)
7.     Environmental Management and Pest Management Plan (January 18, 2002)
8.     Tribal Development Strategy and Tribal Development Plan (January 18, 2002)
9.     Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy (February 5, 2002)
10.    Resettlement Action Plan (January 18, 2002)
11.    Gender Strategy, Andhra Pradesh Community Forest Management Project (October 2001)
12.    Stakeholders Consultations (September 2001)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I.     Project Concept Document (May 2001)
2.     Forest Silviculture Treatment-Working paper (September 2001)
3.     Fodder and Pasture Development- Working Paper (September 2001)
4.     Integrated Social and Environmental Data Sheet (February 2002)
C. Other
*Including electronic files
- 75 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
03-Juni-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                            dlsbumsements'
Projec ID     FY   Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undlsb.      Orlg   Frrm Rev'd
P040610       2002 RAJWVSRP                                         0 00    14000                 0 00      0.00     132.35     -5.00      0 00
P069889       2002 MIZORAM ROADS                                    000      60.00                0.00      0 00      60608      000       0 00
P071033       2002 KARN TANK MGMT                                   0.00     9890o                0 00      000o     10069       0.00      000
P050653       2002 KARNATAK(ARWSSII1                                0 00    151 60                0 00      0 00     148699      161       0.00
P074018       2002 Gularel Emergency Earthquake Reconstruct         0 00    442580                0 00      0 00     451 30      0.00      0.00
P072539       2002 KERALA STATE TRANSPORT                         255 00      0 00                000(      0.00     255 00      0 00      000
P050647       2002 U'TTAR PRADESH WATER SECTrOR                     0 00    149 20                0.00      0 00     141.09     -500o      0.00
P059242       2001 RESTRUCTURING                                    0 00    110.10                0 00      0 00     100.37     -4.43      0.00
P055455       2001 MP OPP                                           0 00     74 40                0 00      0.00      6867       1 24      000
P055454       2001 RAJ DPEP I                                       0.00     65&50                0 00      000       59.00      5.98      0.00
P010586       2001 KERALA RWSS                                    381 00      0.00                0.00      0 00     340.58     87.91      000
P05085        2001 GWJARAT HWYS                                     0 00     64 90                000       000o      57.44      650       0 00
P035173       2001 TECHN EDUC III                                 45000O      0 00                0.00      0.00     386.04     41.97      000
P071244       2001 POWERGRID O                                    589.00      0 00                0 00      0.00     56304      52 04      0 00
P070421       2001 Grand Trunk Road Imrigovement Proect           300.00      0.00                0 00      0 00     338.38      9.38      0.00
P067543       2001 KARNHKWYS                                        0.00     30 00                0 00      0.00      25.57      390       0 00
P067218       2001 LEPROSYII1                                       000o    100 40                0 00      0 00      97.20      3.74      0 00
P03833        2001 KAR WSHDODEVELOPMENT                           153 00      0.00                0 00      0 00     15900      2584       0 00
P035172       2000 RAJ POWER I                                    15000o      000                 0.00      0 00      8847      2381       0.00
P059501       2000 UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURiNG PROJECT            0 00     4500                 0.00      0 00      38 60      7 45      0 00
P050657       2000 TAtfor Econ Retbrin Prioj                        0 00    11000                 0.00      0 00      98563     16.14      0 00
P0497'70      2000 UP HeaiflhSystemsDevelopmnentPruect             80 00     SD000                0.00      000      117 97     14 79      0.00
P009972       2000 REN EGYII1                                     518 00      0 00                0.00      000      444.68     76.57      0 00
PD45049       2000 NATIONAL HIGHWAYS III PROJECr                    0 00    111 00                000o       000      96 77      9 99      0.00
P0506W        2000 AP DPIP                                          0 00    182.40                000o      0.00      92.36     28.27      0 00
P010505       2000 UPODPEP Ill                                      0 00    IOOAB                 0.00      000       89 45     16.56      000o
P05S456       2000 RAJASTH4AN OPIP                                 82 00      0.00                0 00       0 00     57.89     33.39      0 00
P087330       2000 LN-Telecommnunicatlons Soctor Refornm TA         0 00    142 60                0 00       0.00     80.42     1260       0.00
P050851       1990 IMMUNIZATION STRENGTHIENING PROJECT              0 00    134 00                0 00       0 00    108568     58.95      0.00
P045050       1999 MANARASHNNEALTH SYS                              0 00     85 70                0 00       0.00     5846      5771       0.00
P050848       1999 RAJASTHAN DPEP                                   0.00    194.10                0.00      0 00     127.57     66 30      000
P050637       1999 UP SODIC LANDS II                             '105.00      0.00                0 00      0.00      31.13     -1 94      0.00
P049537       1999 TN URBAN DEViI1                                210 00      0.00                0 00      0.00      60.25     80.25      0.00
P041264       1999 AP POWER APL I                                  85.00     56.00                0 00       0.00     85.48     30.67      0 00
P045051       1999 WTRSHD MGMAT HILLS 11                            0.00    191 00                0.00       0 00    105 11     26.28      0 00
P049477       1998 2ND NATL HIVIAIDS CO                             0 00     3900                 0.00       0 00     19.28     10.22      0.00
P049385       1998 KERALA FORESTRY                                301 30    241 90                0.00       0 00    241.01    157.164     000D
P010496      1IW8 AP ECON RESTRUCTURIN                              0.00     78 40                0.00       0.00     59.55     3510       0 00
P010561       1996 ORISSA HEALTH SYS                               9.840    100.00                000        000o    112 38     74 85      0.00
P035189       1998 NATL AGR TECHNOLOGY                              0.00     52 94                0 00       0.00     18.98     15.99      0 00
P035824       1998 UPPFORESTRY                                     7900      50.00                0 00       0 00     83 59     8417      20 09
P035827       1998 DIV AGRC SUPPORT                                 000     300.00                0.00       0 00    211.19     9455       0.00
P038021       1998 WOMEN &CHILD DEVLPM                              0 00    152 00                0.00       0 00    105.20     95 94      0.00
P035158       1997 OPEP Ill(BIHAR)                                17500     1 56.00               0 00       0 00    175.87    1 52.20     0.00
P010531       1997 AP IRRIGATION Ill                                0 00    248.30                0.00       000      78.19     80.38     59.36
P009.584      1997 REPROOUCTIVE HEALTHI                             000        000                0 00       0.00      8 14      760       0.00
P010511       1997 ECOODEVELOPMENT                                  0 00    184 80                0 00       000     102.49    1o3.os      0 00
P009995       1997 MALARIA CONTROL                                350.00      0.00                0 00       000     142-28     98 96      0.00
P010473       1997 STATE HIGH4WAYSIl(AP)                            0.00    142 40                0 00       00       88as50   104569      0.00
P049301       1997 TUBERCULOSIS C-ONTROL                           50 00    10000                 0 00      19 00     17 92     41 57      2.99
P044449       1997 A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                              0.00     1950                 0.00       0,00     13.94     18.38      -1.71
P043728       1997 RURAL WOMEN'SDEVELOPMENT                         000o     56.00                 000o      0 94     14 94     18.79      0 00
P03062        1997 ENV' CAPACITY BLDG TA                            000      2800D                20 00      000      12.53     14.72      0.00
ECODEVELOPMENT
- 76 -



Difference betWeen expected
and actual
Original Amount In US$ Millions                          dlsbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                   GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P035821       1996 DPEPII                                          000     425.20                0.00      0.00     75.15     2639       0.00
P010480       1996 BOMBAYSEWDISPOSAL                             16700      2500                 000      10.00     5218      6275      3413
P010484       1900 UP RURAL WATER                                 59 60      0 00                0.00      7.20     22 01     28.55     20 85
P010485       1998 HYDROLOGY PROJECT                               0.0     142.00                0.00     19.64     29.25     72.95     3575
P010529       1998 ORISSA WRCP                                     0.00    290.90                0.00      0.00     75.56     85.76      0.00
P043310       1996 COAL ENV & SOCAL MITIGATION                     0.00     6300                 0.00      6.09     11.53     24.67      0.00
P035825       1996 STATE HEALTH SYS 11                             0 00    350.00                0 00      0 00     81.55    127 03      0 00
P035170       1996 ORISSAPOWERSECTOR                             35000       0.00                0.00     6000     13047     187.12      000
P010461       1995 MADRAS WATSUPII                               275.80      0.00                000     18930      14.00    203.09      1285
P010463       1995 INDUS POLLUTION PREV                          143.00     25.00                000      68.31     37 74    108.20      309
P010522       1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRA                               000    '126 00                0.00      0.00     31.78     35.13     46.64
P010489       1995 AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                            0 00    133 00                0.00      0 00     13.29     25 84      0.00
P010464       1995 DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                             0 00    260.30                0 00      0 00     53.07     71.62      10 85
P010476       1995 TAMIL NADU WRCP                                 000     282 90                0.00     2501      54.38    122.89      26.99
P010455       1994 BUNDNESS CONTROL                                0.00    11780                 000      10.00     21.30     36.42      000
P009977       1993 ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                            0.00    194.00                0.00      0.00     15.23     21.73      2174
P009963       1992 POPULATION VIII                                 0.00     79.00                0.00      0.00     13.55     16.91      0 00
P009946       1992 NAT. HIGHWAYS II                              15300     15300                 000       2.73     1932      11.34     .11.34
Total:    5624 40    746642              20.00     41822     7521.20   3245.54    304.97
- 77 -



INDIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
2001               LearningUniverse             0.00   0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25    0.00   0.00
1981/90/93        M&M                          0.00    0.55    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.55     0.00   0.00
2001               Mahlnfra                     0.00  10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996/99/00        Moser Baer                  21.54   14.80    0.00    0.00    7.97  14.80     0.00   0.00
NICCO-UCO                    2.59    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.59    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/96197        NUT                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
Orchid                       0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00
2001               Owens Coming                25.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              Pennar Steel                  0.00   0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1997              Prism Cement                 13.13   5.02    0.00    9.00   13.13   5.02     0.00   9.00
1981              RCIHL                        0.00    1.97    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.97    0.00   0.00
1995              RTL                          0.00    0.45    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.45     0.00   0.00
2001              Rain Calcining               14.82   5.46    0.00    0.00   14.82    5.46    0.00    0.00
2001               SAPL                         0.00   0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00
1995              SREI                         10.00   0.00    5.00    0.00    5.00   0.00     5.00   0.00
1997              Sara Fund                    0.00    5.94    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.94     0.00   0.00
1997/00           Spryance                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Sundaram Finance             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00
2001               Sundararn Home               0.00   2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.67    0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95     TCFC Finance Ltd             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
2000              TCW/ICICI                     0.00   7.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.15    0.00    0.00
0                 TDICI-VECAUS I]               0.00   0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00
1998              nsco                         o.oo    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1990              Tanflora Park                0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1981/86/89/92/94  Tata Electric                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Titan Industries              0.00   0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00
1989/90/94        UCAL                         0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93     United Riceland              10.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1989              VARUN                        0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36   0.00
1996              Vysya Bank                   0.00    7.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.30    0.00    0.00
1991/96/01        WIV                          0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00
2001              Walden-Mgt India              0.00   0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997              AEC                          3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Ambuja Cement                0.26    4.94    0.00    0.00    0.26    4.94    0.00    0.00
1989              Arvind Mills                 0.00    5.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.02    0.00    0.00
1994              Asian Electronic             0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1992/93           BTVL                         0.00   20.00    0.00    0 00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Basix Ltd.                   0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00
2001              Bihar Sponge                  0.00   0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05    0.00    0.00
2001              CCIL                          9.00   0.00    0.00   11.50    5.50    0.00    0.00    7.00
1984/91           CEAT                         19.60   0.00    0.00    0.00   19.60    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001              CESC                         18.00   0.00    0.00   40.20   18.00    0.00    0.00   40.20
1997              Centurion Bank               4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92           Chinai                        1.00   0.00    0.00    0.00 000       0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97
2000
Total Portfolio:      189.57  185.33   50.36   68.52   146.20  151.94  40.36   64.0,
- 78 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2000               APCL                             7.10     0.00      1.90     0.00
2001               GI Wind Fanrns                   9.79     0.98      0.00     0.00
2001               GTF Fact                        10.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              IL&FS-GF                         40.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000               Orissa NESCO                    28.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000               Orissa WESCO                    11.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
1999               Sarshatali Coal                 4.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2002               Sundaram Home 11                10.42     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002               Webdunia                         0.00     0.00      2.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      120.31     0.98      3.90     0.00
- 79 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
INDIA: ANDHRA PRADESH COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South     Low-
India      Asia   Income      Development dlamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                    1,015.9    1,355     2.459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                    450       460       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                    454 8       617     1,030
Average annual growth, 1199440
Population (IX)                                       1 8       1 9       1 9
Labor force (%)                                       2 3       2.4       2.4     GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (f of population below nattonal povertY hne)   35
Urban population (ff of total population)              28        28        32
Life expectancv at birth (years)                       63        63        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 tie btIths)                71        74        77
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)             45        47        ,,          Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (ff of populatIon)  80        87        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    43        45        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  100      100        96      -   India --     Low-Incoma group
Male                                                109       110       102
Female                                               90        90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                         182.9    316 9     445 2     457.0
Gross domestic InvestmentUGDP               20.9     25.2      24.3      24 0                    Trade
Exports of goods and servIces/GDP            6.1      7.3      12 0      14.0
Gross domestic savInas/GDP                  17.3     22 5      21.2      21 4
Gross national savings/GOP                  18.9     22.0      23 2      23.4
Current account balance/GDP                  -1 9    -3 2       -1 1     406      Domestic                    Ie
Interest payments/GDP                        03       1 2       0.8       0 8     savingsInvestment
Total debtGDP                               11.3     26 4       22.0     22.0
Total debt servicetexports                   98      32.4       15.3     12.7
Present value of debtIGDP                                                15 5
Present value of debVexports                                             91.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(averait annual wrowth)
GDP                                 5.8      6.0      71        3.9       54              India --- Low-income group
GDP per capita                      3.5      4.1      52        2.0       3.8
Exports of goods and services       59      11.7      6.0       5.0       7 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment end GOP (%)
(X of GDP)                                                                        3D
Agriculture                                 38.6     31.3       26.2     24.9
Industry                                    24.2     276       26.0      26 9     is
Manufacturing                              16.3     172       15.2      158
Services                                    37.2     41.1      47 8      48.2      o        9        sr e       ss   oo
Private consumption                         72 7     65.9      65.9      65 4     -15
General government consumption              10.0     11.6      12.9      13.2                    GDI     O---GDP
Imports of goods and services                9.7      9.9       151      16.6
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growthJ
Agriculture                                  31       30         1.3     -0.2     40
Industry                                     69       6.4       4.9       6 3     30
Manufactunng                                7.4      7.0       4.2       6 7    20
Services                                     7.0      8 0       9.5       4.8    1i1x0n
Private consumption                          5.8      4.8       2 8       4.2      G
General govemment consumption                4.2      6 9       12.0      6 5     -10
Gross domestic Investment                    66       79        15.7      2.0             -Exports      -     Imports
Imports of toods and services                59       95        6 0       5 0
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-croup average If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.
- 80 -



India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000        n
Domestkc rices
(!6 change)
Consumer prioes                                .    12.8       3.4      3.8
Implicit GDP deflator                       116     104        3.5      4.1
Govement finance                                                                 s
(% of GDP, Indudes cauent grants)                                                o -
Cunennrevenue                                 ..      ..      18.9      19.9           9s       9   7 ci  Oa   go
Current budget balance                        ..      ..       4.4      -4.2           -     GOP deflator     CPI
Overall surpluc/defldt                                 .      -10.6   -10.6
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        8,501  18,477    37,542   44,894     7so000
Tea                                                535      1,183    1,394      .   .
Iron                                        ..     970       916     1,158
Manufactures                             5,105   12,996    29,714   34,511    45.00-
Total Imports (clf)                       15,862  27,914    55,383   59,264     J0 .    *
Food                                     1,348     557      2,417    1,432
Fuel and energy                          6,669    6,028    12,611   15,650    *s.o   __
Capital goods                            2,416    5,836     8,965    8,785        o
ExportpriceIndex(1995=100)                   28       51       116      122           94   95   go   97   a   go   eo
Importpricelndex(1995=100)                   27       46       150      162                  *Exports     EtrIports
Termsoftrade(1995=100J                      105      109        77       75
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
rUSS millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP ()
Exports of goods and servIces             11,249  23,028    53,251   63,764     o
Imports of goods end servIces             17,821  31,485    67,028   75,656
Resouncebalance                           -6,572  4,457    -13,777   -11,892
Net Income                                  325   -3,753    -3,559    -3,821        1            i
Net current transfers                     2,693    2,068    12,256   12,798     -  .*
Zurrent ascount balance                   4,554  -10,142    -5,080    -2,915
-inancing Items (net)                     2,564    7,650    11,482    8,771
Zhanges In net reserves                     990    2,492    4,402    -5,856     2
leserves Including gold (US$ millions)    6,823    5,834    38,036   42,281
Sonverslon rate (DEC, loaIbUSS)             7.9     17.9      43.3     45.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
'U$ millions)                                                                   Compostilon of 2000 debt (US$ mIlL)
rotal debt outstanding and disbursed     20,695   83,717    98,158  100,367
IBRD                                      827    7,685     7,816    7,063                  G:3,4e4 A 7063
IDA                                      5,142  13,312    18,930   20,804
rotal debt service                        1,426    8,191    10,108    9,862                                  B
lBRD                                      137    1,087     1,389     1,421              ,      V           B 20,804
IDA                                        50      211       469      554
omposftlon of net resource flows                                                F 40,376
Official grants                           750      461       382      336
Official creditors                        908    2.334     1,068      589                                  D 4.4
Private creditors                         789    1.606    -1,658    4,340                                  D 454
Foreign direct Investment                   ..      97     2,093     1,828                 N.
PortfolIo equity                            ..       6     3,024     2,760                           E 24,119
Vortd Bank program
Commitments                              2,503   2,186       817     2,064    A-IBRD                     E - Baateral
Disbursements                             826    1,981     1,460     1,742     B-IDA    D- Other multiaterml  F - Private
Prlncipal repayments                       86      586     1,228     1,392     C - IMF                   G - Short-temni
Net flows                                 739    1,395       232      350
Interest payments                         101      712       630      583
Net transfers                             639      683      -398     -233
levelopment Economics                                                                                           2/5/02
- 81 -



- 82 -



IBRD 31961
io~~~~r Wo db
T.  J=/c ldia-dW
-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 8h. . .-h 
bh,   MEDAK           R    NGAL     /        T 
y MA~~NAGEMN RJC
k   T A/<  e   ; NELLLCOMMUNIY FORES
X X   i  )   tO R   0   g                  _  DIST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJCT DISTRICTS
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATINGALOE HIGHWAYS)DS D
rO~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TT CAPITALSnt  
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~DSRC BONARE
CH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~^ STAEtD2NAR









IMAUINQi
Report No.:        24184   IN
Type:     PAD



