Page  1
1
RP87 
 
A
P
COMMUN ITY FOREST MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN (RAP)  
 
1
Background:  
 
1.1 Forests in the state of Andhra Pradesh extend to nearly 23% of its geographical area. These 
forests are rich in a variety of flora and fauna. They also are abode to a number of tribal groups. 
The tribals depend heavily on the richness of the forest resources for their livelihood. 
Unfortunately, development of forest resources and development of human resources have not 
always been very synergetic leading to large scale degradation of forest resources. The reasons 
range from unsustainable and unscientific exploitation to increase in demand primarily due to 
population growth and inadequacy of a corresponding growth in supply of goods and services 
from the forests. 
 
During 1990s,the Government of India (GOI) issued a circular enabling community 
participation in Forest Protection and Management. The Government of Andhra Pradesh 
(GOAP) adopted this in 1992. From then onwards there has been a major shift in Forest 
Management.  The local village communities that depend on the forests for meeting their needs 
were made partners in Forest Management through the concept of Joint Forest Management 
(JFM). The experience of JFM in AP has proven to be a success. The forest cover has increased 
and there is a perceptible improvement in the forestry sector. However, the investments made 
and initiatives taken need further consolidation for sustaining the impact. With the experience 
gained from Joint Forest Management, in order to institutionalize the process, to ensure greater 
decentralization and devolution of managerial responsibilities and to ensure steady flow of 
benefits to the communities, during 2002, the Government of Andhra Pradesh launched 
Community Forest Management as an improvement over Joint Forest Management. While JFM 
was a partnership between the forest dependent communities and the GOAP, CFM is a 
democratic process through delegation of the decision making process. It aims at decentralizing 
the entire process of planning and implementation with Andhra Pradesh Forest Department 
(APFD ) and GOAP acting as facilitators and providers of technical and infrastructure support. 
This Community Forest Management approach is a radical shift from traditional estate approach 
to forestry.  
 
Joint Forest Management and Community Forest Management primarily focus on 
treating forests as a common property resource and managing it for common use. Community 
Forest Management in Andhra Pradesh is being practiced only in the state owned forest areas. 
Vana Samrakshana Samithies or Village Forest Protection Committees are formed in the forest 
dependent villages comprising of willing forest dependent families. Forests in the vicinity of 
such villages are then allotted to these VSSs for protection and management. The VSSs are 
entitled for complete ownership of usufruct and are required to set apart 50% of net proceeds 
from sale of 
timber
 and 
bamboos
 towards future forest management expenses.  
 
Page  2
2
2.
 
Need for a Resettlement Action Plan in Community Forest Management:
 
2.1 Land tenure in Tribal areas: Tribals, especially in the north coastal (Srikakulam, 
Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari) and north Telangana (Adilabad, Khammam, 
Karimnagar and Warangal) districts traditionally practiced shifting cultivation. The cycle of 
cropping , other details of agriculture and different social practices were regulated through a 
well-defined and structured system of local governance, which is similar to the panchayat system 
at village level.  The practice of shifting cultivation, though not environment friendly, did not 
cause great loss as long as the population was less and the cycle of shifting had wide gaps. The 
cycle however gradually started reducing with the growth in local population. The stat
e’s policy 
on reservation of forested areas for forestry purposes affected the tribals’ dependency on forest 
for their livelihood as their access to forest for cultivating crop decreased considerably. To 
provide land to tribals and to settle the land tenure, the Government took a number of measures 
such as abolition of private estates, conversion of 
muttadari
 and 
mahalguzari 
rights into 
Ryotwari
 rights.  Dis-reservation of forest lands was also done in some cases to assign land to 
tribal agriculturists. But the policy of dis-reservation of forests and converting the land-use from 
forestry to agriculture resulted in encroachments. The initiatives in the 60s and mid 70s which 
accorded tribal status to the community of 
lambadas
 led to their migration to Adialbad district 
from Maharashtra, where they did not enjoy such a status . Similar migration took place from 
Orissa into the neighboring Visakhapatnam district around the same time where tribals displaced 
by Hydel projects migrated to Andhra Pradesh in search of land and employment.  
 
Since mid 80s, the law and order situation especially in the tribal areas of Andhra Pradesh 
has deteriorated with increase in activities of extremists (locally called Naxalites) and anti-social 
elements . Many times the the Forest Officers were reduced to being mute spectators to large 
scale plundering of forests that took place. In1987 the situation was so bad that in an ambush, 
many senior police officials were killed in Alampalli in Adilabad district. This attracted the 
attention of the Government. Various incidents clearly pointed out that land in general and 
forestland in particular was the major issue for tribal unrest, which was exploited by the 
extremist elements and that this was also the reason attributed for the ambush. A decision was 
taken in November 1987 to identify all the encroachments that existed prior to 1980 for 
considering their de-reservation. (the cut off date being the date on which the Government of 
India had passed the Indian Forest Conservation Act according to which no forest land was to be 
diverted for non forestry activity without the prior approval of the Government of India). This 
further encouraged more encroachments. It is estimated that nearly 100,000 ha of forestland was 
encroached consequent to this  decision of the Government to consider de-reservation of pre 
1980 cultivations.  After nearly seven years from the cut off date, the  virtually impossibility of 
making any distinction between pre 1980 and post 1980 encroachments, and the worsening law 
and order situation added to the misery of foresters. Realizing the potential ill effects of such 
large-scale encroachments, the Government subsequently in 1995 withdrew its decision of 1987 
to consider regularizing pre 1980 cultivations.  In this entire bargain nearly 25% of forestland 
was encroached in Adilabad district itself.   
 
Efforts made by the Government to evict the encroachments by treating the encroachers 
as lawbreakers and dealing with them by invoking punitive measures under the AP Forest Act 
1967 did not yield any positive results. On the contrary, such measures resulted in a situation of 
Page  3
3
conflicts and tensions among the foresters and villagers. The community of foresters lost public 
sympathy and were persona non-grata in Tribal areas. However with the advent of Joint Forest 
Management since mid 90s, there is a greater harmony between foresters and tribals. There is 
also reduction in fresh encroachments as the livelihood issues of the forest dependent 
communities are addressed. Sincere efforts were made to educate the tribals of ill effects of 
destroying forests and on unscientific and unsustainable cultivation of food crops. Concept of  
declining crop productivity; decreasing soil fertility; enhancement of soil erosion etc were also 
explained. By providing viable alternatives during the implementation of Joint Forest 
Management nearly 37000 ha of forestland under possession and cultivation of local people have 
been reclaimed through afforestation and  put under productive tree crops through VSS . 
However the above data is only an estimation, village and family specific data will have to be 
gathered during the course of site specific planning through the process of microplanning. Thus 
persuasion and motivation coupled with education have yielded positive results that could not be 
achieved through coercion. 
 
2.2 All the VSSs have been allotted forest areas for protection and development. No new land 
acquisition is envisaged during the implementation of A P Community Forest Management 
Project. Further, no physical displacement is expected during the period of A P Community 
Forest Management Project. However, the main issue in CFM will remain utilization of land in 
the forest areas for agriculture purpose. There is a likelihood of some adverse effects or impacts 
on some families and individuals as they may lose their individual occupancy of land in the 
forests to the collective management of VSS and which could  result in the loss of their 
livelihood source. It is likely that the families cultivating such forestlands individually might 
voluntarily surrender them to the VSS for Community Forest Management. In order to mitigate 
the adverse effects in such cases, there is a need to prepare a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). 
Accordingly this Resettlement Action Plan has been prepared covering all the VSSs in Andhra 
Pradesh that are implementing A P Community Forest Management Project. It also addresses the 
issue of loss of livelihood that might have occurred during implementation of Joint Forest 
Management activity. The main objective of this RAP is to describe the process of resettlement 
of people dependent on forest land that will be undertaken adopting the R& R Policy 
(Attachment 1) without limiting it to any single project. This RAP covers the entire state with 
tentative estimates having been derived from the Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA) 
taken up during the course of preparation of A P Community Forest Management Project for 
seeking financial support from the World Bank. Final assessment and figures will, however, 
change as the VSS communities prepare RAPs for individual VSS areas during the process of 
microplanning. 
 
2.3 
Revision to RAP: 
This Resettlement Action Plan is a revised version of the Resettlement 
Action Plan that was prepared during 2002 for the A P Community Forest Management Project 
as per the R&R Policy of the GOAP issued in G.O.Ms No. 10 EFS&T (For III) Dept. Dt. 
5.2.2002. Revision of this plan was necessitated to address objections raised by some NGOs. 
During Project negotiation it was agreed that thgis RAP would be revised in consultation with 
the stakeholders. The present RAP has been done after detailed consultations with all the 
stakeholders including potential affected people and local NGOs. This revision makes the 
approach applicable to JFM phase and clarifies certain expressions that were made in the earlier 
version on voluntary nature of surrender of encroached forestland This revision is also in 
Page  4
4
accordance with the agreement reached with the World Bank during project negotiation in May 
2002. It facilitates extending rehabilitation package to the affected families either on individual 
basis or on group basis depending on choice of the affected families and viability of the 
economic activity planned for rehabilitation.  
 
2.4 The present Resettlement Action Plan has been prepared to enable smooth implementation of 
the R&R Policy issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh in respect of the Vana 
Samrakshana Samithies supported under the A P Community Forest Management Project. It also 
covers the Vana Samrakshana Samithies that were supported under the earlier World Bank aided 
A
P
Forestry Project where similar reclamation of land was done.     
3.
 
Process of social assessment 
 
3.1 In order to assess the likely impacts due to the interventions, a Social Impact Assessment was 
carried out as part of the over all Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA) of the A P 
Community Forest Management Project. The SEA was carried out in a sample of 20 VSS areas 
representing different agro-climatic zones and socio-economic features of the state. Besides 
using different tools of observation, the study also carried out a census of potentially affected 
families and studied their dependence on land required for the project interventions.  
 
3.2 Assessment of impacts: As an integral part of the SEA, a 20 sample VSS areas were visited 
to assess the types of likely impacts due to the proposed interventions, extent of impact on the 
livelihood of those dependent on land and the size of the population that may be affected. 
Discussions were also held on how to deal with encroachments, and what type of support would 
be required to help those affected to restore their livelihood. An attempt was made to identify all 
encroachments in the VSS areas. This involved detailed discussions with village elders and 
knowledgeable persons about the history of encroachment, families dependency on forest lands 
and the extent of their dependence. Discussions were also held with village level government 
officials particularly from forest and revenue departments. Detailed consultations were also held 
with local Panchayat representatives. Participatory mapping was undertaken to identify the VSS 
area, families cultivating such lands and the families likely to be affected. Discussions also 
focused on the entitlement framework required to mitigate adverse impacts of the CFM. 
 
3.3 The information thus collected provided the basis for developing a broad entitlement 
framework, which was further discussed during the stakeholders consultation workshops held at 
regional and state levels. Besides the general social assessment, a census of families dependent 
on VSS forest areas was undertaken in each of the 20 VSSs covered under the SEA. Apart from 
individual interviews with the members of affected families, detailed discussions were held 
focusing on entitlement framework and plans to mitigate potential adverse impacts. Individual 
interviews were also held with members of  families that were likely to be affected to assess the 
extent of impact of the project on their socio-economic status.  Attempts were also made to 
assess the vulnerability of these encroachers particularly on their dependence on such encroached 
lands for their livelihood. Information collected from these 20 VSS areas is used as the base for 
preparing the Resettlement Action Plan. 
 
3.4 
Consultation for RAP revision:
 As part of revision of this RAP, during the months of April 
to August 2003, further detailed consultations were held with stakeholders including the families 
Page  5
5
affected or likely to be affected due to implementation of CFM. Details of the issues that 
emerged are attached (Annex I) and revisions effected in R&R policy can be seen in Annex II.  
 
3.5 
Consultation with the local VSS community including potentially afftected people will 
form an important part of project implementation, VSS facilitated by NGOs/Community 
Organizer (CO) will also carry out the process of Social Impact Assessment (SIA) as part of site 
specific planning. This process of social impact assessment will be a part of preparing Micro 
level plans at the VSS level.  
 
4. Benefits from Community Forest Management
 
4.1 Community Forest Management aims at reduction in rural poverty through improved forest 
management with community participation and increased access to forest resources. It : (i) 
directly targets the poor to reduce vulnerability and improve livelihoods with significant asset 
transfers; (ii) expands the involvement of poor in economic activities by improving access as 
well as profits from the sale of wood and non-timber forest products (NTFP); and (iii) enhances 
economic opportunities for women and other vulnerable groups with targeted training and 
income earning opportunities. The most immediate benefits would flow to tribals, landless poor 
and other forest dependent communities in the VSS areas. It will also help the communities in 
improving their village infrastructure and livelihood opportunities through forest as well as non-
forest based income generation activities.  Periodic thinning and harvest of timber, poles and 
other small wood will provide the community funds for financing local development works and 
needs as provided through G O Ms. No. 13 EFS&T (For III) Department Dt. 12.2.2002.   
 
5.
 
Impacts
 
The interventions of Community Forest Management broadly include restoring degraded forest 
resources and to make them more productive. Under CFM, VSS communities will be 
empowered to plan and implement all activities. SEA carried out in 20 VSS areas revealed that 
CFM did not involve any physical displacement of the population nor did it involve any new 
acquisition of land and structures for project interventions. However, the major issue is 
encroachments of forest lands allotted to VSS communities. Not all the VSS areas in the state 
have this problem of encroachment in forest areas, but the  issue is of significance in the northern 
coastal areas (Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram) and northern part of Telangana 
(Adilabad and Khammam) and some parts of Rayalaseema region in the state (see Annex I for 
the distribution of VSS covered under the SEA). Of the 20 VSS areas covered under the SEA, in 
8
VSS areas encroachment of forest areas assigned to VSS was seen.  In these 8 VSS areas, 
encroachment was reported mainly for agricultural purposes.  
 
6. Identifying affected area and minimizing adverse impacts
 
6.1 During the process of social assessment, the SEA team was accompanied by the staff of 
Forest and Revenue Departments. Involving village elders, forest maps were consulted  to 
Page  6
6
identify the forest area allotted to VSS. Once the VSS area was marked on the forest map, area 
under encroachment was identified. This helped to identify the project-affected families. Ground 
level identification of the affected area was carried out involving the local community to identify 
the extent of individual encroachments and families encroaching them. The results of the SEA 
and subsequent census survey of affected families in 20 VSS areas provided the base to 
extrapolate the number of families affected and develop this RAP. 
 
6.2 This RAP does not contemplate use of force in its implementation . All adversely affected 
families (see section 9.3.4 on entitlement framework) will get support to mitigate their losses. 
 
 
6.3 The data on encroachments of forestlands in 20 VSS areas covered under SEA is presented in 
Table 1. As may be seen from the data, only 8 VSS areas have reported encroachments.  In these 
8
VSS areas, there are 172 encroachments and the number varies between 9 in 
Moolaboddavaram to 39 in Nizampet. VSS areas with large number of encroachers are in 
northern coastal districts.   The total forestland reported to have been encroached in the eight 
VSS areas is 213.68 ha which gives an average encroachment of 1.24 ha per family . In 
Gandhinagaram VSS (in Visakhapatnam district), the average area encroached by a family is as 
high as 1.95 ha (4.9 acres) while the lowest average of 0.26 ha (0.6 acre) is found in 
Kanchenapalli VSS (in Medak district). The issue of encroachments in VSS areas and their 
rehabilitation is of serious nature, threatening the livelihood of some of the families dependent 
on such encroached lands. It is worthwhile to point out here that the encroachment referred to in 
this document refer to forestlands allotted to VSS and include areas under podu cultivation 
practiced within VSS boundaries.  In terms of eligibility for R&R support, all those families who 
have been in occupation of forest land allotted to VSS at the time of its constitution will be 
entitled to receive R&R assistance.    
 
Table 1:  Encroachers and extent of encroachment 
 
Source: Social and Environmental Assessment, 2001. 
6.4 All families encroaching forest lands in VSS areas are not impacted uniformly. The R&R 
policy provides for varying levels of support depending upon the type and extent of loss. Of the 
172 encroachments found in 8 VSS areas covered under SEA, 60 encroachers do not have any 
land under cultivation other than that encroached in VSS areas. In other words, these affected 
families are landless and are by and large dependent on encroached lands for their livelihood.   
VSS reporting 
encroachment 
No. of 
encroach
ers 
Area (in ha) 
encroached 
Av. area 
encroached (ha) 
Tittingvalasa 30 
13.48 0.45 
Moolaboddaru 9 7.50 
0.83 
Gandhinagram 6 11.70  1.95 
Meduru I 
32 
59.50 
1.86 
Chekkapuram 10 7.50 
0.75 
Kanchenpalli 20 
5.20  0.26 
Mohammadnagar 26 
44.80 
1.72 
Nizampet 39 
64.00 
1.64 
Total 172 
213.68 
1.248 
Page  7
7
Table 2: Land ownership among PAFs (SEA results)  
 
VSS area 
PAFs 
with 
land outside 
VSS area 
PAFs totally 
dependent on 
encroached 
land 
Total 
PAFs 
Tittingvalasa 28  2 
30 
Moolaboddaru 1 
8 9 
Gandhinagram 0 
6 6 
Meduru I 
0 
32 
32 
Chekkapuram 10 
0 
10 
Kanchenpalli 19 
1 
20 
Mohammadnagar 23 
3 
26 
Nizampet 31 
8 
39 
Total 112 
60 
172 
Source: Social and Environmental Assessment, 2001. 
6.5 Estimates have been developed based on the findings of SEA in each of the agro-forestry 
zones of the state. These estimates are presented in Table 3. These estimates indicate that about 
28% of the families are likely to be affected, as they are largely dependent on encroached lands 
for meeting their household food requirements. These estimates will get  updated during project 
implementation when social assessment would be undertaken at the individual VSS level as part 
of preparing microplans to identify affected families and prepare VSS level RAPs. 
 
6.6 During the detailed consultation with the stakeholders undertaken as part of revising RAP 
between April and August 2003, it was observed that among the affected families who 
participated in the consultation meetings, 37.57 % depended exclusively on forest land that they 
had encroached, 22.18 % had land outside VSS areas in addition forest lands encroached by 
them that are included in the VSS areas, 0.59 % were likely to lose houses and 39.66 % were 
head loaders.  
 
6.7 
Learning from the experiences and responses at the stakeholders’ meetings, it has been 
recognized that (i) majority of the families who encroached forest land in Telangana and 
Rayalaseema regions will resist surrendering land to VSS and may not even allow agro-forestry 
in such areas and (ii) significant proportion of encroachers in North coastal Andhra may also not 
surrender their encroached land to VSS but may agree for agro-forestry with agreement on 
equitable (they may even demand higher) share of produce. Therefore, only those individuals 
who are willing to surrender their encroached forest land voluntarily to VSS will be eligible to 
get support through R&R Policy (Attachment 1).   
 
7.  Profile of the affected community:
 
7.1 A profile of the encroachers, in terms of their social structure, family size, working members, 
landholding outside VSS, encroached forest lands in the VSS area, operational holding, 
household income and income from encroached land is presented in Annex I.  Expectedly, STs 
account for more than four-fifths of the total encroachers so far identified. The total population 
of the 172 families encroaching VSS land is 838, indicating an average family size of 4.9 
Page  8
8
members per family. An average of 2.6 members per family are engaged in some economic 
activity or the others and hence are workers and contribute to the household income. Illiteracy is 
still a predominant factor for the backwardness of the encroaching families. 13 families among 
the encroachers have landholding of more than 2 ha. Small and marginal farmers account for 
61.60 % of the encroachers in VSS areas. Landless among the encroachers account for nearly 
30.80 % of the families encroaching forest land. There are hardly any irrigation sources in VSS 
villages and therefore, cultivation is predominantly rain fed. On an average, the household 
income among the encroachers is around Rs. 8913/-. Taking official poverty level of Rs. 12000/- 
per annum, most of the encroachers are below poverty level implying their dependence on 
encroached lands to supplement their household economy. 
 
8. Willing participation of People and voluntary surrender of encroached forestland for 
CFM:
 
8.1 Support through RAP will be provided only to those who willingly participate in CFM and 
voluntarily surrender land under their individual possession to VSS for Community Forest 
Management. The facilitating NGO or Community Organizer (CO) will ensure that lands are 
surrendered voluntarily and not under compulsions or coercion or  pressure on the affected 
families. 
 
8.2 Wherever such voluntary surrender of encroached land takes place, all steps will be 
undertaken to document them. This will involve signing of a ‘consent letter’ by the affected 
person willing to voluntarily surrender the land to VSS and it will be witnessed by the Managing 
Committee of VSS, Sarpanch or nominee of Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat, the members of 
the VSS Advisory Council (VAC). The VSS community will, however, ensure that such persons 
are not adversely affected and they benefit from the CFM. Veracity of such ‘consent letter’ will 
be verified by the Divisional level Forestry committee. For this purpose the Divisional level 
Forestry Committee shall constitute a subcommittee for every Range comprising of the 
concerned Forest Range Officer, one facilitating NGO/CO and a nominee of ITDA (in tribal 
area) or DRDA (in other area). This sub committee will also verify the veracity of any claim of 
loss of livelihood that would have happened during implementation of JFM. Any grievances by 
the people will be resolved at the VSS level by the VSS Management Committee (MC) and 
VAC. Unresolved issues will be addressed at different levels – Forest Section, Forest Range, 
Forest Division District and state (see section 16 for further details). All affected families 
including those who surrender encroached lands will get support as per the provisions of the 
R&R policy prepared for the purpose to enable them to restore their livelihood. The legal and 
policy provisions that are available to ensure that those affected are not left worse off are 
discussed in the subsequent sections. 
 
9. Legal and policy provisions
 
9.1 The existing Land Acquisition Act (LAA) 1894, amended in 1984 and the R&R policy 
(formulated for this project) provide adequate legal and policy framework to mitigate any 
adverse impacts of the project interventions on the local population. The major features of this 
legal and policy framework are given below:  
 
Page  9
9
9.2 Land Acquisition Act:  
 
9.2.1 
Land, structures and other immovable assets are not expected for any of the activities 
under the project, however if any such eventuality arises, the same will be dealt under the LA 
Act 1894.  
9.2.2 
An important provision under the Act allows a landholder to ask for the acquisition of 
his/her remaining holding (after the LA process) if the acquisition of land renders the holding 
uneconomical or fragmented or make it unviable for operation.  
 
9.2.3   Compensation for buildings/structures: If acquisition of certain residential buildings 
becomes imperative, the same will be compensated at Basic Schedule of Rates (BSR) without 
deducting any depreciation.  The BSR in the State are decided by the Public works Department 
(PWD) and are indexed to allow for prevailing market prices.  Displaced persons shall be 
allowed to take away the building material which they can salvage from the houses at the old 
sites to make use of the same in the construction of the house in the new locations, yet there will 
be no reduction in their entitlement to compensation amount.  Transit passes will be issued by a 
competent official for carrying away wooden frames and all such articles that may warrant 
issuance of permits. Compensation for buildings/structures on Government land, even those who 
have encroached on government land and have constructed buildings or structures thereon shall 
also be paid based on the valuation estimates of the buildings/structures by the \Public Works 
Department. 
 
9.2.4 
Compensation for common properties: If land or properties belonging to the community 
or common places of worship located are acquired, compensation for such acquisition will be 
paid to facilitate construction of such structures at new places. If the community was availing of 
some facility prior to the Project, GOAP will ensure the same at the new place/ habitat or at the 
old site, as the case may be. 
 
9.2.5 
Compensation for trees:
 
Compensation for trees and other plantations will be determined 
on the basis of capitalized value of fruits, wood or timber.  The capitalized value of trees, timber 
and fruits are determined by Horticulture Department / Forest Department in their concerned 
areas.  Such evaluation is based on the type, age, diameter and yield of the tree.  The Forest 
Department, every year taking into consideration these factors, prescribes the rates. However 
trees compensated will not be felled. 
 
9.3 R&R Policy 
 
9.3.1 
 
As part of SEA, extensive consultations were held on the resettlement issues under the 
project and how to address them. This included discussions held with individual affected families 
through interviews, and discussions with village elders and community leaders. Stakeholders 
workshops were also organized on developing an entitlement framework (see section 10 for 
details on consultation process and issues discussed). Again as part of RAP revision detailed 
consultations were held between April and August 2003 with stake holders on the issue. Details 
of these are given in Annex II. Based on the results of SEA and the consultations carried out, an 
R&R policy has been formulated by the GOAP to address resettlement issues. .  
 
Page  10
10
9.3.2 
The main objective of the R&R policy (see Attachment I
 
for R&R Policy) is to avoid or 
minimise   any adverse impact and hardship to the people dependent on forestlands within a VSS 
area as a result of project interventions.   However, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided, 
the policy aims at supporting them by providing alternate opportunities to enhance or at least 
restore their livelihood.
 There will be no forcible eviction of people from encroached lands 
nor any affected person will be left worse off.
 This policy also covers those VSSs where 
similar loss of livelihood had occurred during implementation of Joint Forest Management 
before launch of Community Forest Management. 
 
9.3.3 
The affected families will be offered a package of assistance to ensure that they are 
helped to restore their livelihood. Care will be taken to ensure that women members of these 
families and / a single women among the affected category are involved in the discussions / 
decisions concerning  the RAP strategies and their concerns are addressed. Specific entitlements 
that are available to the identified affected families from the R&R Policy are as follows: 
·
Skill training and required financial arrangements for income generating (IG) 
activities 
·
Productive Asset Grant (up to Rs.25, 000) for IG activities 
·
Access to institutional credit for using financial assistance for IG activities 
·
Support from District Industries 
–Center (DIC), Khadi and Village Industries 
Corporation (KVIC) 
·
Compensation for loss of assets equivalent to cost of asset assessed   
·
Land for land, equivalent in extent of land voluntarily surrendered wherever 
government revenue or ceiling surplus land is available and acceptable.      
·
Access to government programs for socio-economic development 
Besides the above provisions, all affected families will be provided counseling and 
support in identifying suitable alternate livelihood as well as in ensuring forward and backward 
linkages. Families taking up non-farm activities will also be guided in procuring the required raw 
material and marketing of the finished products either on individual family basis or on a group 
basis. 
 
9.3.4 
R and R Entitlement Matrix:
 
Following is the entitlement framework for the families 
affected by the proposed project interventions. 
 
Category of affected families 
Mitigation measures (options for rehabilitation) 
Families with landholding 
outside VSS area losing 
encroached land (for BPL 
families) 
Assistance to improve farming in landholding outside 
project area through improved farm inputs, and other 
agriculture support  or 
Affected families will be provided support, if opted, to take 
up income generation activities.  
Families entirely dependent 
on encroached land 
Land for land (equivalent in extent of land surrendered 
voluntarily), where ever government revenue or ceiling 
surplus land is available and acceptable. Such families will 
be assisted to improve farming by providing farm inputs, 
and other agriculture support and access to agricultural 
credit or                   
Affected families will be provided support, if opted, to take 
Page  11
11
up income generation activities 
Families losing housing  
 
Provide alternate site or cash in lieu of it 
Housing under weaker section housing scheme or a 
housing construction grant. 
Transport for carrying household salvaged material. 
Head loaders 
Affected families will be provided support,  to take up 
income generation activities 
Note: The above mentioned mitigation measures will be provided on individual family basis. 
These families ( women and men of these families together) may however, on their own accord 
and depending upon the scheme chosen by them and its viability, decide to organize themselves 
into groups. In such cases entitlement will be made available to all the individual families of the 
group. Financial limits of entitlement in such cases will be sum of all entitlements of all the 
individual families of the group. 
 
9.3.5 
In addition to the impacts that have been identified so far and listed in the entitlement 
framework of the policy, if any potential negative impacts are observed  and identified, the 
project will address them under the broad principles of the agreed upon within the policy 
framework.  
 
10.
 
Consultation with the affected community
 
10.1 Involvement of affected community is vital in planning and implementing R&R programs 
to get their options for alternate livelihood and to ensure their acceptance of R&R actions 
planned. While preparing the present RAP and its revision, extensive consultations were held 
with the affected families and other stakeholders including village elders, village level 
government officials, NGOs and civil society. While the consultation methods followed to elicit 
required information are detailed below, the details of consultation including the dates, 
participants, issues raised and how these have been addressed in the R&R policy and RAP have 
been presented in Annex II 
.
Table 4: Consultations held during RAP preparation 
 
Stakeholders Method 
Project affected 
people 
Individual interviews, field level observations transect 
walks 
Local VSS and 
neighboring 
communities
Focused discussions, Village meetings, regional and 
state level stakeholders workshops 
Elected 
representatives to 
local governments 
Individual interviews, consultations on forest maps, 
regional and state level stakeholders workshops 
Page  12
12
Local forest 
officials
Joint meetings and individual consultations on forest 
maps, regional stakeho
lders workshops
Project officials and 
line departments 
Joint meetings, individual interviews and 
consultations, regional and state level stakeholders  
workshops 
NGOs/members of 
civil society
Consultations and individual meetings, regional and 
state level
stakeholders workshops
10.2 
Some of the specific issues that were raised at the time of RAP preparation and addressed 
in the RAP are:  
¨
No cash compensation to encroachers for lands encroached by them 
¨
All those who voluntarily surrender encroached forest lands should be 
supported to enable them restore their livelihood 
¨
All efforts should be made to dovetail government schemes for the 
economic rehabilitation of the affected people  
10.3 
Affected Families’ involvement in the implementation: During implementation of this 
action plan, the field level functionaries (MC of VSS, NGO/CO, VAC and village 
functionaries of the Forest Department) responsible for implementing the project at the 
VSS level with the  involvement of affected families. 
 
10.4 
VSS level functionaries including MC of VSS, facilitating NGO/CO, VAC and  field level 
functionaries of FD will ensure full participation of the affected families in each R&R 
activities as detailed out in the VSS level RAP.  
Page  13
13
11. Action Plan: 
 
The various activities that are required to be undertaken in the order of chronology for 
implementing the R&R Policy are:
 
1. Demarcation of the VSS boundary through participative process as 
specified in G O Ms. No. 13 EFS&T (For III) Department Dt. 12.2.2002 
and identifying encroached area included within the VSS boundaries; 
2.  Undertaking social impact assessment at the VSS level and identifying 
affected families. This is to be carried out through participatory process to 
be endorsed by the VSS General Body and the VSS Advisory Council; 
3.  Affected families willing to voluntarily give up their encroached forestland  
giving a written consent letter to the VSS and verification of the consent 
letters by the affected families by the Divisional level forestry committee; 
4.  Affected families voluntarily surrendering encroached forest lands or giving 
up present livelihood pattern; 
5.  Documenting such voluntary surrender of forest land or giving up of present 
livelihood pattern; 
6.  Identifying R&R Package as per entitlement framework detailed in the 
R&R Policy (Attachment 1); 
7.  Accessing R&R Grant, government schemes and institutional credit; 
8.  Extending support in the operation of income generation scheme. 
 
11.1: Demarcation of VSS boundary, identification of encroached land within VSS area: 
Planning, implementation and monitoring  
of all the components of this plan will be done through participatory process including mapping, 
transact etc.  The VSS and its MC, facilitated by the VSS Advisory council with active 
participation of facilitating NGO/CO will undertake the social impact assessment. The process 
will involve mapping of forest area allotted to the VSS, identification of the area encroached (in 
this context, area affected refers to those lands with in VSS boundaries that are encroached for 
non forestry use) and the families dependent on such lands. A list of such affected families will 
be prepared. For each of these families, an assessment of their dependence on encroached land, 
in terms of the extent of area encroached, area owned and cultivated, income levels and the 
returns from the encroached land, will also be made. Individual R&R entitlements will be 
determined as per the criteria laid out in the R&R policy (Attachment 1). 
 
11.2 
Affected Families voluntarily surrendering land: Action will be initiated only if the 
affected families voluntarily surrender land in their individual possession that is included in the 
VSS area. For this purpose they (women and men members of the family concerned) will be 
required to give a written undertaking or ‘consent letter’ to the concerned VSS chairperson who 
will forward it to the DFO through the social development specialist nominated for each 
division (of the rank of Sub DFO / FRO). Such signing of a ‘consent letter’ by the affected 
family will be witnessed by the Managing Committee of VSS, Sarpanch or nominee of 
Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat, the members of the VSS Advisory Council (VAC). The VSS 
community will, however, ensure that such persons are not adversely affected and that they 
benefit from the CFM. Veracity of such ‘consent letter’ will be verified by the Divisional level 
Page  14
14
Forestry committee. For this purpose the Divisional level Forestry Committee shall constitute a 
subcommittee for every Range comprising of the concerned Forest Range Officer, one 
facilitating NGO/CO and a nominee of ITDA (in tribal area) or DRDA (in other area). This sub 
committee will also verify the veracity of any claim of loss of livelihood that would have 
happened during implementation of JFM.   
 
11.3  Issuing notices not to take up sowing: After the identification of the affected area and the 
affected people, and after approval of R&R entitlements as detailed in para 11.4, VSS will issue 
notices to individual affected family to refrain them from further sowing in the VSS area. These 
notices will specify that they would be responsible for any loss of crop during project 
implementation. This is to ensure that the families who receive and utilize the R&R package do 
not resort to the earlier livelihood pattern of encroaching forest land that they had voluntarily 
surrendered. 
 
11.4 
Extending R&R entitlements: No R&R entitlement will be paid in cash. For procurement 
of productive asset, the choice of the affected family will be obtained and the asset will be 
procured and supplied by the FD. Payment for the asset procured will be made by the DFO 
directly to the supplier of asset. Funds needed for training required will be made available to the 
identified training centre or the respective resource person/s. This payment will also be made 
directly by the DFO. Funds required for working capital will be deposited in bank account to be 
operated jointly by the head of the family of the affected person and Chairperson of the 
respective VSS. In case of group based economic activity, each group should elect a leader and 
the joint account will be in the name of group leader and the chairperson of the respective VSS.  
The  MC of VSS and facilitating NGO /CO will have a major responsibility in providing the 
necessary guidance and help in identifying suitable alternative livelihood and income generation 
activities. Basing on the choice of the affected family/families the MC of the VSS duly 
consulting the VSS Advisory council will identify the viable income generation activity, 
formulate proposals and send to the DFO through the FRO and Sub DFO for approval. The 
DFO will scrutinize the proposal and accord approval. He will also take necessary action to link 
up required additional financial support from commercial banks, khadi and village industries 
commission, other Governmental schemes etc.  
 
11.5 Economic 
rehabilitation: 
 
 
11.5.1 Employment during CFM implementation: All affected families will be given wage 
employment on preferential basis during the process of CFM interventions at the VSS level 
including watch and ward of the forest areas, plantation activities, thinning operations etc. For 
this purpose, facilitating NGO/CO will prepare a labour pool profile, comparing skills and types 
of job executed and along with MC members of VSS ensure that the affected persons get 
employment opportunities.  
 
11.5.2 Identification of alternate economic activities including group based income generation 
activities: Facilitating NGO/CO will analyze the type of economic activities being carried out in 
the area, specify existing demand for products and services, the general availability of labour and 
other resources, profitability, present marketing practices and relationships. It is also necessary 
that an inventory of existing banks, savings and credit organizations and any informal 
Page  15
15
institutional arrangements for encouraging savings and for providing start-up or expansion 
capital is also made. Information so gathered will provide the base for preliminary identification 
of potential income-restoration measures. 
 
11.5.3 Assessing feasibility of IG activities: Based on the above information, NGO/CO will 
assess the feasibility of these activities in a given area and prepare a shelf of suitable income 
generation activities. NGO/CO will facilitate the affected families to select the activity preferred 
by them. 
 
11.5.4  Assessing training needs: NGO/CO will assess the training needs of the affected families 
for the alternate economic activities selected by them, identify resource persons or training 
institutions and organize training programs to equip them with the required skills. No economic 
activity will be undertaken unless the affected persons have the required skills.  
 
11.5.5  Accessing government schemes: NGO/CO with the help of members of MC of VSS and 
GP will help the affected families to access government schemes. In this process, the FD 
functionaries, particularly the Forest Range Officer (FRO) and Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) 
will have major responsibilities to ensure that the affected families are covered under the on-
going government programs. This requires that these functionaries work closely with District 
Collectors and Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs) for inclusion of the affected people under 
government schemes. Similar efforts will be required to help affected families access 
institutional credit. Forest Committees at the divisional and district level will help coordinate 
these efforts and ensure that the affected families are supported under the government schemes. 
NGO/CO along with field level functionaries of FD will ensure forward and backward linkages 
for the activities undertaken by the affected people. RAPs prepared at the VSS level will include 
arrangements (and indicators) for monitoring the effectiveness of income restoration measures, 
and will have provisions to modify  plans found to be ineffective. 
 
12. 
RAP approval process  
 
12.1 
RAP will form an integral part of the Micro plan prepared at the VSS level. Its 
implementation will be synchronized with the physical activities planned under the Micro plan. 
No physical activity including plantation will take place unless all entitlements are extended and 
the process of economic rehabilitation has started. Voluntary surrender of land will be well 
documented and will be checked on a sample basis by an external agency that will be engaged 
to undertake monitoring of R&R component of the APCFM Project. The responsibility of 
approving RAP as part of Micro plan will be with the DFO. The FRO at the district level 
responsible for R&R activities under the project will ensure that RAPs conform to the R&R 
policy provisions. . 
 
12.2 
At the state level, the Social Development Specialist in the PMU will be responsible to 
ensure that RAPs prepared at the VSS level are in accordance with the agreed R&R policy of 
the project.  
 
13. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
Page  16
16
13.1 
The institutional arrangements for the preparation and implementation of RAP involves 
the availability of the required staff at different levels as described below. Since this is a 
community driven development project, this requires intensive working with the local forest 
communities. For this purpose, NGOs will be engaged to facilitate the process. In areas where 
suitable NGOs are not available, Community Organizers will be engaged to help functionaries 
of FD to work with the forest communities.  
 
13.2 
At the State level, the responsibility of monitoring the planning and implementation of 
the resettlement programs will be with the Social Unit with in the Project Management Unit. The 
head of this Unit will be a Social Development Specialist of the rank of Deputy Conservator of 
Forests / Assistant Conservator of Forests. This unit will coordinate with the DFOs and the line 
departments to ensure smooth implementation of the resettlement activities under the project.  
 
13.3 
At the forest divisional level, the concerned DFO will coordinate the resettlement 
activities. For concerted efforts, the Sub DFO or a Forest Range Officer (FRO) will be 
designated to coordinate and supervise planning and implementing R &R activities in  a division.  
He will also provide guidance to the VSS level VAC and NGO/CO. 
 
13.4 
At the VSS level, planning and implementing R&R activities will be the responsibility of 
the concerned VSS. To facilitate this process, there will be a VAC comprising of the concerned 
FSO, FBO or Assistant BO, the Panchayat Sarpanch, representative of the ITDA, the Village 
Secretary, the NGO/CO actively involved in assisting the V.S.S., and Village School 
Headmaster/Headmistress.  The Panchayat Sarpanch will chair the VAC meetings. If for any 
reason he / she is unable to attend the meeting the FSO will preside over the VAC meeting. This 
council will also help in assessing the availability of government land for families opting for land 
and also in accessing government schemes in the area. 
.
13.5 
Although no new land acquisition is envisaged, if any eventuality arises, acquisition of 
land and other immovable properties is the responsibility of the Revenue Department of GOAP. 
At the district level, this is carried out by the District Collector through a designated Land 
Acquisition Officer.  
 
13.6 
The organizational set up for planning, implementing and monitoring R&R activities 
under the project is presented in the flow chart (Annex III). 
 
14. 
Role of NGOs/Community organizers
 
Wherever suitable NGOs are available, they will be involved
 
in planning, implementing and 
monitoring of the Resettlement Action Plan.  If  suitable NGOs are not available, in such areas 
Community Organizers will be engaged to assist VSS in planning and implementing Micro 
plans including resettlement activities.     
 
15. 
Capacity building to handle R&R activities
 
15.1 
Since most of the staff in FD at all levels (state, district, divisions, range and VSS) and 
functionaries of NGO and CO will have little exposure to R&R issues, they will be trained in 
skills required to handle resettlement activities. Besides, FD staff at different levels, NGO 
functionaries and COs, VSS management committee members and other field level functionaries 
Page  17
17
of departments of tribal development and rural development associated with the project will also 
be trained on different aspects of R&R issues related to CFM. The training modules to be 
developed will focus on:                
¨
policies and procedures in LA and R&R 
¨
undertaking social impact assessment 
¨
conducting census surveys of affected families 
¨
preparing RAP 
¨
economic rehabilitation of the affected people 
¨
data base management for M&E of R&R programs  
 
15.2 
A consultant will be engaged to assess the training needs and prepare training modules 
and material. Training will be organized both at the state and district levels. Each training 
module will be repeated to cover a large number of those associated with R&R activities under 
the project. Besides, customized training will be organized in reputed training institutions, both 
within the state and outside for FD staff associated with R&R activities under the project.  
 
15.3 
In addition, exposure visits will also be organized for the staff of FD to project sites 
within the state and outside where R&R programs are being managed successfully. 
 
15.4 
Good practices will be identified during preparation and implementation of R&R 
program under the project and these will be documented and disseminated widely among 
project functionaries, NGOs, COs and VSS. Director A P Forest Academy Dullapalli in FD will 
coordinate this. 
 
15.5 
 An external agency for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) engaged under the AP CFM 
Project will develop a data base, train FD staff, at state, district and divisional levels, in 
managing the data base and its periodic updating, and assist in preparing data formats and 
monitoring reports. 
 
16.
 
Grievance Redressal  mechanism
 
All grievances related to land acquisition will be resolved through the provisions available in the 
LAA, 1894. However, for issues related to R&R activities, a grievance redressal mechanism is 
already in place at different levels. At the VSS level, its Management Committee and VAC will 
help resolve any grievances of affected families.  At the Forest Section level, grievances will be 
addressed by the FSO. Forest Committees (with representations from VSS, Panchayat Raj 
Institutions, NGOs and concerned line departments) already working at the levels of  ITDA/  
Forest Division and the District, will also help finding solutions for issues that are not resolved 
satisfactorily at the VSS  and Forest Section levels. Constitution of these committees are 
attached as Annex IV. Besides, the Social Development Specialist at the divisional level and 
NGO/CO will also assist the affected community in resolving their problems by referring them 
to the relevant agencies. The NGO/CO will record the grievances of the affected people and 
present the same in the forest committees for resolution.  
There is a state level Independent Advisory Group comprising of people of eminence in the 
areas of law and justice, social development, rural development and forestry to look into 
grievances arising out of implementing R&R related activities and advise the FD on suitable 
Page  18
18
actions to be taken to redress them and monitor the same. Composition and TOR for this group 
are attached in Attachment 2.  
Page  19
19
Grievance Redress Mechanism 
 
Affected Family 
 
Grievances  
 
Not redressed 
 
 
       Not addressed 
 
Not addressed  
Not addressed 
 
Not addressed 
 
Not addressed 
 
Village Advisory 
Council/VSS 
ITDA level Forest 
Committee 
Forest Divisional 
Committee 
District Level 
Committee 
Redressed
Redressed
Redressed
Redressed
Forest Beat 
or Section 
FRO / DFO
FRO / DFO
CFO / DFO
Independent 
Advisory Group 
PMU
Not redresse
d
Page  20
20
17.
 
Monitoring and evaluation
 
17.1 Internal monitoring: M&E of R&R activities planned under RAP is necessary to monitor 
the progress, identify bottlenecks, take up corrective measures and thus ensure adequate and 
timely implementation of RAP at the VSS as well as Project level. This provides adequate 
feedback to make necessary changes in the plan and update the database. The monitoring will 
be both internal and external. At the project level, the PMU through the Social Development 
Specialist will carry out conventional internal monitoring focusing on physical and financial 
aspects. At the divisional levels, this responsibility lies with the DFOs and the Sub DFO/FRO 
designated for R&R activities. 
 
17.2 At the VSS level, the VSS along with representatives of affected families will be 
responsible to monitor the implementation at the VSS level. In this process, VSS will be 
assisted by the FD functionaries and NGO/CO at the field level.   
 
17.3 
External monitoring: An external M&E agency engaged for the A P CFM Project will 
also be responsible to monitor the implementation of R&R component of the project. 
Monitoring R&R component in other areas will be done by the PMU. This agency will also 
develop reporting formats to be used at different levels. These formats will have compatibility 
with the formats used for computer based data base management. The external agency will also 
be responsible for developing database and its periodic updating. This agency will also train FD 
staff at the state, district and divisional levels, in managing the computer based data 
management and its periodic updating. The external agency will submit its periodic monitoring 
reports at half yearly interval and two evaluation reports 
–
project mid-term and end evaluation    
 
17.4 
Monitoring indicators: A set of indicators have been identified and presented in Annex V. 
However, the external M&E agency for the project  will also be monitor  the implementation of 
R&R activities under the project, will update the monitoring parameters and develop monitoring 
formats to be used at different levels   
.
18. Implementation schedule
 
18.1 The immediate activities that are planned are establishing a Social Unit within PMU at the 
state level and post a Social Development Specialist to coordinate all R&R activities under the 
project at the state level. At the same time, in all those divisions where project activities will be 
initiated in the first year of the project, a Sub DFO/ FRO will be designated and made 
responsible for R&R activities GOAP will also contract NGO/CO in such areas where project 
activities are proposed to be undertaken in the first year of the project for monitoring RAP 
activities. These staff along with NGO/CO will facilitate VSS to undertake social impact 
assessment and prepare VSS based RAPs as part of Micro plans. Before the VSS initiate social 
impact assessment and prepare RAPs, training programs will be organized to equip them with 
required skills. Similarly, no income generation activities will be established unless the required 
training has been organized for the affected people. The detailed implementation schedule is 
shown in Table 5.   
 
Redressed
Page  21
21
19. Costs and budget:
 
The experience of motivating tribals who had encroached forest lands to give up agriculture on 
such lands and to bring them under productive tree cropping has given positive results in the 
North coastal Andhra Pradesh, especially in Visakhapatnam district. As already stated, nearly 
37000 ha of encroached forestland was reclaimed through afforestation. This issue was 
deliberated in the various stakeholders’ workshops. Based on the experience of dealing with such 
situations during implementation of Joint Forest Management and the deliberations of the 
stakeholders workshops, it is estimated that not more than 50% of the encroachers would give up 
encroached land and take to alternate livelihood opportunities. Therefore, the tentative budgeting 
for this RAP is prepared presuming that 50% of encroachments and livelihood patterns are likely 
to be voluntarily surrendered in favor of VSS for CFM This estimate also includes similar 
eventuality that would have happened during implementation of Joint Forest Management.  Out 
of 5000 VSSs included in the APCFMP, SEA and microplanning has been taken up in those 
VSSs that do not trigger R&R Policy and RAP.  This process has been initiated and completed in 
4247 VSSs so far (by December 2003). The remaining 753 VSSs are likely to attract 
implementation of R&R Policy and RAP. As seen from the data gathered during SEA for 
preparation of APCFMP, 8 VSSs reported families likely to be adversely affected due to 
implementation of this Project. These 8 VSSs reported 172 PAFs likely to be affected. Thus 
considering the average of 21.5 families per VSS (172 families in 8 VSSs), anticipated families 
likely to be affected in 753 VSSs is 16190. Going by the previous experience and as already 
stated above 50% of these families only are likely to voluntarily give up their present in favour 
of VSSs. In view of this, this RAP provides for rehabilitation grant and livelihood opportunities 
to an estimated 8095  families. The figures will be updated during the course of implementation 
of RAP will be revised accordingly. The details of rehabilitation measures are given below. 
 
19.1 
The cost items and norms used in developing the budget for R&R are as follows: 
¨
VSS undertaking social impact assessment (SIA) and preparing RAP  
¨
Provision for skill training at Rs 1,000 per affected family. It will be provided 
to one adult member of the family. 
¨
Rehabilitation grant (up to Rs 25,000) for IG activity for each affected family  
¨
Rehabilitation grant for group based income generation activities in respect of 
those VSSs where forest treatment on encroached forestlands had already 
happened during implementation of Joint Forest Management will be Rs. 
25,000. This includes amount for providing assets and working capital 
wherever required.  
¨
Capacity building (of FD staff, functionaries of NGO/CO, MC members of 
VSS, and other village level government functionaries concerned with R&R 
activities) at Rs 600 per VSS member and Rs 3,000 per trainee (staff and 
NGO/CO functionaries) 
¨
External M&E agency to review and monitor all RAPs (This requirement is 
included in the Consultancy on Independent M&E of the Project). 
¨
Contracting an HRD agency to assess training needs, and develop training 
modules and materials 
¨
Contingency is built in the costs. 
 
Page  22
22
19.2 
The details of the budget over the project period is presented in Table 6.  The budget for 
R&R activities at the VSS level will form an integral part of Micro Plan and other costs 
will come from the project. 
Page  23
23
Table 5: RAP implementation schedule (for APCFM Project. For other VSSs, RAP s will be 
prepared and implemented along with microplans) 
Project 
activities 
2003-04 2004-05 
2005-06 
2006-07 
   
Planning process (though planning process will be taken up in all the 5000 VSSs, 
RAP related planning will be taken up only in those VSSs that trigger implementation 
of R&R Policy. This is likely in 753 of the 5000 VSSs). 
SIA initiated 
(No. of VSS) 
4247 753 
      
SIA completed 
(No. of VSS) 
4247 753 
      
RAP completed 
(No. of VSS) 
 753 
 
 
 
 
RAPs approved 
by DFO (No.) 
 
753  
 
 
 
Institutional 
Establishing a 
SD Unit in 
PMU 
Established  
 
 
 
 
Posting of 
Social 
Development 
Specialists in 
PMU  
Posted  
 
 
   
Designating Sub 
DFO/FRO at the 
district level for 
R&R activities 
(No.) 
Designated  
 
 
 
 
Equipping SD 
units at 
state/district 
levels 
Completed  
 
 
 
 
Engaging 
NGO/CO (No.) 
Engaged  
 
 
 
 
 
Contracting 
consultant for 
training need 
assessment 
January 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Contracting an 
external M&E 
agency 
Engaged  
 
 
 
 
Capacity building 
Preparing 
training manual 
March  2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Page  24
24
and material 
Training FD 
staff &  
NGO/CO 
June 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Training VSS 
members 
June 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure trips 
September 
2004 
 
Documenting 
good practices  
 June 
2005 
 
 
 
 
Developing data 
base and 
management  
March 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Implementation of RAP 
No. of VSS 
Where PAFs 
surrendering 
land (753) 
 2004-05 
 
 
 
 
Issuing notices 
to prohibit 
sowing on 
encroached land 
 2004-05 
 
 
 
 
PAFs extended 
R&R 
entitlements  
 2004-05 
 
 
 
 
Organizing 
training for IGS 
 
Facilitating 
access to credit 
and market 
 
IG activities 
established 
(No.) 
 
Monitoring IG 
activities  
 
Page  25
25
Budget for R&R component: 
An amount of Rs 207.42 million is needed for meeting required 
for the activities contemplated. Details are given in below.
 
R&R 
activity 
Unit 
cost 2003-04 
2004-05 
2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 
Total 
Phy Fin Phy Fin Phy Fin 
Ph
y
Fin Phy Fin Phy Fin 
SIA and 
VSS base 
RAP 
preparation 
0.00
5Per 
VSS 
Included in micro-planning. No separate budget. 
R&R grant 
to PAF 
0.02
5
Per 
PAF 00.00
00.0
0
8095 
202.
375 0.00 0.00 
0.0
0
0.00 0.00  
8095 
202.
375 
Training 
need 
assessment, 
developmen
t
of
training 
modules 
and training 
material 
 
0.02
0.08
0.10
Training to 
PAFs in 
skill 
upgradation 
for IGA and 
for utilizing 
RR Grant 
for 2 
members 
per PAF 
Ls 00.00
00.0
0
1610 
2.41
5
1610
0,80
5
16
10 
0.80
5
0.00
1610
4/02
5
Training to 
NGOs 
Ls 
   200 
0.30 
200 
0.10 
 
   200 
0.40 
Training to 
FD 
functionarie
s
Ls 
   100 
0.15 
100 
0.05 
 
   100 
0.20 
Engaging 
M&E 
agency 
Included in hiring M&E consultant for Project monitoring. No separate budget for RAP. 
Total 
 
0.20
205.
32  
0.95
5
0.80
5
207.
10 
Page  26
26
Annex I 
 
Socio-economic profile of Project Affected Families 
 
Distribution of PAFs by social group 
 
VSS reporting 
encroachment 
ST SC BC/OC 
Total 
Tittingvalasa 30 
-- 
-- 
30 
Moolaboddaru 9 
-- 
-- 
9 
Gandhinagram 5 
-- 
1 
6 
Meduru I 
32 
-- 
-- 
32 
Chekkapuram 10 
-- 
-- 
10 
Kanchenpalli -- 
-- 
20 
20 
Mohammadnagar 21 
3 
2 
26 
Nizampet 29 
1 
9 
39 
Total 136 
4 
32 
172 
Population and working members 
 
VSS reporting 
encroachment 
Total 
population 
Av. 
Family 
size 
Total 
working 
members
Av. Working 
members/family
Tittingvalasa 117 
3.9 
59 
2.0 
Moolaboddaru 47 5.2 
22 
2.3 
Gandhinagram 27 5.4 
14 
2.8 
Meduru I 
135 
4.2 
79 
2.5 
Chekkapuram 48 
4.8 
28 
2.8 
Kanchenpalli 155 
7.7 
87 
4.3 
Mohammadnagar
125 4.1 64 
2.1 
Nizampet 184 
4.4 
92 
2.3 
Total 838 
4.9 
445 
2.6 
Distribution of families by landholding size 
 
No. of families by landholding size 
VSS 
reporting 
encroachment 
Landless 
Upto 1 
ha 
1-2 ha 
>2 ha 
Total 
Tittingvalasa 2 
19  9  0  30 
Moolaboddaru 8 
1 
0 
0 
9 
Gandhinagram 6 
0 
0 
0 
6 
Meduru I 
32 
0 
0 
0 
32 
Chekkapuram 0 
6 
4 
0 
10 
Kanchenpalli 1 
6 
12 1  20 
Mohammadnagar
3
3
15
5
26
Nizampet 8 20 
6 
5 
39 
Total 60 
55 
46 
11 
172 
Page  27
27
Operational holding and extent of encroachment 
 
VSS 
reporting 
encroachment 
Total 
Operational
Holding 
(ha) 
Owned 
Land 
under 
cultivation 
(ha) 
Encroached 
Land (ha) 
%
of
owned 
land to 
operational 
holding  
%
of
encroached 
land to 
operational 
holding 
Tittingvalasa 
37.33 23.85 13.48 63.89 36.11 
Moolaboddaru 8.00 0.50 7.50 6.25 93.75 
Gandhinagram 11.70 
-- 
11.70 
--  100.00 
Meduru 
I 
76.50 17.00 59.50 22.22 77.78 
Chekkapuram 13.25 5.75 7.50 43.40 56.60 
Kanchenpalli 27.90 
22.70 5.20 81.36 
18.64 
Mohammadnagar
84.00 39.20 44.80 46.66 53.30 
Nizampet 108.25 
49.25 
64.00 
45.50 
59.12 
Total 
366.93 158.25 213.68  36.49 
58.24 
Extent of dependence on encroached land 
 
VSS reporting 
encroachment 
Household 
earning 
(Rs.) 
Return From 
Encroached 
Land (Rs.) 
%
of
returns from 
encroached land to total 
HH income  
Tittingvalasa 301500 53000 
17.58 
Moolaboddaru 60600  11700 
19.30 
Gandhinagram 41800 
5800 
13.86 
Meduru I 
118000 
36000 
30.75 
Chekkapuram 39900 13300 
33.33 
Kanchenpalli 505100 67500 
13.36 
Mohammadnagar 184700 
48600 
26.31 
Nizampet 281500 
180000 
63.94 
Total 1533100 
415900 27.12 
Distribution of families by income level 
 
No. of families by levels of income 
VSS reporting 
encroachment 
No. 
of 
PAFs 
<11,000 11,001 
to 
15,000 
15,001 
to 
20,0000
>20,000 
Tittingvalasa 30 
23 7  0 
0 
Moolaboddaru 9  9 
0 
0 
0 
Gandhinagram 6  6 
0 
0 
0 
Meduru I 
32 
30 
1 
1 
0 
Page  28
28
Chekkapuram 10 10 
0 
0 
0 
Kanchenpalli 20 2  1  7  10 
Mohammadnagar
26 26 
0 
0 
0 
Nizampet 39 
33 
6 
0 
0 
Total 172 
139 
15 
8 
10 
Distribution of families by the % of income from encroached land 
 
No. of families by % of income from 
encroached land 
VSS reporting 
encroachment 
No. 
of 
PAFs 
<10% 10-25%
25-50% >50% 
Tittingvalasa 30 
6 
20 
4 0 
Moolaboddaru 9 1 8 0 0 
Gandhinagram 6 2 4 0  0 
Meduru I 
32 
0 
1 
19 
12 
Chekkapuram 10 
0 2 8 0 
Kanchenpalli 20 
5 12 2 1 
Mohammadnagar 26 
7 
17 
0 
2 
Nizampet 39 
4 
12 
16 
7 
Total 172 
25 
76 
49 
22 
Page  29
29
Annex II   
Consultation with affected community and other stakeholders 
Det
ails of stakeholders’ consultation during RAP preparation
 
As a part of the preparation of A.P. Community Forest Management Project, workshops 
have been held with the various stakeholders to elicit their suggestions and recommendations for 
the future project.  The agencies that have held these workshops are: a) NIRD Hyderabad, the 
consultant appointed to conduct the Social and Environmental Assessment, b) M/s OM 
Consultants, Bangalore appointed to conduct Institutional Assessment Study, c) Center For 
World Solidarity, Hyderabad an NGO and d) the Forest Department. The NIRD held two state 
level workshops and three regional workshops, OM consultants held one state level Workshop, 
Center for World Solidarity held one state level workshop and four regional workshops and the 
forest department held two regional workshops. Besides these workshops, individual interviews 
with the potential affected families, focus group discussions, participatory mapping, transect 
walk, discussions with villages level knowledgeable persons, representatives of local bodies, 
VSS members, etc, were also held. The following table provides pertinent information on the 
issues discussed and views obtained during the stakeholders workshop on different aspects of the 
project including R&R.  
 
Participants 
Workshop
Place Date 
Districts 
covered 
FD 
officials 
NGOs 
VSS 
Members 
Total 
Parti-
cipants
Workshops conducted by NIRD 
State Level 
Dullapalli 
SFA 
6.9.01 
     -- 
32 
2 
     -- 
34 
Regional 
–I Tirupathi 
12.9.01 
Chittoor 
Cuddapah 
Nellore 
32 4 4 
48 
Regional –II 
Mancherial 
19.10.01
Nizamabad 
Adilabad 
Khammam 
Medak 
31 5 19  55 
Regional-III Rajahmundry 
22.10.01
Visakhapatnam 
Srikakulam 
Vizianagaram 
36 6 13  55 
State Level 
Dullapalli 
SFA 
2.11.01 
   All districts  
22 
2 
6 
30 
Workshops conducted by OM consultants 
State Level 
Work shop 
Dullapalli 
SFA 
31-8-
2001 
All districts 
60 
 
 
 60  
Workshops conducted by Center for World Solidarity 
State level  
Hyderabad 
18-07-
01 
 
14 
43  
26  
83 
Regional level  
Visakhapatnam
26-6-
2001 
Srikakulam, 
Vizianagaram 
50 50 
39 
139 
Page  30
30
and 
Visakhapatnam
Regional  level 
Warangal  
29-6- 
2001  
Warangal, 
Karimnagar 
and Khammam 
23  
5 
50  
78 
Regional level 
Nirmal 3-7-
2001 
Adilabad, 
Nizamabad 
and Medak  
47 25 
86 
158 
Regional level  
Cuddapah 
6-7-
2001 
Cuddapah, 
Chittoor and 
Nellore  
38 13 
86 
137 
Workshops Conducted by the Forest Department 
Regional 
Work 
Shop 
Warangal 22-11-
2000 
Telangana and 
Andhra 
Regions 
65  
 65 
Regional 
Workshop 
Tirupathi 30-11-
2000 
Rayalaseema 
Region 
46  
 46 
2. Consultations with stakeholders’ for revising RAP during 2003:
 In addition to the above 
workshops that were held before preparing the AP Community Forest Management Project series 
of consultation meetings were conducted during April to August 2003 on the R&R Policy. In all 
134 meetings were held on the issue. 10061 VSS members including those affected or likely to 
be affected, 602 NGOs and 2816 Officers and staff participated in these meetings. Of the 
members likely to be affected, 37.57% were found to be dependent exclusively on forestlands 
that they had encroached, 22.18% had lands outside the VSS forests in addition to forestlands 
occupied them in the VSSs, 39.66% were head-loaders and 0.59% were likely to lose houses. 
The R&R Policy that was prepared for the A P Community Forest Management Project was 
discussed at length during these meetings. These meetings were conducted for having detailed 
deliberations on the issues regarding R&R Policy and the Resettlement Action Plan that was 
prepared as part of A P Community Forest Management Project, examine it critically and come 
up with suggestions for its further improvement to establish a mechanism to ascertain voluntary 
nature of relinquishment especially of encroachments of forest lands in VSS areas and to widen 
the scope of the R&R Policy and Resettlement Action Plan to cover all the VSSs irrespective of 
source of funding and to cover similar eventualities that would have occurred during 
implementation of Joint Forest Management.
Page  31
31
Details of Participants at various consultation meetings is given below: 
 
Number of participants 
Sl.no
Consultation 
level 
No. of 
consultations
VSS/Affected 
people 
NGOs FD 
Staff 
Total 
1
Range 90  4815 198 
1040
6053 
2
Division 34 
3992 243 
1199
5434 
3
Circle 9 1144 
124 
477 
1745 
4
State 1 110 
37 
100 
237 
Total  
134 10061 602 
2816
13469 
Page  32
32
Revision of R&R Policy - Profile of Participants
4986
4965
565
2716
PAF (likely) - 37.69%
Other VSS members - 37.53%
NGOs - 4.26%
Officials - 20.52%
The existing R&R Policy specifying packages for different categories of affected people 
prepared in Telugu was circulated to the stakeholders for discussions. 
PROFILE OF PAF
39.66%
37.57%
22.18%
0.59%
Dependent on Podu land only
Podu in RF + own land
outside RF
House in RF
Head loader
Page  33
33
State level consultation meeting:        
After consultations with stakeholders at division level a state level meeting was conducted on 
18.8.2003 at Hyderabad. The stakeholders who participated in the earlier meetings at range, 
division and circle level have participated in the state level meeting  
Opinions of the stakeholders in Range, Division and Circle level meetings: 
Division: Nirmal 
Participant Observation 
B.Kalyan,  
The affected families are very poor and they are dependent exclusively on the 
land encroached. 
Shankar,  
The encroachers are completely dependent on the forestland.  They are not 
ready to leave the encroached land because they are not having any other 
livelihood. 
Division: Adilabad 
Participant Observation 
Laxmibai  
200 Acres land is under occupation. If irrigation facilities are provided in their 
patta land,they are ready to leave  the occupied land. 
H.K.Jhaku   
Willing to surrender the land if any land or benefits are provided  to him. 
Muthyam Reddy    
Due to illegal fellings the forests are reducing day by day and requested all the 
members to adopt the R&R policy which is very good. 
Laxman    
About 520 Acres of land is under cultivation since 1972. If they are given (5) 
Acre patta each they are ready to surrender the remaining encroached land. 
Motiram,  
Occupied land is more. If irrigation facility is provided to patta land they are 
ready to handover the occupied land 
Ramulu,  
40-50 Acres of land is under occupation. Not willing to hand over this occupied 
land 
Porushuram  
If sufficient water facility will be provided at a plot, they are willing to 
handover this occupied land. 
R.Krishna,  
Some persons are completely dependent on the occupied land. If alternate 
support can be provided they are ready to handover the land. 
Sajeev Rao,    
The policy introduced by the Govt is very good and each & every person 
should understand the policy and handover the land 
Gamgaram,  
He  is earning Rs.25000/- per annum from the occupied land of (5) Acres. If the 
Government provides Bore well he is willing to spare (2) Acres land to VSS 
K.Bondu,  
He encroached 3 acre land in addition to the10 acres patta land he possess. If 
irrigation facility is provided to patta land he is  willing to handover the 
encroached land.  
Beershaw  
He has occupied 10 acresof land , out of which  he is willing to spare 5 acres 
for raising  plantation. 
Page  34
34
Shanker 
He encroached 8 acre land in addition to the 8 acres patta land he possess. If 
irrigation sources are provided to patta land he is ready to surrender the entire 
occupied land.  
Sakru bai,  
Not willing to spare the occupied land 
Athram Ramu,  
No body is willing to spare the occupied land, but (3) persons are willing to 
spare to the extent of 10-12 acres 
P.Gangaram  
 Each family in the VSS is ready to surrender 6 acres out of the encroached 
10 acre land to Forest Department. He wants  to raise plantations of fruit trees 
like mango, Sitapal, Neem etc. 
K.Dongu Rao  
He has agreed to hand over the encroached land to Forest Department if 
another agriculture land is given to them or plantations of fruit trees are 
raised 
P.Noor Singh  
He has agreed to hand over the encroached land to Forest Department if 
another agriculture land is given to them or monetary support is extended. 
M.Maruthi    
He stated that the encroached land will be given to Forest Department 
subject to discussion with their general body at their village level.They are 
ready to give only part of the encroached land retaining part of it. The 
Department should provide irrigation facility to the land retained by them. 
N.Jangu  
He stated that out of 15 Acres land encroached by each family in their VSS. 
all are ready to give 10 Acres to Forest Department subject to providing 
irrigation facility to the balance 5 Acres land retain by them. 
A.Bheem Rao  
He stated that they are ready to give encroached lands provided  they are 
rehabilitated  & resettled at a better place. 
Page  35
35
Division: Bellampally 
 
Participant Observation 
Alumula 
Bheemaiah 
Does not want to loose his encroahced land but agreed to protect adjacent 
forest area 
Raju master 
Rehabilitation land may be provided nearer to Sungapur Project 
K.Keshav 
Not willing to handover the podu land 
Sedam Raju 
Not willing to handover the podu land but willing to assist Forest Dept. in 
protecting the forests 
D.Narayana 
Willing to surrender 50% of podu lands for rehabilitation. 
B.Pochaiah 
Land may be provided to construct the houses 
A.Shanker 
Expressed doubt as how the Govt. can provide rehabilitation. 
D.Mallaiah 
Expressed doubt as how the Govt. can provide rehabilitation. 
K.Rajaiah 
The Govt. should  show the alternate land for rehabilitation immediately . 
A.Chinnakka 
Alternate land may be provided in lieu of podu land 
Mallesh, 
Compensation of  the podu land may be provided with wet lands 
Jangu bai  
If any individual is not satisfied with the compensation provided in leiu of 
podu land, the incumbent may be permitted to continue with podu 
cultivation. 
Ada Thirupathi 
rao  
Due to poverty and daily wages people are resorting to head loads smuggling. 
If the govt. provides alternate resources no.of  headloads smuggled  may 
come down. 
Division: Jannaram 
Are 
Dubbarajam 
I
bring 16 bamboos per day to make mats daily. From this we get Rs.50 per 
week. If loan is sanctioned I will open a  Kiranashop/purchase an Auto for 
my livelihood and stop this practice. 
Maddikunta 
Shanker 
For my livelihood I get bamboo from forest. If 1-Acre land is provided 
along with two oxen and plough, I will not bring bamboo. 
K.China 
Bheemaiah 
For my livelihood I bring 16 bamboos for which I get Rs.50 per week. 
Hence, for cultivation purpose land along with oxen and plough may be 
provided as livelihood for my family. 
Komre Rajavva 
I depend on bamboo from forest. Rs.20000/- loan may be provided for 
vegetable business for my survival. 
K.Gattaiah 
I’m a labor. I go for daily wages and also get bamboo. One Auto may be 
provided for my livelihood 
B.Bheemaiah 
I get bamboo from forest. Loan may be provided to do vegetable business 
Bheemanna 
I get bamboo from forest. Loan may be provided for 30 sheep. 
Madikunta 
Padma 
I
get bamboo from forest. Loan may be provided for vegetable business 
Jaineni Posam 
I get bamboo from forest. Loan may be provided for vegetable business 
Page  36
36
Thatra Venkati 
I make 16 bamboo mats per day. One pair oxen and one cart may be 
provided for my livelihood. 
Mudugu 
Bhoomaiah 
I
am cultivating  5 Ac of  podu land. 2 Acres land and 20 sheep may be 
provided  
Kotturi Posham 
I  am cultivating  3 Ac  of Podu. I will give 2 Ac to Forest Department. 1 
Ac  land ,20sheeps and one auto may be provided for my livelihood. 
Mudugu 
Chinnaiah 
 
I
am cultivating  3 Ac land  . In 1 acre    I will cultivate green grams and 
surrender 2 ac. 1 Oil Engine, 10 sheep &2 buffaloes may be provided for 
my livelihood.  
Mudugu Jhani 
 I  am cultivating   4 acres of podu land. I will give 2 acres instead you 
have to provide me with  land, 1 well, a motor & 20 sheep. 
Madavi Bheem 
bai 
My husband sells poles. If we stop this immediately then what about our 
livelihood?. Loan may be provided for vegetable business. 
Kampalli 
Linganna 
I
have 4 Acres of Podu, I will surrender 2 acres to VSS if uyou provide me 
with 2 milch animals and Rs.40000/-. 
Division: Kagaznagar 
Participant Observations 
Morla 
Posubai 
I
don’t have other land for cultivation.  If you raise plantations I cannot wait 
for 5 years. In the three acres podu land Iam cultivating jowar. 
Kosaraju 
I possess 5 acres podu land in which 3 acres only is cultivable.  If Govt. 
extends support Iam ready to raise fruit trees like mango. 
Ananthula 
Suresh 
Villagers are questioning  whether land will be given to them after raising 
fruit trees.  Further they have questioned about thier means of livelihood for 
those 5 years. 
Nagram Davu 
I am cultivating podu land for the past 15 years. If  I leave that land how 
will I live? 
Navugare 
Chukaiah 
I
am cultivating podu areas for past 10 years.  I want land  instead this land. 
Tulsiram  
I will leave the land if Govt. gives  5-8 acres  per 10 acres of podu .land 
with bore facility  
Dongri 
Prabhakar 
I
did podu in consultation with the villagers. I will accept any 
developmental activity suggested by Govt. 
Gadi Poshetti 
I possess 16 acres podu land and I have 8 children.  If divided each child 
will get 2 acres land.  How can I leave this land. 
Halam 
Bimakka 
We are cultivating podu areas.  If well is dug in that area who will incur the 
cost.? 
Julme Onaji 
Sub DFO has explained detailedly. People have to think and decide.  
Manepally 
Munukku 
In the past, lands were very productive.  Even from fresh areas crop yield 
will be more.  Hence people are going for fresh areas.  If Govt. extend 
support in all means we will a bide by your suggestion. 
Amrutha 
We don’t have podu areas in our VSS. Govt. will not give patta for podu 
areas.  Plant trees in this areas. 
Page  37
37
Nayani 
Satiyamma 
We are cultivating for past 5 years.  Forests are being degraded by this 
practice. 
Bandi 
Sambaiah 
In our village there are 15-20 families taking up podu.  Some have other 
lands also.  Bore facility should be provided in these lands. 
Jumdi 
Gurudas 
Podu should not be encouraged. Forest lands needs to be protected. 
Sadashiv 
In our village people started cultivating podu areas seeing other villages.  
Action has not been initiated against them. 
Athram Bapu 
We will not leave the entire encroached lands. We also need fruit trees. 
Nikadi 
Jaggaiah 
Each person has encroached 2-6 acres land.To some extent we will plant 
forests species only.We will prevent further encroachments. 
Koratha 
Kullubaba   
Each person has 1-2 acres of patta land. For the rest encroached area we 
need pattas 
Sidam Sakaru 
We are not practicing podu in mysora. We will go according to the 
suggestion of FD.  If 50-60 hectors lands is given under extension .We will 
raise forest species in that area. 
K.Jalapathi 
Podu cultivation is going on from 1991-
92.  & FSO have been doing  
developmental works  in our land. There is  a pond in the RF down which 
cultivation are going on. We are not willing to leave this land.  In past also 
they have attempted to raise medicinal plants.  They should be brought 
under TDP.  We will not encroach further. 
Gangaram 
In Survey no. 91 PP people are willing  to plant forest species.  This area 
has been encroached for last 20 years.  There are illegal pattas in RF area. 
R.Bhimakka  
Planting work has to  be started in VSS lands. There are many forestry lands 
under illegal occupation.  By completing microplans forestry development 
works have to be started immediately.  Works will go on only  with the 
complete cooperation villagers. 
Atram 
Shamrao  
Patta lands are very few. Many lands are under illegal occupation. Trench 
has to be  dug around podu lands.  It will avoid expansion of illegally 
occupied podu lands.  Forests have decreased. Villagers have to be 
convinced to lose some land and I will try for this. 
Page  38
38
Division: Kamareddy 
 
Participant Observation 
P.Ranjit 
Nayak 
 
There is illegal cultivation in this VSS. The effected families should be 
given either land ,sheepauto or support for a provision store.  
B.Padma  
VSS members have been preventing people from encroachments and trying 
to evict people. If you provide financial support to the encroachers instead of 
punishing them, they will further encroach the forest lands. 
Ganga sing  
Govt. should take following measures to prevent cultivation. 
1. Power supply should be stopped. 
2. The records of encroached land should be given to MRO for necessary 
action. 
3. Sarpanch should help the VSS members in preventing cultivation. 
4. Govt. should not provide any assistance to the encroachers. 
5. For encroachers cultivating 1acre land rehabilitation should provided if he 
evicts the area,  as decided by the VSS committee. 
6. For people not willing to surrender encroached lands should be 
prosecuted by Govt. 
7. VSS members should be provided insurance and financial help in the 
form of honorarium.  
B.Balaiah   
In case of old encroachments either Govt. should convince them or take 
action on them.  VSS committee cannot help as it will create rift in the 
village.  If  necessary VSS may be cancelled.  However, we will prevent 
further encroachment.  
Division: Warangal (S) 
 
Participant. Observation 
Y.Narayana  
 VSS rejects the idea of providing alternate livelihood support to people 
having lands outside project area in addition to encroached lands  
D.Veeranna  
VSS  opined that for those persons who are dependant entirely on lands 
encroached, alternate support  should in the form of land ,agricultural 
implements etc; should be provided, 
B.Ramulu 
For affected persons having no other means of livelihood   alternative 
support for income generation should be provided.  
A.Dargaiah  
Persons likely to loose house, should be allowed to take their possessions 
from the old house and should be provided grant to construct house.   
B.ratnam  
Persons not willing to surrender encroached lands should be made to raise 
plantations in that area and VSS has agreed for profit sharing. 
A.Bhadraiah  
Head loaders should be supported with alternate income generation activities 
and also VSS has agreed to include them in VSS works.  
Page  39
39
G.Suvali   
In encroached lands , the encroachers should be made to raise plantations and 
VSS has agreed for this livelihood support. 
B.Laxmi   
For persons havind land outside project area in addition to encroached land 
no
support should be provided . If  any support is provided then it will 
encourage further encroachments. 
Division: Karimnagar (W) 
 
Participant. Observation 
Srinivas  
DRDA should sanction Community irrigation well for the affected 
families for persons having land outside project area in addition to land 
encroached and are likely to loose it. 
Satyanarayana 
No form of support should be provided, as it will further encourage 
encroachments. 
Komuraiah  
Support for cultivating outside land like providing irrigation facilities and 
financial support etc should be provided. 
N.Ramulu 
Provide any financial support 
Premchand 
Yadav 
After confirming the truth, provide livelihood support. 
G.Balashekar 
If we extend any help for these people we will be encouraging them for 
further encroachments. 
Banda Lakshmi 
Rajam 
 Do not provide any support if you provide  
fresh encroachments will start. 
M.Chandriah   
If we extend any help for these people we will be encouraging them for 
further encroachments. 
Rajireddy 
Provide support to generate additional income for families having 
alternate sources of income and are likely to be affected. 
Ganga Reddy  
Don’t encourage by supporting largely for families having alternate 
sources of income and are likely to be affected. 
Srinivasu 
Provide support from Velugu project for families having alternate sources 
of income and are likely to be affected by project. 
Pallepu 
Lakshman   
Provide me some daily labour then I’will not go to forest. 
Lakshman Yadav 
For families not willing to surrender encroached lands, evict them by 
providing land outside project area. (Or)If plantatrion is raised then after 
excluding extraction costs the profit share should be 50:50 for VSS and 
the affected family respectively.  
Chalimella 
Rajalingam 
For  people who are entirely dependent on land encroached and are likely 
to be affected, verify whether these people have bought lands with income 
from encroached lands  and if there are such people don’t extend any help 
to them. 
Srinivasu 
Income generatiuon activities should be taken up with help from 
S.C.Corporation, B.C.Corporation or ITDA according to the caste . 
Raji Reddy 
Alternate land for that land should be provided along with irrigation 
facilities. 
Page  40
40
Komuraiah 
Revenue Poramboke lands should be given . It is very good if buffaloes 
are also provided. 
Gangaiah 
Survey the forst areas properly and verify if they are really encroached or 
not. 
Devaiah 
Evict the encroachers by providing some alternate means of livelihood. 
Page  41
41
Division: Nalgonda 
 
Participant Observation 
Ch. Mattaiah 
Horticulture plants should be raised in encroached land, benefits should 
be shared 50:50 between Govt and encroacher. 
K.Laxamaiah 
1 Benefits from VSS area should be shared in 70:30 ratio in between 
VSS and Govt. 
2. Permission to raise horticulture crops on encroached land should be 
given. 
J.Mallesham 
For the head loaders alternative should be arranged by providing dried 
material, material coming out of cultural operations 
R. Saidulu 
1. For the head loaders alternative should be arranged by providing 
general stores and other alternative incoming generating sources. 
2. Permission to raise horticulture crops on encroached land should be 
given.. 
3.  Benefits from VSS area should be shared in 70:30 ratio in between 
VSS and Govt. 
P.Chinni 
Alternate employment arrangement should be created for the people who 
are dependent on forest. 
M.Bichya Nayak 
Agriculture land   cultivated by me for the last 23 years should be 
registered in my name . For the Head Loaders housing and other 
alternative employment generating activities should be provided by 
providing economic support 
Division: Kakinada 
Participant 
Observation 
Karam Lacha Rao 
Dora. 
The individual has two Ac. Of land, but due to improper irrigation facility  &  
no cattle to plough his land, he become a professional head loader.  He is 
ready to get rid of the profession, if a couple of cattle are provided to plough 
his kind. 
Karim Chinnnalu 
Dora,  
 
Though the individual has 5 Ac of land yunder D.Form. Patta, but due to 
improper irrigation facility and has no cattle to plough  his land, he became a 
professional Head Loader. He is ready to get rid of the profession, if a couple 
of cattle are provided to plough his land. 
Podium Posayya 
Dora 
The individual has no land.  He is completely dependent on forests. His 
livelihood is collecting firewood from the nearest forests and selling the same 
in the nearest villages.  He wants an alternative livelihood to his present 
profession of head loader. 
Panda Jaggamma 
 
The individual has no land. He is completely dependent on forests. His 
livelihood is collecting firewood from the nearest forests and selling the same 
in the nearest villages. He wants an alternative livelihood to withdraw his 
present profession of Head loader. 
Page  42
42
Julumuri Veera 
Babu 
Stated that there are 50 head loaders.  How will they survive if they are 
stopped? Govt. has to show permanent means of livelihood like giving 
financial support to 25 persons, bullock carts to 10 persons and sheep to 15 
families.    
Bachchala 
Venkat Rao 
There are 25 head loaders and for livelihood support they should be given 
Sheep (20 members)& Cattle (5 members). 
Kondra Suri Babu  
25 head loading families are there. Affected youth who are educated should be 
given autos and others should be given 15 sheep, cattle and provision store. 
Mulla Lachchi 
Reddy 
Possess  10 acres podu land from 10 years which has been included in the 
Devarapalli VSS area and bamboo plantation is raised by department in 2001 
Podiyam Ganga 
Raju   
Posess podu land for livelihood  which has been included in the Sunnampadu 
VSS area and bamboo plantation is raised by department in 2001 
Sundru 
Bhumayya 
Cultivating  podu land for livelihood  which has been included in the Ramanna 
valasa VSS area and bamboo plantation is raised by department in 2001 
Division : Khammam 
Participant
.
Observation 
Ajura Bansilal 
First Government has to issue Patta lands. Then we leave the Forestland. 
Tejavat 
Kamala, 
.
We are not interested to plant trees in podu lands. VSS will not have any 
right on that land. 
Gangavat 
Bicca, 
 
So many people are depending on podu cultivation.  We are ready to plant 
trees.  We should plant fruit trees. 
Mukti 
Sreenivasa Rao. 
 
If we cultivate in podu lands we get  more benefit.  If we cultivate in Patta 
lands, we get less benefit. So we request the government to allot us a good 
agriculture  land. 
Saidulu 
 
We agree  for the clonal plantations  in VSS area.  For the poor head-
loaders,  government  should help  by providing  buffaloes  or finance. 
Chunchu Babu 
Every year it is very difficult to live without crop. Per acre  we get Rs. 
8000/-. Yearly we get 2 crops. If Government takes the land, how can our 
children  live?  So we are not agreeing to handover the crop lands.  In case  
if the Government   gives the crop lands with all facilities,  then we are 
ready to leave the Podu lands. 
Padiga Ramaiah 
 
If government takes away the occupied land, we do not have anything for 
our livelihood. Crop is  not sufficientand my family is big . We have 4 
acres of  Podu land. In case if the government plant trees, it will take lot of 
time to give its produce.  For this reason, we are not agreeing. 
Division: Kothagudem 
Participant Observation 
Daravath 
Bheema 
Each household should be given 5 acres as pattas.25 acre podu land 
occupied by my 4 sons should  be made pattas. 
Badavath 
There is no irrigation facility in our lands. Hence I’m not willing to leave 
Page  43
43
Ramdan 
the encroached land.  
Made Papaiah 
I posses 5 acres land .You can raise  mango, cashew etc, but ownership of 
land should remain with me. 
Jara Rambabu 
I can give 3 acres for raising fruit species in the 7 acres land I possess. 
Irpa Okkaiah 
I will raise fruit trees like mango in the 3 acres I possess ,if the seedlings 
are given. 
Veesam 
Neelaiah 
We are dependant on this land for the past 25 years hence we are not 
willing to hand over. 
Polam 
Jaggaram 
The lands I possess has good facility of irrigation and more productive than 
other lands hence Iam not willing to leave it 
Eesam Swami 
My father had cultivated 10 acres of land on distribution we got 2 acres 
only. It will be good if it is improved. 
Pusem Malliah 
I possess 3 acres of land which I cannot give. 
Kunja Ramaiah 
I possess 2 acres of land which, I cannot give even if alternate land is 
given. 
Division: Paloncha  
Participan
t
Observation 
Tati Nangaiah 
We have no objection to hand over encroached land if alternate livelihood 
is provided in the form of clonal and fruit tree plantations.We will not 
encroach fresh areas. 
Payam 
Punnamma 
We don’t own any land.Podu lands  in our possession for the past 10 years 
should be left for us.We do not agree for surrender of land because it is the 
source of our livelihood.  
Payam 
Kamaraju 
We are cultivating the podu lands for past 25 years which we will not 
surrender. They are our livelihood as we do not possess land elsewhere.We 
have approached the revenue people repeatedly to issue pattas for that 
land.We request the forest and revenue deptartmantsto allot those lands to 
us .We will not encroach any fresh areas 
Yasam 
Rajamma 
We donot possess any land. For the past 25 years we are dependant on 
these podu lands which we will not surrender.We do not want to go to jail 
in this respect. Do justice to us. 
Banothu 
Chawla 
Since 1986 floods we are struggling for livelihood.We are cultivating podu 
lands and raising crops.We donot possess land .ITDA, P.O has promised to 
issue pattas .So we are not going to surrender our lands. 
Tati Rajamma 
I am cultivating 3 acres  podu land .Our lands should be kept to us only. 
Division: Narsipatnam. 
Participant Observation 
Nu
rmani 
When  VSS is formed, 8 families have lost 18 acres land as it is included 
Page  44
44
Krishnam Naidu 
in the VSS. They are dependent on this land entirely. 
Gollori Nani 
Babu 
4
families have surrendered 12 acres of land to VSS. 
Sahina China 
Ramachary 
In the 125 ha allotted to VSS, 4 families have lost 20 acres of land. 
Kotari Appa Rao 
In the area allotted to VSS, kotari Somaiah has surrendered 8 acres of 
land, on which he is dependent. 
Sangi Konda 
babu 
9
families have surrendered 23 acres of land during formation of VSS. 
Vanthala Rama 
Rao 
6
families have surrendered 15 acres of podu land to VSS. 
Not Clear 
 In VSS areas there are no affected families. 
Gandi Chinna 
Krishna chary 
4
families have surrendered 12 acres to the VSS. 
Sagina Chinna 
baba chary 
4
families have surrendered 8 acres land to VSS. 
Kilodi bonju babu 
3 families have lost 12 acres of land, during formation of VSS. 
Korra Nukaraju,  
10 VSS members are cultivating 1 acre each. 
Vanathala besu V 
All members are cultivators. 
Sarabahaiyya  
6 families are affected. 
Mata kamaraju  
 There are no affected families 
Kamadam 
Somalingam 
7
families have cultivated 10 acres 
Vanthala Rama 
Rao  
There are people who have houses in RF and land in the VSS. 
Pangi Vinod 
There are 10 cultivators dependent on VSS land  
Tambelu 
Ravinder 
5
people have surrendered 25 acres of land to VSS. They are dependent 
entirely on that land. 
Korra Madhava 
Rao 
7
VSS members are cultivating 10 acres of land. 
Poturi Linga 
murthy 
2
families have 3 acres of land in VSS, they have other land for survival. 
Tella Naiya 
2 people are cultivating 4 acres in VSS, they also have land outside. 
Pottur Appa Rao 
No encroachments 
Golluri Papa rao 
9 members have encroached 45 acres of land in VSS 
G.Ananda Rao  
Only 1 member is having land in VSS. 
Korra Nagaraju 
No encroachments in VSS 
Korra 
Nageshwara 
All members are cultivating in VSS area, they are dependent on it. 
Taggi Rama rao 
People in 5 and 6 category 
Korra subba Rao 
7 members have surrendered 30 acres of land to VSS, they are now 
working with VSS members. 
Jampa nuka raju  
10 members have raised cashew plantation in VSS area. If any group 
based IGA, is taken up, they will leave the plantation. 
Kella Achiyalu  
2
Families have raised cashew plantation in VSS area.If any group based 
Page  45
45
IGA, is taken up, they will leave the plantation. 
Jampa Lowaraju 
5 families cultivating podu in VSS area. If any group based IGA, is taken 
up, they will leave the area. 
T.Achyutu  
No podu areas 
K.Yeshoda   
For affected persons, any group based activity should be taken for 
rehabilitation. 
Kalyani,   
For affected persons, any group based activity should be taken for 
rehabilitation. 
Mamidi 
Jagannaram 
VSS members have voluntarily taken forest area for development. 
Madumala papa 
rao 
On request, forest department has shown alternate livelihood in the form 
of VSS. 
K.Linga murthy 
Jarila chitti babu 
We have voluntarily surrendered the land , because we felt that VSS will 
benefit us. 
Korra nandu 
We have voluntarily surrendered the land , because we felt that VSS will 
benefit us. 
Page  46
46
Division: Srikakulam 
Participant Observation 
Nimakka Laxman 
Rao 
There are 20 families in our village, which live on head loading for 
livelihood.  We need goats and support for business. 
Savara Duggaiah 
We depend entirely on podu for livelihood. We may be provided goats 
and bullocks. 
S. Totaiah 
23 families are possessing podu lands. Provide loans for goats or 
business as alternate support 
K.suryanarayana,  
In our village 24 families are dependent on head loading. We want goats 
for livelihood. 
 
Badana Ramaiah 
Around 10 acres have been encroached by members, since there is no 
alternate livelihood. Kindly provide support to raise plantations. 
Parasilli 
ganapathi 
In contrast to the above proposal kindly provide us loan. 
Jemmana 
Narayana 
We are head loaders. Provide us good grafts for raising plantations. 
P.Darma rao 
From the past we are dependent on Podu, we do not have any other 
alternative. We should be given rights on that land. 
K. Kurma rao 
We will not leave the podu lands in our possession. 
N.Shanta rao 
There are head loaders and podu cultivators in our VSS. If govt provides 
any livelihood support they are ready to leave the land. 
S.Sambru 
We are dependent on podu from the past as, there is no other livelihood. 
Whatever schemes you propose , we are not going to leave the land. 
J.Mokha lingam 
20 families have lost livelihood due to formation of Saparaiguda VSS. 
They may be provided support under CFM. 
K.Kurma Rao 
If you provide rights to us everything is provided. 
P.Durga rao 
There are head loaders and podu cultivators in our VSS. If govt provides 
any livelihood support they are ready to leave the land. 
R.Rama Rao 
K.Rama Rao 
In our VSS, people have encroached RF for cultivation. Provide any 
alternate livelihood for them. 
 
M. Machhaiah 
We are dependent on head loading from the past. We do not have any 
podu lands. 
B.Bangaraiah 
We have old podu, and we depend on head loading. 
G.Rama Rao 
We don’t have podu but, there is a cashew plantation raised by BC in 
VSS area.  
Laleti Laxman 
Rao 
I
possess 25  cents podu land. I need a financial support for livelihood. 
Kolaka 
ramulamma 
I
am a head loaderg. Provide financial support for milch cattle. 
Palaka 
annapurnamma 
I
am a head loader. Provide financial support for dairy farm. 
Kundani Krishna 
Rao 
I
possess podu  land . I need goats, cows or financial help. 
Page  47
47
Savaral Akkaiah 
I am a head loader.Provide financial support for sheep. 
Arika Shantamma 
I possess podu land. Provide  financial help for dairy farm. 
Gunjwada laxman 
rao 
From the past, we are dependent on forest land, we will not leave it. 
Agadhala 
Ekasamma 
We are living inside RF, we cannot leave the resources there. 
Kottur Somaiah 
I am a head loader.  Kindly provide sheep or cowsfor livelihood. 
 
Pedinti Pollaiah 
I depend on podu and headloading for livelihood  and I need milch cattle, 
leaf plate making machines and agarbatthi industry. 
Janni Dharma rao 
I am a head loader. For livelihood dairy farm, sheep, poultry farm motors 
for agri wells should be given. 
P.Achutar Rao 
In encroached areas, fruit species may be raised. In outside areas, provide 
facilities for agriculture. 
B.Appa Rao 
We are doing podu because we don’t have any other land. Give us land. 
A.Ganga Rao 
Since we don’t have any other livelihood, we are dependent on podu, 
show some alternatives in the form of land or financial help. 
Division: Vizianagaram 
Participant Observation 
G.Lachaiah 
8 families were practicing podu in our village prior to formation of VSS. 
In this land we have raised plantations from which we have some 
livelihood .In addition to this the 8 families may be given loans for sheep, 
leaf plate making ,and houses may be constructed for them under CFM. 
Pothanapalli 
Chandar Rao 
Due to drought conditions there is severe water problem in our village. 
Under CFM drinking water or bore facility may be provided to us. For 
those not having even a cent of land labor should be provided.Houses may 
be constructed for 9 families. 
Thuneti  
Venkat Rao 
Prior to formation
 
of
VSS we were practicing podu. After VSS is formed 
we are earning livelihood by selling broomsticks. We want rehabilitation 
in the form of land for land   
Gemmala Ramu   
At the time of formation of VSS there were 25 families practicing 
podu.Presently they are selling broom sticks for living .As rehabilitation 
they want land equal to surrendered land and facilities like agri. 
implements and financial help for cultivating the land.      
Muvvala 
Manikyamma 
 
At the time of formation of VSS there were 80 families practicing 
podu.Presently, 35 families are selling broom sticks for living .As 
rehabilitation they want land equal to surrendered land and facilities like 
agri .implements and financial help for cultivating the land.     
 
Doneru 
Chinnamma 
Prior to formation of VSS 25 families were dependent on encroached 
lands which they have left after formation of VSS. Alternate livelihood 
may be provided for them.  
Sebi Adayya 
Prior to formation of VSS 18 families were dependent on encroached 
Page  48
48
lands which they have left after formation of VSS. Alternate livelihood 
may be provided for them. 
Meesala Seerelu 
Prior to formation of VSS 30 families were dependent on encroached 
lands which they have left after formation of VSS. Alternate livelihood 
may be provided for them 
Page  49
49
Velega Chinnarao 
Prior to formation of VSS 19 families were dependent on encroached 
lands which they have left after formation of VSS. Alternate livelihood 
may be provided for them 
Members do not have livelihood as the lands they were cultivated 
included in VSS. For the NTFP available there are no marketing facilities 
Solution: House construction, supply of Milch cattle, Cycles Tent house, 
and mike sets for livelihood and marketing facility for NTFP.  
VSS is in need of roads community halls, bores, culverts, agricultural 
implements check dams and percolation tanks. 
S
Mohan 
30 families were practicing podu .Due to formation of VSS the land is 
included in VSS.These people are presently struggling for livelihood by 
collecting dry twigs, small NTFP, and are getting insufficient  wages. 
Hence they may be provided land for cultivation, facilities for modern 
cultivation techniques and bank loans. 
Mellika RajaRao 
35 families were practicing podu .Due to formation of VSS the land is 
included in VSS.These people are presently struggling for livelihood by 
selling fuel wood  and are working for meagre wages.  
 Hence they may be provided land for cultivation, facilities for modern 
cultivation techniques and bank loans.   
G.Bosu   
There are no affected families in our village due to formation of VSS. But 
for livelihood support. 
Sambangi 
Paramesu 
There are 5 families cultivating inside RF and after formation of VSS in 
1997 have lost the land to VSS. Further there are 12 families entirely 
dependent on forests. We have raised 15000 plants in 4 acres area but
have 
left that land after formation of VSS. 
K.Veeraiah 
In this VSS there are 15 families who have no land including one crippled 
person. Also there are 10 families without house and 20 headloaders. 
Y.Kesava Rao   
 If  NGO  comes to our village and convi
nces the people, they are willing to 
stop podu. But they doubt whether Government will extend help . 
T.Vasudeva Rao 
If everything  is implemented as discussed and decided in GO 13 
consultations , we will stop doing podu 
Division: Paderu 
Participant
.
Observation 
G.Appala 
Swamy 
11 families were living on podu cultivation prior to formation  of VSS. . 
Give us banjaru lands and loans for our livelihood. 
B.Swamy 
Even though we have lands, 13 families were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS. After VSS formation,we stopped podu cultivation. Give 
us banjaru lands  for our livelihood. 
B.Gani 
Before VSS formation, our 9 families are depending fuel wood from forest 
hills.  Provide us livelihood. 
G.Buddu 
Our 14 families are depending on 70 acres of forestlands for podu. If 
Rs.26000 for each family is provided for our business&livelihood, we will 
Page  50
50
develop forests 
V.Govindu 
Before formation of VSS we were dependent on fuel wood from forest. We 
stopped this after formation of VSS. Save us with livelihood support for 
our 3 families. 
V.Chetu 
Our 6 families are possessing30 acres of podu lands. If Rs.18000 for each 
family is provided for business or  livelihood, we will develop forests. 
K.Kannaiah 
Even though we have lands, 5 families were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS. Give us loans for our livelihood, as pattas lands are not 
sufficient. 
P.Somara 
Prior to formation of VSS we were dependant on headloading .Presently 
we do not have any livelihood .Provide us livelihood, to feed our families. 
K.Sonia 
Prior to formation of VSS our 10 families were depending on podu. 
Provide us loans for our livelihood. 
S. Padma 
Even though we have lands, 9 families were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS. Give us loans for our livelihood, as pattas lands are not 
sufficient.  
S. Bheemanna 
Prior to formation of VSS our 10 families were depending on headloading. 
Provide us loans for our livelihood. 
 
K.Ramanna 
Our 5 families are depending on 15 acres of forestlands for podu. If 
Rs.15000 for each family is provided for our business/livelihood, we will 
develop forests 
K.Baburao 
Having pattas, depending on podu to meet our livelihood. After formation 
of VSS, stopped.  Give banjaru lands  to our 2families  for our livelihood  
V.Moddu 
Prior to formation of VSS our 3 families were depending on headloading. 
Provide us loans for our livelihood  
S.Naarsingarao 
Our 9 families are depending on 45 acres of podu lands  . If Rs.20000 for 
each family is provided for our business/ livelihood, we will develop 
forests 
S.Mangla 
Even though we have lands8 families were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS. Give us loans for our livelihood, as pattas lands are not 
sufficient  
S.Pedda Bhim 
Naidu 
Even though we have lands, 10families were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS. Give us loans for our livelihood, as pattas lands are not 
sufficient 
P.Sanyasi, 
S/o.Lachu 
 
5
families were doing podu cultivation before formation of VSS. Give us 
loans for our livelihood, as pattas lands are not sufficient 
P.Parvathi, 
W/o. Gundanna 
Prior to formation of VSS our 3 families were depending on headloading. 
Provide us loans for our livelihood 
V.Veeranna, 
S/o. Sanchedi 
Prior to formation of VSS we possessed podu land .Provide me loan for 
vegetable business for our livelihood.  
Sobha 
Janakamma, 
W/o. Hari 
Prior to formation of VSS we possessed podu land families Provide me 
loan for bangle business for our livelihood. 
P.Pratap 
Our 11 families are depending on 20 acres of forestlands for podu. If 
Rs.25000 for each fami
ly or two acres land  for each family is provided for 
Page  51
51
our business/ livelihood, we will develop forests 
K.Mukundu 
Our 6 families are depending on 12 acres of hill forest lands for podu. 
Stopped after formation of VSS.  If loan is  provided for our 6 famil
ies for  
livelihood, we will develop forests. 
K.Hari 
We 4 families, having patta lands, were doing podu on forest hills. Stopped 
on formation of VSS. 
Page  52
52
K.Padma 
Prior to formation of VSS our 5 families were depending on headloading. 
Stopped after VSS formation.  Provide loan for our livelihood. 
K.Anandarao 
Prior to formation of VSS our 3 families were dependant on podu in forests 
Lost livelihood. Loans for livelihood may be provided. We will develop 
forests.  
T.Lachanna 
Even though we have lands, 3 families were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS. We are doing agriculture in patta lands.  Banjaru lands 
may be sanctioned. 
B.Padma 
Prior to formation of VSS our 4 families were dependant on podu in forests 
Lost livelihood. Loans for livelihood may be provided. We will develop 
forests.  
S.Ramanna 
Our 18 families are depending on 90 acres of forest lands for podu. If 
Rs.40000 for each family is provided for our business/livelihood, we will 
develop forests 
G.Ramchender 
Before formation of VSS we were meeting livelihood from fuel wood. 
Provide loans to our 11 families to feed us. 
K.Berse,  
Our 6 families are depending on 30 acres of forest lands for podu. If loan is 
provided for our families to do business we will meet our livelihood.  
K.Sambu 
Before formation of VSS we were meeting livelihood from forest fuel 
wood. Provide loans to our 3 families to feed us. 
K.Subba Rao 
We do not have lands .Dependant on podu. If 22 acres podu type banjar 
land  is allotted to the 8 families, we will make out living.. 
P.Sonnu 
  We do not have lands. Dependant on podu. If loan of Rs.40000 per family 
is allotted to the 8 families, we will make out livelihood 
S.Jattu 
6 families dependent on 8 acres of forest lands for podu.  If 3 acres each 
land is allotted can earn our living 
S.Sitaram 
Even though we have lands, 2 families were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS. Providing loans for business to feed familiesas patta 
lands are insufficient. 
K.Prahlad 
Landless. Podu for livelihood by 6 families 
G.Balanna 
With own lands, doing podu for livelihood 
–
4
families. All are doing podu 
in 35 acres of forest land. Want financial help for K.Arjun for tailoring 
shop- Rs.25,000. Want financial help to raising more income generating 
species and  fruit trees in podu lands to develop financially.  
V.Koche 
Before VSS, our 3 families doing podu.  Survival is difficult now. If 
financial help is given, we will do business to feed our families. 
V.Moddu 
Even though I have lands, Iam doing doing podu. If financial help is given, 
I
will   feed my family. 
P.Ambati 
Before formation of VSS, our 6 landless  families were doing podu at foots 
of hill forests Survival is difficult now. If financial help is given, we will 
do business to feed our families. 
V.Kosaraju 
Before formation of VSS, our   families were taking fuel from forest for 
livelihood.  Stopped now. If financial help is given, we will do business to 
feed our families  
Page  53
53
K.Jagabandhu 
Before VSS,we were doing podu in forests.Survival is difficult now. If 
financial help is given, we will do business to feed our families. 
G.Appanna 
Even though we have lands, we were doing podu cultivation before 
formation of VSS.  
G.Gangadhar 
Before formation of VSS, families were doing podu in forests..    . Survival 
is difficult now. If financial help is given, we will   feed our families. 
B.Neelakantam 
15 members doing podu in 30 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial helps for business will help for livelihood. 
M.Gopal 
7 members doing podu in 21 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial help for business will help for livelihood. 
M.Bheemanna 
5 families doing podu in 10 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial help for business will help for livelihood. 
K.Pollu 
   Doing podu for dependence though we 3 families have little land. 
Required tailoring machines and financial help for business.  
K.Rama Rao 
23 members doing podu in 40 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial help for business will help for livelihood  
J.Murali 
10 members doing podu in 30 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial help for business will help for livelihood  
P.Pollu 
23members doing podu in 45 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
permission to raise coffee in VSS with Rs.25,000/- financial help   for 
livelihood  . 
P.Gurumurthy 
31 families are doing podu, even after having patta lands. Extend support 
by providing 2 acres land with permission to raise coffee and Rs. 20,000 Or 
Providing small scale industry with jobs to us.  
K.Modhu 
Doing podu in 12 acres forest lands to feed 7 families.Extend support by 
providing 2 acres land and with permission to raise coffee and 20,000 
financial help.  Providing small scale industry with jobs to us will also 
help. 
K.Sanyasi 
9 members doing podu in 33 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial help for business will help for livelihood. 
K.Dobulu 
7members doing podu in 15 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial help for business will help for livelihood. 
K.Appalaswami 
21 members doing podu in 30 acres forest lands. 2 acres banjaru each or 
Rs.25,000/- financial help for business will help for livelihood. 
G.Neelamma 
We are doing podu in 14 acres forest lands to feed 7 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres each  with permission to raise coffee and 25,000 financial 
help for our livelihood.    
S.Jinnu 
We are doing podu in 12 acres forest lands to feed 6 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres each  with permission to raise coffee and 25,000 financial 
help for our livelihood  
T.Moddu 
We are doing podu in 4 acres forest lands to feed 4 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres each  with permission to raise coffee and 25,000 financial 
help for our livelihood  
G. Kondala Rao 
We are doing podu in 13 acres forest lands to feed 3 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres each  with permission to raise coffee and 25,000 financial 
help for our livelihood  
Page  54
54
V.Jagannadham 
We are doing podu in 20acres forest lands to feed 4 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres banjar each  or 25,000 financial help for our livelihood . 
K.Chondor 
We are doing podu in25 acres forest lands to feed 11 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres each or 25,000 financial help for our livelihood  
K.Purushotham 
We are doing podu in 10acres forest lands to feed 5 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres  banjaru or 25,000 financial help will help us do business 
for  livelihood.    
V.Soma 
 We are doing podu in 16acres forest lands to feed 8 families. Help us by 
providing 2 acres  banjaru or 25,000 financial help will help us do business 
for  livelihood.    
K.Srinath 
We donot have any land. Doing podu in 8 acres for 4 families.We request 
you for loans for business, cattle and goats and banjar lands. 
P.Protimma 
We 5 families are depending on podu for  livelihood. We have small piece 
of land. We request you for financial help for business, and machines for 
addakula stitching, cloth stitching etc;  
P.Chittanna 
We 6 families are feeding our  families by selling  fuel wood from forests 
from forest.We request for loans for business cattle and for kirana shopand 
banjar lands  for livelihood. 
K.Satrughnu  
1. no lands. Depended on podu 
–
5
acres – lost livelihood – loan for 
business, sanction of banjar lands and loan for growing vegetables;  
2. some lands doing podu for livelihood. Loan for business,   sanction of 
banjar lands 
3. sanction of banjaru lands and loan for business.  
G.Nageswara 
. 1. no lands. Depended on podu –  – lost livelihood – loan for business  
 
S.Mohana Rao  
Lost livelihood due to stopping of podu in forest lands – 38 families in 40 
acres. Loans for business and loans for growing allam and pasupu. 
K.Sitaram 
Own lands not sufficient, depending on podu in forests. 20 families.  
Sanction of loan for addakula stitching machines. 
 
M.Muddu 
Depending on fuel and forest produce. 5 families. Sanction of banjaru lands 
for livelihood and loans for cattle( for milk business) 
V.Chitan, 
S/o.Lachanna 
1. Podu dependent families: 15 families for  15 acres of forest lands. 
 
2. Podu dependent families having own lands:    4 families 
P.Mukta, 
w/o.Gundanna 
3.dependents on fuel and usufruct : 5 families  
Requests: those totally dependent on podu: loans for business, lands for 
landless.   
G.Dombu, 
B.Kamsula 
Landless doing podu – 20 members in 35 acres: loan for business; sanction 
of banjar lands, loan for growing vegetables and for women loan for 
addakula stitching machines. 
G.Arjun 
Some land but doing podu for livelihood – lost – sanction of banjaru lands 
G.Tellamma 
Depended on fuel from forest lands and forest produce; loan for business, 
sanction of banjaru lands and loan for growing vegetables. 
G.Vasudev  
No lands doing podu in forest lands 3 families in 4 acres. Loans for 
business, loans for kirana and a
ddakula stitching machine.Some lands but 
Page  55
55
doing podu in forests for livelihood. Sanction of banjaru lands. Depending 
on fuel and forest produce. Loans for business, loans for goats (and for 
women) addakula stitching machines 
G.Venkata and 
K.Appalamma 
No la
nds 10 families    Loans for business, sanction of banjaru lands ;  
loans for growing allam and pasupu.Some lands -  but doing podu in 
forests for livelihood. Loans for business and loans for addakula machines. 
Depending on fuel and forest produce. Loans for business, sanction of 
banjaru lands.  
K.Chander and 
K.Sonnu 
26 members landless doing podu in 25 acres 
–
for livelihood loans for 
business, sanction of banjar lands and for women stitching machines. 
G.Guruvaiah 
Some land doing podu 3 families lost livelihood – loans for business, 
sanction of banjaru lands and for women for addakula stitching machines. 
R.Balaji 
Depending on fuel and forest produce 2 families.  Loans for business and 
sanction of banjaru lands. 
P.Bheemanna 
and D.Tulasi 
9
families are landless depending on podu in forests.  Loans for business, 
sanction of banjaru lands and loans for growing vegetables and for women 
to acquire addakula stitching machines. 
P. 
Appalaswamy 
Some land but depending on podu in forests 5 families lost livelihood – 
loans for business, stitching machines for woken and sanction of banjaru 
lands. 
P.Rammurthy 
Depending on fuel and forest produce – 7families – loans for business, 
sanction of banjaru lands and loans for growing vegetables. 
S.Rambabu and 
Smt.A.Appalla
mma 
Landless – doing podu 16 families lost livelihood – loans for business, 
sanction of banjaru lands and loans for growing vegetables and for woken 
addakula stitching machines. 
V.Madhu 
Some lands – depending on podu 19 families lost livelihood – loans for 
business sanction of banjaru lands and for women stitching machines. 
T.Valubabu 
Depending on fuel and forest produce 11 families – loans for business 
sanction of banjaru lands and loans for growing vegetables. 
Sonia Subba 
Rao 
We are cultivating few acres of podu land as we do not have any other 
means for survival. Provide us financial help for alternate livelihood. 
Killo 
Bheemanna 
 I am doing podu inside RF, though I am having land as my land is 
insufficient. 
Pedakapu 
Varalamma 
 
We are cultivating few acres of podu lands, but presently working as 
agricultural labour.  Provide financial help for alternate livelihood. 
Opinions expressed in the State level meeting: 
Sl.No.
Name of the 
Participant 
 
Observation Time 
1
Sarvasri 
Ravi Pragada, 
NGO, Samata 
The poor people work for the land.  Since the start 
of forest administration, the conflict with  the 
Department has started.   As per the paper 
3.30 
PM 
Page  56
56
published, dated 10.12.2002, about  3413  Sq.Km 
of forest area is under occupation which 
constitutes 
<
5%  of the entire  land/ earth.  As per 
land utilization records,  50 to 70%  of the land 
with Forest Department is in agency areas, 17%  
Agriculture,  Irrigated land 6%,  .  The Tribal 
population has increased by 30% and  as per the 
feed-back  the tribals  are not ready  to part with 
the Podu land.                              
2
Sidam Shambu 
of Utnoor 
Range./ 
Adilabad dist. 
In Adilabad division, 60% of the forest land is 
under encroached.  The R & R Policy  Revision 
was discussed at Range and Division levels. The 
Forest land is encroached by the landless whose 
entire livelihood  is dependent on this  and also 
encroached by the people having lands outside the 
forests.  Under R & R Policy,  rehabilitation 
should be  made  to the landless only.  Similarly  
a
decision has to be taken  about the persons, who 
are landless  and  have not occupied  any forest 
land.  For the encroached lands, the Government 
has provided Electricity, Borewell etc  and  if 
shifted  outside the forests, will the government  
provide all these facilities.  The people should be 
made aware  that  by raising plantations they get 
more revenue. 
3.32 
PM 
3
Chairperson/ 
Gokavaram 
VSS/Kakinada 
Division. 
In  Yelleshwaram  Constituency  many landless 
people  were carrying out Podu  and  also  earning 
their livelihood by selling dead and dry trees as  
fuel wood.   I have personally discussed with the 
concerned forest officials  for providing alternate  
income generation to these people.  About 2500 
3.38 
PM 
Page  57
57
acres  of Cashew Plantations, was raised by them  
in vacant protected forest lands.  But till  now  no 
Pattas   are given to them.  The rehabilitation 
policy should be for landless and also to the 
people having very meager land  as  the 
productivity is very low, due to failure of rains/ 
drought.   
4
CCF(CFM) 
The CCF (CFM) has expressed  to clearly  say 
what type of rehabilitation is needed for those  
who are voluntarily giving up the Podu areas to 
the VSS. The idea is not  to forcibly stop Podu in 
forest areas or evict  them.   
3.45 
PM 
Page  58
58
5
S.Subrahmanyam. 
Chairperson, 
Punganur./ 
Chittoor 
In VSS areas , if  grazing by cattle and sheep  is 
stopped  the members have to be  compensated  
by providing alternate resources.   
3.47 
PM 
6
Omkar Singh, 
IFS, CCF. 
The  Joint survey of encroached lands is under 
progress and after completion of this exercise  
the total forest area under encroachment  will be 
known  and as per records 40% of the 
encroached area  is under  VSS.  Based upon 
the date,  we have to find out  in how many 
VSS there is encroachment  and  also the 
number of people  who  have encroached.    The 
details of pre  and post 1980 encroachments  
should be clearly made available, so that   they 
can be dealt separately by adopting different 
packages.  The amount of financial assistance,  
credit availability etc. should be  informed  to 
the VSS members initially.  The different issues  
have to be discussed point 
–wise  as was  done  
in case of incremental  growth. 
3.50 
PM 
7
Prl. CCF. 
The Prl. CCF.  has clarified the participants 
that,  the issue under discussion is  that,  if a 
person  voluntarily  agrees  to include  Podu 
area in VSS  what  kind of rehabilitation  he can 
be  given  and  alternate sources of income  that  
may be provided. 
3.54 
8
Murlikrishnam 
Naidu. Atmakur/ 
Nellore district 
The Mango  and other fruit bearing species are 
planted  in the forest land  and  whether  they 
are  eligible for the returns. 
3.56 
PM 
9
Dhanuja, NGO  
As per our survey in about 879 acres of 
3.53 
Page  59
59
Ananthapur. 
encroached land under Bukkapatnam VSS,  
plantations were raised in JFM under VSS as 
per voluntarily agreement of the   encroachers.  
But  they were not called for  the  R & R policy 
meeting  held at Range  and now  the persons  
who are  SC and ST and who have given these 
lands to VSS are asking  about  their 
rehabilitation. 
PM 
10 Krishna 
Rao, 
Chairperson. 
 The people are against  giving  the Podu land to 
the VSS.  In some places, the people  from other 
States have also encroached the forest land  and  
what  kind of policy is planned for them.   
3.57 
PM 
11 
Sowmitri, NGO 
In Vizag   about 37,000  ha. of encroached  area is 
included  under  VSS and was published as a 
success story.  The World Bank  considering it as 
a
loss of livelihood  has decided  for providing 
compensation package and hence  R & R policy is 
included in CFM.  As per the  survey of the 
discussions held at  Range level  and Division 
level about 833 families have agreed to 
voluntarily give Podu lands to VSS whereas 803 
families  have  declined  to part with  Podu lands 
as they will be loosing their livelihood.   The 
World Bank has also decided  to rehabilitate the  
persons   who have  agreed to part the Podu areas  
in the VSS and plantations were raised under 
JFM.  The rehabilitation  is to be taken up  as a 
group  based activity  and not  by giving goats 
/sheep / cattle etc.  by deciding the extent of 
effective    rehabilitation.  Productive asset  
building  and income generation  should be 
4.02 
Page  60
60
aimed.  For the persons  effected under JFM, the 
monitoring mechanism by way of giving technical 
advise  for the next two years involving all the 
line departments  to be developed  to see that  the  
compensation is effectively utilized. In CFM   do 
not  evict  people   and  repeat  what was done 
under JFM.   The  pre and post  1980 
encroachments are to be  clearly defined  and  R 
&
R
policy to be implemented.  The Government 
off India, during October, 2002 has given certain 
guidelines  for rehabilitation  and  has also given  
instructions  to take up the survey of 
encroachments. 
12 Amrutha 
Rao, 
Ambedkarnagar 
VSS, Jannaram 
At the  consultation meetings held   at Range/ 
Division level  , the  Kolamguda   VSS  members  
have expressed that  they will leave  all the 
encroached lands and houses to the VSS, 
provided,  they are  rehabilitated on  an area of 20 
to 30  acres of land  along with development 
activities.  Some of them have expressed that   
they will give half of the encroached area to the 
VSS  if  the land  under their possession is 
developed. 
4.08 
13 Sri.Madhusudan 
Rao, IFS. CF 
(Procurement) 
In  Tiryani Range, the ITDA officials  have taken 
up rehabilitation of Kolams  outside the forest 
area by providing them housing,  raising 
horticulture etc.   The Kolams  hardly  stayed  for 
one year and during the next monsoon  season  
they have left this place and settled   in still far 
interior forest area.   Therefore the tribal affinity  
towards the forests has to be understood.  It is not 
4.10 
Page  61
61
clear  as to how  many tribal families will come 
forward to give  the Podu lands to the VSS  
voluntarily.   The ITDA   has  taken up  a process  
of consolidation of areas  for improving 
productivity   and  a similar  process  has to be 
taken up.   The problems and customs  are 
different  in  different areas  and  a region 
–wise 
packages have to be developed. 
14 Prl. 
Secretary. 
EFS&T. 
In JFM   some  encroached  area is brought under 
VSS   and  we have to devise a policy  on 
rehabilitation.  
4.16 
PM 
15 
Satya Srinivas. 
The  R & R Policy is different from R & R Action 
plan. One package for the entire  state  is not 
advisable.  The funds  under R & R Policy are to 
be allotted to the VSS  and  thereafter  the works 
are to be taken up in VSS.   
4.19 
PM 
16 Narsimhalu, 
ACF  
After  conducting R &R policy meeting at Range 
and Division level  new encroachments have 
started  with an intention  that they will get the 
compensation  for encroached forest area. 
4.22 
PM 
17 Prl. 
Secretary, 
EFS&T. 
The compensation / rehabilitation  is an individual 
activity.  Where as VSS is a community activity 
and we are imposing  the  community  on the 
individu
als.  As per the data about 46,000 families  
have voluntarily  given encroached lands to the 
VSS  under JFM.  A survey will be done to assess 
the  quantum of  compensation  required under R 
&R policy  at individual level. 
4.25 
PM 
18 
CCF (CFM) 
During the preparation of Micro plans  the names 
of the encroachers who have  agreed to 
voluntarily  give  the Podu lands  to the VSS  and  
4.27 
PM 
Page  62
62
the kind of compensation package  they wish  to 
have  will be included.  It is to be discussed 
during this meeting as to  what kind of 
rehabilitation    packages  are   needed .The 
compensation  is  only to the VSS  members.  In 
case of large encroachments  the  rehabilitation 
will be in the form of group based   economic 
activities and  if the encroachments are  less  
individual income generating  activities will be 
taken up. 
19 
Surya Kumari, 
NGO, Centre 
for people’s 
forestry. 
In one  of the meetings  on R & R policy at 
Adilabad, the people  have expressed to 
voluntarily give encroached lands to the VSS.  
The people who are having land outside the 
forests should also be provided  compensation  in 
case  they handover the encroached land to the 
VSS.  The rehabilitation should be   as a group 
based activity   and  should clearly define what an 
individual gets  in a group.   
4.34 
PM 
20. Padmanabham, 
IFS, C.F. SF. 
Vijayawada. 
The  tribals  of Paderu  are ready  to give the  
encroached areas  to the VSS  voluntarily. As  
most of these areas    are hilly  regions  with  
sloping lands.  The condition  they have imposed  
is that, the  VSS  should raise  silver  oak  
plantations on these lands and they should be 
permitted to raise coffee  underneath  the silver 
oak. 
4.36 
PM 
21 Dhanunjaya 
Rao FRO. 
Vizag. 
In some of the VSS  due to encroachment by two 
or three families, the CFM  is not implemented.  
The VSS members  are  complaining  against this  
and  requesting   not to suffer  entire  village for 
the sake of 2/ 3 encroachers.  They have requested 
for  providing rehabilitation  package to these 
people , so that CFM can be implemented.  Due to 
4.39 
PM 
Page  63
63
R
&R Policy  meetings   some of the persons  
who have abandoned  old Podu areas  are now 
claiming the same  for compensation.  The 
rehabilitation should only be provided  to  the  
persons  who are in possession  of  Podu areas as 
on date.   
22 
Sowmitri, NGO 
In some of the Range level meetings on R &R 
policy  the  members have expressed that if they 
give the Podu areas to the VSS, they have live 
like  labour  as their forefathers.   In Paderu about 
2,406  families  are  involved in Podu cultivation 
and  they  are not willing  to  give these areas to 
the VSS.  Hence  do not evict  them in the name 
of CFM. 
4.45 
23 
CCF(CFM) 
As per the   G.O. , the CFM  is not for eviction 
and  none of the  members  will be forced  for any 
eviction.   
4.50 
PM 
24 
C.F. Vizag. 
In some VSS , due to encroachment  by two or 
three  persons, the micro plans are not prepared.   
Under R & R policy  these persons are to be  
provided  individual rehabilitation  packages.  But  
in forestry sector, the individual benefits/ 
packages  will create problems. 
4.52. 
25. 
DFO. Adilabad 
In Adilabad division,  about 56,000 ha of forest 
area is under encroached in different VSS.  The 
Micro plans are not prepared  for the VSS  having 
encroachments, the NGOs and the VSS members 
are requesting to write micro-plans  by not 
considering the encroachers as VSS members. 
4.54 
PM. 
26 Sri 
R.G.Kalaghatgi, 
The Forest Department  does not have much 
experience in  rehabilitation  schemes.  Therefore  
4.57 
PM 
Page  64
64
IFS. C.F.(MIS). 
the R & R Policy implementation under CFM  
may be given to ITDA.   The   meaning of term  
eviction  is not clear.   If a person  grows silver 
oak in Podu areas,  of Paderu division  and  by  
resolution  of VSS, GB  if  the entire usufructs  
are given to  him, is it also called a eviction?.  A 
committee has to be set up whether any eviction 
is involved / done   and the issue of  some of the 
persons having lands  outside the R.F. is also to 
be  discussed. 
27. M. 
Bullaiah, 
IFS .C.F. 
Adilabad. 
In Adilabad district, 96,000 ha of forest area is 
under encroachments.   In the joint survey  there 
is much pressure to  include the encroachments as  
pre 1980.   The VSS  members  in most of the 
meetings on explaining them  the  quantum and 
value of usufructs, they  inspite of understanding 
the same  are asking for  their livelihood for that  
day.  All the VSS  during the  meetings are 
requesting for starting   CFM works.  Therefore 
pending rehabilitation we can start CFM works.  
There is also a danger of fresh encroachments if 
compensation is paid to encroachers and we may 
lose some more forest areas.   
5.02 
PM 
28 Sri 
R.G. 
Kalaghatgi, IFS 
C.F.(MIS) 
Since it is decided to revise R & R policy, the 
World Bank may now agree to take up works / 
preparation of micro plans in VSS having 
encroachments.    Necessary proposals in this 
regard may be made. 
5.07 
PM 
Remarks by Panel Members: 
 
Sri Vittal Rajan,   NGO, has opined that the encroachments should be considered as pre 
Page  65
65
1980, 1980   and after 2000.  I appreciate the several assurances given by the Forest 
Department that there will be no forcible eviction and   only   those coming voluntarily will 
be considered.  The CFM is important imaginative step   for helping tribals and to correct 
mistakes done by the Britishers.  The encroached areas included under JFM during 1980- 
2002 are to be looked case after case and a blanket package should not be made.  The 
officials are presently interested not only on the environment but also human equipment.   As 
per the report   of R & R consultation meeting held at Range/ Division meetings, it is seen 
that several have come forward to give Podu areas to the VSS provided they are rehabilitated.   
The CFM has to be protected and the people are to be taken in to confidence, the NGOs   
have to work in close liason with Forest Department. 
 
Smt. Urmila Pingle, NGO has clarified that a cluster/ federation involving all the VSS is 
to be formed to strengthen the VSS into an autonomous body.   Eviction should not be taken 
up. 
 
Sri Prem Chandra Reddy, IAS, Director, Tribal Welfare, opined that the assurance of the 
Forest Department that none of them will be evicted forcibly under C.F.M. is well 
appreciated.  Under JFM, the livelihood loss is found to be more and rehabilitation has to be 
done.   As per the discussions held, there will be no such loss of livelihood under CFM.  
Under rehabilitation both the individual as well as group based activities are to be taken up 
depending upon the circumstances and issues.  I welcome the proposals of giving the work of 
R
&
R. to ITDA or Tribal Welfare.  The levels of rehabilitation and adequacy are to be 
established so that it will be easy for the implementing agency.  At present most of the 
rehabilitations are land based schemes.   The VSS is a very large group consisting   200 to 
400 members, so participation may not be effective.    The VSS may be divided in to sub-
groups on some basis, so that participation levels may increase.   
 
The Prl. C.C.F. has concluded the consultation meetings on revision of R & R policy by 
expressing that   development of forests huge sustainable income should be made available to 
the VSS.   
Issues deliberated and recommendations:
 Issues that were deliberated during the stakeholders 
workshops held during preparation of A P Community Forest Management Project and the ones 
during April to August 2003 are detailed below. A number of issues, which were deliberated 
upon during the stakeholders’ workshops, and recommendations made.  Some of the important 
Page  66
66
issues relevant to R&R and Tribal Development discussed and recommendations made are given 
below:   
 
Issue: Shifting Cultivation and Encroachments:
 Regarding shifting cultivation, following 
issues emerged: 
 
a. Shifting cultivation is a major agricultural practice in the tribal 
belt of the State, especially in North Coastal districts and in 
Adilabad.  The practice has by now become more or less 
settled cultivation.   
b. Discouraging  through legal action has failed to stop the 
practice. 
c. Since it is an issue dealing with livelihood especially in tribal 
belt, not all the cultivators may be willing to relinquish such 
cultivations. At best they may relinquish part of land 
encroached. 
d. 
There are cases wherein those who have encroached 
forestlands also have their own private lands. 
e. In non-tribal areas, such encroachments have been made even 
by big and well to do farmers. 
f. Providing R& R package to those who have encroached 
forestlands may encourage those who have not encroached 
such lands earlier to resort to encroaching now. 
g. Providing R&R package to those having land outside the VSS 
areas in addition to encroached land in VSS area who 
relinquish lands in VSS areas and not taking up CFM activities 
in VSSs where those who have encroached forest lands do not 
relinquish encroachments due to livelihood needs will deprive 
such landless villagers while doubly benefiting landed people. 
This widens the gap between landed and the landless. 
 
Page  67
67
Recommendation: 
It was generally felt that the shifting cultivation and the encroachment into the forest for 
cultivation are not good practices and they needed to be discouraged.   While doing so, it is was 
felt that this is an issue dealing with the livelihood of the poor and therefore needs a holistic 
approach.  It was felt necessary to widen the livelihood base of these people through introducing 
various suitable alternate income-generating activities and upgrading their skills, including 
promotion of improved agricultural practices on private lands to restore the economic well being 
of the affected families. 
There are 5 types of families who are normally affected when dealing with encroachment into 
forest lands for cultivation.  The types of the families likely to be affected and relief measures 
suggested are:  
·
1.
Families with landholding outside project losing encroached land: 
·
Relief measure suggested :- Assistance to improve farming in landholding outside project 
area through irrigation, improved farm inputs, and other agriculture support  or the   affected 
families will be provided support, if opted, to take up income generation activities.  
2.  Families entirely dependent on encroached land 
·
Relief measure suggested:- Land for land (equal extent of land lost), where ever 
government revenue or ceiling surplus land is available and acceptable. Such families will be 
assisted to improve farming by providing farm inputs, and other agriculture support and 
access to agricultural credit or affected families can be provided support, if opted, to take up   
income generation activities 
3. Families having other sources of income 
·
Relief measures suggested:- Affected families will be provided  financial support to take up 
additional income generation activities 
4. Families losing housing 
·
Relief measures suggested:- Allow the salvage material to be carried to the new site. Provide 
alternate site or cash in lieu of it. Housing under weaker section housing scheme or a housing 
construction grant. Provide for transport for carrying household salvaged material. 
 
5. Families not willing to vacate encroached lands 
·
Exclude such lands from VSS limits. 
 
Issue: Capacity Building of the VSS Members, Forest Staff and NGOs. 
In all the workshops there was a general feeling that the capacity of the forest staff, VSS 
members and NGOs Should be improved for the proper and effective management of the VSS. 
Recommendation: 
Training programmes in raising medicinal plants, nurseries, estimating the potential of forest 
produce and marketing, grafting of other and other species, various silvicultural operations, soil 
and moisture conservation works, accounting procedures of the VSS, value addition and storage 
practices of the NTFP and medicinal plants etc., are to be organized to build up the capacities of 
the VSS members, forest staff and the NGOs.  In addition to the centralized training programs in 
the A.P. Forest academy at Dullapalli, training programs may be organized in the circles and the 
districts also. Exposure trips to other successful VSS both within the State and outside the state 
Page  68
68
may also being organized. Videotapes of the successful V. S. S. may be shown in other V. S. S. 
for inspiration. 
 
Issue: Landless VSS members resorting to head loading as a means of livelihood:
 It came 
out that landless members of VSSs resort to cutting dried firewood and faggot wood. Even some 
villagers of nearby villages also depend on such activity. This impacts on protection of forests 
and results in degradation of biodiversity and forest resources. 
 
Recommendation:
 It was decided that such families should be identified and special livelihood 
packages should be developed for their amelioration. If required institutional finance should be 
linked to make these schemes viable. 
Page  69
69
Annexure III 
Flow chart depicting the linkages in Planning, Implementation and Monitoring 
System of the Resettlement Action Plan (EAG is missing)
 
CF Monitoring
Project Director 
CF CFM 
Social Development 
Specialist 
PMU level
District 
CF 
DFO 
NGO/CO 
and 
WCV
FRO
Social 
development 
specialist/ 
District/Divisi
onal Forest 
Committees 
FSO 
BO
VSS 
Advisory 
Council 
PRI 
Other 
line 
Depts. 
VSS  level 
Legend
Reporting 
arrangement 
Linkage 
Page  70
70
Annex IV 
Grievance Redress Mechanism and Coordination 
arrangements
 
At Village level: 
a)  For each V.S.S. there is an Advisory Council comprising of the concerned Forest Section 
Officer, Forest Beat Officer or Assistant Beat Officer, the Panchayat Sarpanch, 
representative of the Village Tribal Development Agency in scheduled areas (to be 
nominated by the ITDA), the Village Administrative Officer, the NGO actively involved 
in assisting the V.S.S., and Village School Headmaster/Headmistress. 
b)  The Panchayat Sarpanch shall chair the advisory council meetings. If for any reason he / 
she is unable to attend the meeting the Forest Section Officer shall preside over. 
c)  Constitution of the advisory body shall be the responsibility of the Forest Range Officer. 
d)  Convening meetings of the Advisory Council shall be the responsibility of the Forest 
Section Officer. Advisory council meetings should be held to facilitate their timely input 
into micro-plan and annual plan preparation and evaluation and also to coordinate the 
activities of other departments at V.S.S. level. 
e)   The Advisory Council will review micro-plans and annual plans and advise the V.S.S. 
on strategies and available resources for implementing them. 
f) 
The advisory council shall meet as often as required.  
 
At District level: 
A
District Forestry Committee has the following;   
1. 
District Collector (Chairman)  
2. 
Project Director District Rural Development Agency (Member) 
3.  Project Officer Integrated Tribal Development Agency (Member) 
4. 
Representative of GCC at District level (Member) 
5.  District Tribal Welfare Officer (Member) 
6.  Executive Director Dist. S.C.S.C. Society (Member) 
7. 
Joint Director Agriculture (Member) 
8.  Joint Director Animal Husbandry (Member) 
9. 
All the Divisional Forest Officers in the district (Member) 
10. Three NGOs (including at least one Woman delegate) to be nominated by the AP NGOs 
Committee on CFM (Members) 
11. 5 V.S.S. members nominated by the district collector (at least 3 members shall be 
women) (Members) 
Head quarters Divisional Forest Officer will be the convener. The tenure of the nominated 
members shall be one year. 
The responsibilities of the District Forest Committee will be as follows; 
(a) The District Forestry Committee shall review implementation of Community Forest 
Management and provide direction to the Forest Department and other departments in the 
holistic development of villages and hamlets where VSS are operating and in adjacent 
villages and hamlets that may be affected by the implementation of CFM. 
(b) The committee shall also ensure that there are no duplication of efforts by the various 
departments. 
Page  71
71
(c)  The District Forest Committee shall convey any observations or concerns that require state-
level intervention to the State Level Forest Committee. 
(d)  The District Forestry Committee shall meet atleast once in three months. 
(e)  The District Forestry Committee shall have powers to remove any member of the Managing 
Committee from the Managing Committee who is convicted of Offence(s) under any of the 
Forest Acts and Rules there under and / or any other Offence punishable under any law, or to 
cancel recognition any Vana Samrakshana Samithi majority of whose members are 
convicted of having committed Offence(s) under any of the Forest Acts and Rules there 
under and / or convicted of any other Offence(s) punishable under any law. The District 
Forestry Committee shall have powers to cancel recognition to any V.S.S. which does not 
function effectively. The decision of the District Forest Committee shall be final. 
 
At the ITDA level 
At ITDA level, the committee will have the following constitution:  
1.  Project Officer ITDA (Chairman)    
2.  Two NGOs (atleast one shall be woman) Member (To be nominated by the C. F.)  
3.  Ten V.S.S. members (atleast four shall be women) Member (To be nominated by the 
C.F.) 
4.  GCC Representative ( Member) 
5.  Sub DFO/ DFO at ITDA headquarters (Member Convener) 
This committee is responsible for: 
 
a. 
Review the implementation of C.F.M activities 
b. Coordinate the activities of the various Government departments to ensure holistic 
development and avoid duplication of works. 
c. 
Resolve inter V.S.S. conflicts and conflicts between the V.S.S. and non V.S.S. issues. 
d.  The committee shall meet once in three months. 
At Forest Division level: 
1. Divisional Forest Officer (Chairman) 
2. One representatives each from Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Rural development (DRDA), 
Tribal Welfare, ITDA, Social Welfare, District S.C. Society, GCC, NEDCAP (Members) 
3. Three NGOs (Members) 
4. 5 VSS chairpersons, (atleast 3 women) (Members 
 
This committee is responsible for: 
a. 
This committee shall meet every month and monitor functioning of VSS; 
b. 
Implementation of  decisions taken in the District Forestry Committee and other meetings; 
c. 
Ensure coordination of all concerned departments and agencies for proper functioning of 
VSS. 
 
At State Level:  
The State level committee has the following constitution. It coordinates the Community 
Forest Management. 
1.  Prl. Secretary Environment, Forests, Science and Technology Department (Chairman) 
2.  Pr. Secretary Social Welfare or his nominee (Member) 
3.  Sec. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (Member) 
4.  Managing Director A.P.F.D.C. (Member) 
5. 
Commissioner Tribal Welfare (Member) 
Page  72
72
6.  Director Animal Husbandry Department (Member) 
7. 
Commissioner Agriculture Department (Member) 
8.  Managing Director G.C.C. (Member) 
9.  Nominee of Secretary Finance (Member) 
10. Director Women and Child Welfare ( Member) 
11. NGOs 2 Nos.  (nominated by the AP NGOs Committee on PFM) (Members) 
12. Representative of Ministry of Environment and Forests (GOI)(Member) 
13. Prl. Chief Conservator of Forests (Member Convener) 
 
Independent Advisory Group at state level: 
The independent advisory group will comprise five members to be nominated by Government of 
Andhra Pradesh. These members will be eminent persons from the fields of law, judiciary, social 
work, academics, forestry etc. Minimum of one member shall be from legal background and one 
from forestry background. The Project Director of the A.P. Community Forest Management will 
be its convener.  Tenure of the members of this advisory group will be two years from the date of 
nomination The Independent Advisory Group will be serviced by the Project Monitoring Unit of 
the A. P. Community Forest Management Project. 
Role and responsibilities of the Independent Advisory Group:  
1.  The Independent Advisory Group will examine complaints relating to Resettlement 
Action Plan that are received by it or brought to its notice and advice the Government of 
Andhra Pradesh and the Forest Department of Andhra Pradesh on remedial measures as 
necessary for redressal of any grievances. 
2.  The Independent Advisory Group will meet as frequently as required (atleast once in 3 
months), to advice the Government of Andhra Pradesh and the Forest Department of 
Andhra Pradesh on implementation of Resettlement Action Plan. .  
3.  It may undertake field visits to enquire into complaints relating to Resettlement Action 
Plan. 
It may refer the complaints received by it to District/Division level Forestry Committees 
specified in the Grievance redressal mechanism detailed in the Resettlement Action Plan 
prepared in accordance with the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy issued by the 
Government of Andhra Pradesh in G.O.Ms. No. 10 EFS&T (For III) Department Dt. 5.2.2002 as 
modified from time to time.
Page  73
73
Annex V: List of Monitoring indicators 
 
Indicators Frequency 
Method 
to 
follow  
Agency Responsible 
Process of RAP preparation 
1. SIA completed and RAPs 
prepared (No. of VSS) 
 
2. RAPs approved by DFO (No.) 
 
Quarterly 
 
Quarterly 
 
Reports from 
FSO and 
NGO/CO 
Reports from 
FSO and 
NGO/CO 
 
SDS and DFO 
 
SDS and DFO 
Physical
1.  Identifying encroached lands 
within VSS area. 
 
2.  No. of encroachers  identified 
 
3. Encroachers surrendering land 
(No) 
 
4. PAFs assisted by type of 
entitlements (No.) 
 
5. PAFs identified for IG Activities 
(No.) by type of IG 
 
6. PAFs receiving institutional 
credit (No) 
 
7. PAFs under Govt. schemes (by 
type) (No.)  
 
8. PAFs receiving rehabilitation 
grant (No) 
 
9. Assets (by type) if any acquired 
and compensated 
 
10.  PAFs Received Training (no.) 
 
11. PAFs establishing IG activities 
 
Annually 
 
Annually 
 
Monthly  
 
Monthly 
 
Monthly 
 
Monthly 
 
Monthly 
 
Monthly 
 
Monthly 
 
Quarterly 
 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO 
and NGO/CO 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO 
and NGO/CO 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO 
and NGO/CO  
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
SDS/DFO  
 
SDS/DFO 
 
SDS/DFO and 
External M&E 
agency ( to report on 
their visits)  
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
 
-do- 
Page  74
74
Financial (Rs.)
1. R&R assistance 
provided in terms of 
type of entitlement 
 
2. Rehabilitation 
grant for  IG activity 
 
3. Bank loans 
arranged   
Training expenses 
 
Monthly  
 
Monthly  
 
Quarterly 
 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO 
 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO 
 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO 
 
SDS/DFO and 
External M&E 
agency ( to report on 
their visit) 
 -do- 
 
-do- 
Other Indicators
Income of PAFs 
 
Process Indicators
:
No. of consultations 
 
No. of visits by  SD 
Specialist 
 
No. of meetings of 
Div. and Dist. Forest 
Committees  
 
a) Annual  
b)Middle of the 
RAP/project 
implementation 
c)end of the 
RAP/project 
implementation 
 
Monthly 
 
Monthly 
 
Annually 
 
a)Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO/
DFO and SD 
Unit in PMU  
b)Reports from 
external M&E 
agency 
 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO/
DFO 
Reports from 
VSS/FBO/FSO/
DFO 
Reports from 
SDS/DFO/PMU 
and External 
M&E agency 
 
VSS/FBO/FSO DFO 
and SD Unit in PMU, 
Eexternal M&E 
agency 
 
VSS/FBO/FSO/DFO 
 
VSS/FBO/FSO/DFO 
 
SDS/DFO/PMU and 
External M&E 
agency 
 
Page  75
75
Attachment -I 
 
Resettlement And Rehabilitation Policy For The Persons 
Affected Due To Community Forest Management In The State 
Of Andhra Pradesh: 
 
Page  76
76
Preamble
:
A
detailed Social and Environmental Assessment 
(SEA) study of the A P Community Forest Management Project, 
carried out in a sample of 20 VSS, in five districts included in the 
Project, revealed two types of possible adverse impacts on 
livelihoods of forest dependent villagers consequent to the 
proposed Project interventions. The first and the more important 
one is the impact on economic living of the people dependent on 
forestlands, proposed for   development under a Vana 
Samrakshana Samithi (VSS). This is a very important issue that 
needs to be addressed adequately. The second type   of impact is 
on those families depending on cutting forest growth and selling 
as head loads of fuel and small timber for livelihood. It was 
noticed that encroachments have been caused mostly by the 
landless poor in tribal tracts for eking their livelihood through 
cultivating dry agricultural crops on these encroached lands. Any 
recovery of such lands will have adverse impact on the livelihood 
of people dependent on such lands. This phenomenon is likely to 
occur in certain areas where Community Forest Management is to 
be implemented in the state of Andhra Pradesh. It is also likely 
that such an eventuality has already occurred in VSSs where 
forest treatment was undertaken over forest lands that were under 
the occupation by individual families for non forest use during 
implementation of Joint Forest Management that was undertaken 
as specified in G O Ms. No 212, 228 and. 173 before launching 
Community Forest Management as detailed in GO Ms. No. 13 
EFS&T (For III) Department Dt. 12.2.2002 issued by the 
Government of Andhra Pradesh.    
 
Therefore, there is a need for the state government to 
develop a policy and a plan to mitigate such adverse impacts on 
the forest dependent families and also any other families that 
would be affected due to project interventions. It is with this 
background that the present policy document has been prepared 
Page  77
77
spelling out over all approach, mitigation measures and support 
mechanism in dealing with adversely affected families. This policy 
document evolved in consultation with the potential affected 
persons and other project stakeholders. It  includes definition of 
different terms used in the text, objectives and principles of the 
proposed policy, entitlement framework for the affected families, 
institutional arrangement for policy implementation, monitoring 
and evaluation and grievance redressal mechanism.   The actual 
assessment of adverse impacts, identification of adversely 
affected families and the planning and implementation of 
mitigation measures for each of the area assigned to a VSS will 
be done by VSS community, and incorporated in Micro-plans. 
 
Definitions: 
 
Affected Families:
are
 
those whose livelihood will be affected or is affected due to loss of lands, 
houses, trees and crops from the forest areas due to CFM and JFM where these assets in their 
individual possession come under common use. These include any affected person, his or her 
spouse, minor children and other dependants who habitually reside as one family. All adult 
members in an affected family, as individuals, are eligible for support under this policy and head 
loader. 
Cut off Date for Identification of Affected Families:
The date of formation of VSS will be the cut 
off date for the identification of affected families eligible for support to restore their livelihood.  
Encroacher:
A
person who has been engaged in unauthorized (i.e., without any legal titles to the 
land) cultivation of land falling under a given VSS area. 
Squatter:
A
person who has   unauthorizedly constructed a house or other structure within a VSS  
area for  housing .and other purposes. 
Project Area:
is the forestland that has been handed over to VSS for protection and management. 
Below Poverty Line Family:
Families recognized as BPL by the GOAP records. 
Operational Holding:
Land under cultivation by a family, which includes both owned and 
encroached lands. 
Head loader
:
A
person who ekes out his / her livelihood by cutting firewood and small timber 
from forests and selling. 
 
Objectives of the Policy
:
The primary objective of this policy is to avoid or minimise   any 
adverse impact and hardship to the people dependent on forestlands within a VSS area as a result 
of CFM and JFM.   However, if such adverse impacts cannot be avoided, the policy aims at 
supporting them by providing alternate opportunities to enhance or at least restore their 
livelihood.
 There will be no forcible eviction of people from encroached lands nor any 
affected person will be left worse off.
 This policy also covers those VSSs where similar loss of 
livelihood had occurred during implementation of Joint Forest Management before launch of 
Community Forest Management.  
Page  78
78
Basic Principles.
 
The following principles will be adopted during the course of planning and 
mitigating the project adverse impacts: 
 
·
Census survey (social and economic) will be carried out to identify affected families 
within the demarcated area of the VSS. 
·
The affected families will be consulted during the process of design, planning, 
implementation and monitoring of mitigation measures. 
·
CFM does not envisage any physical displacement of any family. However, if  any family 
voluntarily gives up its present livelihood pattern in favor of the VSS, all such affected 
families will be assisted for smooth relocation through this policy.  
·
Although CFM does not envisage any acquisition of land and other assets, if any such 
eventuality arises, the assets required will be compensated at replacement value along 
with the resettlement assistance.  
·
Alternative livelihood packages will be provided to the affected families to offset their 
losses and help them improve, and restore, their economic well being. 
·
Adequate physical, financial and human resources will be made available to implement 
the resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) activities. 
 
Guidelines for Implementation. 
 
·
At VSS Level, the VSS Advisory Council will facilitate planning, implementation and 
monitoring of rehabilitation activities. 
·
Any voluntary surrender of land should be accompanied by consent letter from the 
respective persons surrendering such land 
·
Such consent letters will be certified by the VAC.  
·
Such families will be provided with alternate economic opportunities to help offset their 
losses and restore their livelihood. 
·
In cases where the encroachers have sizeable operational holdings, outside the forest area, 
and if they are willing to surrender the encroached forest land, the approach will be to 
help them increase their farm earnings by providing access to improved farm inputs and 
focused agricultural extension. They will also have option to support for income 
generating activities.  
·
In respect of VSSs where loss of livelihood had occurred during implementation of Joint 
Forest Management, assistance will be provided for taking up group-based income 
generation activities benefiting all the affected families. 
·
Where people have constructed houses on the encroached land in the VSS area, they will 
be provided with house site and housing as well under the housing scheme for the poor of 
the state government. In case if such housing scheme is not available, each family 
displaced will be eligible to get a free house site and a house construction assistance of 
Rs. 25,000/-. In case of more than 20 families need to be relocated, a new housing site 
will be developed with all necessary infrastructure and civic amenities including drinking 
water, internal roads, approach road, drains and community hall. 
 
Those, who will be provided with alternate income generating activities, will be supported with 
Page  79
79
the following services:  
 
·
Skill training for income generating activities. (IGAs) 
·
Financial assistance  (up to a maximum of Rs 25,000) to take up IGA. 
·
Support to access bank loan using the financial assistance. 
·
Support from the District Industries Centre, Khadi and Village Industries Commission., 
and other  government schemes for the economic, welfare.  
 
Categories of affected families
.
Following broad categories of affected families are identified: 
·
Affected families with land holding outside VSS  area; 
·
Affected families totally dependent on encroached lands within VSS area for their 
livelihood; 
·
People losing their house structures in the VSS area; 
·
Head loaders and other forest produce collectors whose livelihood will beaffected. 
 
Category of affected families 
Mitigation measures (options for rehabilitation) 
Families with landholding 
outside VSS area losing 
encroached land (for BPL 
families) 
Assistance to improve farming in landholding outside 
project area through improved farm inputs, and other 
agriculture support or 
Affected families will be provided support, if opted, to 
take up income generation activities.  
Families entirely dependent 
on encroached land 
Land for land (equivalent in extent of land surrendered 
voluntarily), where ever government revenue or ceiling 
surplus land is available and acceptable. Such families 
will be assisted to improve farming by providing farm 
inputs, and other agriculture support and access to 
agricultural credit or                   
Affected families will be provided support, if opted, to 
take up income generation activities 
Page  80
80
Families losing housing  
Allow the salvage material to be carried to the new site 
Provide alternate site or cash in lieu of it 
Housing under weaker section housing scheme or a 
housing construction grant. 
Transport for carrying household salvaged material. 
Head loaders 
Affected families will be provided support, to take up 
income generation activities 
Note: The above mentioned mitigation measures will be provided on individual family 
basis.These families may however, on their own accord and depending upon the scheme chosen 
by them and its viability, decide to organize themselves into groups. In such cases entitlement 
will be made available to all the individual families of the group. Financial limits of entitlement 
in such cases will be sum of all entitlements of all the individual families of the group. 
 
Consultations:
 
For planning and implementation of rehabilitation activities, the following 
stakeholders need to be consulted (individually as well as collectively) 
·
Members of the affected families 
·
Other VSS members
 
·
Gram Panchayat
 
·
Land revenue officials
 
·
Forest department officials 
·
ITDA Officials in tribal areas 
·
DRDA Officials in non tribal areas
 
·
NGOs/community organizers 
 
The content of consultation should highlight the CFM objectives and proposed 
interventions and their likely impact on the livelihood of the people.  However, the issues to be 
discussed will include, inter alia. 
·
Benefits from the CFM interventions. 
·
Extent of encroached forest lands  
·
Alternate livelihood in the event of voluntary surrender of present livelihood pattern  
·
Support to take up alternate livelihood. 
·
Relocation of families losing house structures within the limit of project area 
·
Support available for head loaders to give up this activity. 
 
Institutional Support 
·
Planning, implementation and monitoring will be done by the Forest Department. 
Identification of Affected families will be done in association with the concerned 
NGOs/COs and endorsed by VSS 
·
At the State level, the responsibility of monitoring the planning and implementation of 
the rehabilitation programs of affected families will be with the Social Unit with in the 
Project Management Unit. The head of this Unit will be a Social Development specialist 
of the rank of Deputy Conservator of Forests /Assistant Conservator of Forests. This unit 
will coordinate with the Divisional Forest Officers (DFO) and the line departments to 
ensure smooth implementation of rehabilitation component of the project.  
Page  81
81
·
At the forest divisional level, the concerned DFO will coordinate the rehabilitation 
activities. For concerted efforts, a Sub DFO / Forest Range Officer / Deputy Forest Range 
Officer will be designated to look after R &R activities and other social aspects of the 
Project in the district.  He will also provide guidance to the VSS Advisory Council 
(VAC) 
·
At the VSS level, where planning and implementation is the responsibility of the 
concerned VSS, there shall be an Advisory Council comprising of the concerned Forest 
Section Officer, Forest Beat Officer or Forest Assistant Beat Officer, the Panchayat 
Sarpanch, nominee of ITDA, the Village Secretary, the NGO actively involved in 
assisting the V.S.S., and Village School Headmaster/Headmistress.  The Panchayat 
Sarpanch shall chair the advisory council meetings. If for any reason he / she is unable to 
attend the meeting the Forest Section Officer shall preside over. This council will also 
help in assessing the availability of government land for families opting for land.  
 
Role of NGOs/community organizers:
 
Wherever suitable NGOs are available, they will be 
involved in planning, implementing and monitoring of the process of identification of Affected 
families and providing mitigation measures to them if they voluntarily surrender their present 
livelihood pattern.    
 
Grievance Redressal Mechanism:
 
Issues related to R&R activities will   be addressed at 
different levels of grievance redressal mechanism  (at VSS Forest Section, ITDA/DFO and 
District levels.)   At VSS level, its Management Committee and Village Advisory Council will 
help resolve any grievances of affected families.  At the Forest Section level, grievances will be 
addressed by the Forest Section Officers.  Forest Committees (with representations from VSS, 
Panchayat Raj Institutions, NGOs and concerned line departments) already working at the levels 
of Integrated Tribal Development Agency /  Forest Division and the District, will also help 
resolve issues which are not satisfactorily resolved at the VSS  and Forest Section levels. There 
will be a state level Independent Advisory Group consisting of eminent people in the areas of 
law and justice, social work, rural development and forestry to look into grievances arising out of 
implementation of any plan drawn up on the basis of this policy and advise the Forest 
Department of Andhra Pradesh on suitable ameliorative measures. 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation:
 
There will be both internal and external monitoring.  The internal 
monitoring of both physical and financial aspects will be done by the DFO at the divisional level.  
At the VSS level, it will be carried out by the VSS with assistance from NGO/Community 
Organizer and VSS Advisory Council. An external agency will be engaged to undertake 
periodical monitoring and evaluation of the R&R activities. 
 
Approval of Plans for R &R activities:
 
Plans for resettlement and economic rehabilitation will 
be prepared by VSS facilitated by VSS Advisory Council and NGO/ Community Organizer.  
These plans will be an integral part of Micro-Plans to be prepared at the VSS level.  The Sub 
DFO/FRO designated for R&R activities and approved by DFO will review these Plans.  The 
social unit in the O/o Prl.CCF (PMU) at state level will monitor the preparation, review and 
approval of the VSS level plans. 
 
Page  82
82
Budget:
 
At the project level, the cost of planning and implementation of rehabilitation activities 
will be part of the overall budget of the project.  At VSS level, the cost of rehabilitation activities 
will constitute an integral component of the micro plan.  
Page  83
83
Attachment 2 
 
Terms of Reference for Independent Advisory Group for advising on Re-settlement Action 
Plan to be implemented by A.P. Forest Department of the Government of Andhra Pradesh. 
 
*****
Background:
 Consequent to issue of the National Forest Policy of 1988 and the Government of 
India guidelines in 1990 for promoting participation of local communities in protection and 
management of forests, the Government of Andhra Pradesh formulated guidelines for Joint 
Forest Management in the state of Andhra Pradesh and has been implementing the same since 
1992. With the experience gained, the Government of Andhra Pradesh, duly refining the 
programme further, has embarked upon implementation of Community Forest Management.  
Government of Andhra Pradesh has issued orders enabling such transformation through G.O. 
Ms. No. 13 EFS&T (For III) Department Dt. 12.2.2002. Joint Forest Management and 
Community Forest Management essentially envisage participation of local forest dependent 
communities in protection and management of the forests. For this purpose, these communities 
are organized as Vana Samrakshana Samithies (VSS).   
 
Joint Forest Management and Community Forest Management are practiced in the 
Forests owned by the Government of Andhra Pradesh through its Forest Department. Though the 
forests in question are state owned, due to growth in population and consequent pressure on land 
for agriculture there have been instances where certain people have occupied certain portions of 
these forest lands for cultivating agricultural crops.  While this essentially is an act contrary to 
the forest laws, it has also an aspect dealing with the livelihoods of these families.   
 
A
detailed Social and Environmental Assessment (SEA) study of the A P Community 
Forest Management Project, carried out in a sample of 20 VSS, revealed that in certain forest 
areas that have been brought under Joint Forest Management and that will be brought under 
Community Forest Management certain families have illegally occupied forest lands. In the 
event of these families requiring to surrender lands and actually surrendering these encroached 
forestlands for enabling Joint Forest Management and Community Forest Management, such 
families will be given livelihood assistance. For this purpose the Government of Andhra Pradesh 
have formulated and issued a Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy statement in G.O.Ms. No. 
10 RFS&T (For III) Department Dt. 5.2.2002 and have prepared a Resettlement Action Plan. 
This Plan in its present form would cover APCFM Project sites on 14 districts of Andhra 
Pradesh. This plan would be suitably revised to cover the remaining districts of Andhra Pradesh 
and all the VSS in the state. This revision is expected to be completed by June 2003. 
 
During the course of negotiations for IDA credit for A P CFM Project discussions 
between the Government of India, the Government of Andhra Pradesh (India) and IDA , it was 
decided to evolve a suitable mechanism to monitor implementation of Resettlement Action Plan 
and suitably advise the Government of Andhra Pradesh and Forest Department on all matters 
associated with the implementation of the re-settlement action plan. It was also decided that to 
ensure this objective, there will be two tier monitoring and advisory mechanism. There will be 
monitoring body at forest division level and an advisory body at state level to deal with the 
issues pertaining to monitoring implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan (this plan will be 
Page  84
84
implemented after due revision as stated above). The details of configuration and terms of 
reference of these bodies are given below: 
 
Constitution of the Independent Advisory Group:
 
The independent advisory group will 
comprise five members to be nominated by Government of Andhra Pradesh.  These members 
will be eminent persons from the fields of law, judiciary, social work, academics, forestry etc. 
Minimum of one member shall be from legal background and one from forestry background. The 
Project Director of the A.P. Community Forest Management will be its convener..  Tenure of the 
members of this advisory group will be two years from the date of nomination The Independent 
Advisory Group will be serviced by the Project Monitoring Unit of the AP Community Forest 
Management Project. 
 
Role and responsibilities of the Independent Advisory Group:
 The Independent Advisory 
Group will examine complaints relating to Resettlement Action Plan that are received by it or 
brought to its notice and advice the Government of Andhra Pradesh and the Forest Department 
of Andhra Pradesh on remedial measures as necessary to be taken for redressal of any 
grievances. 
 
The Independent Advisory Group will meet as frequently as required (atleast once in 3 
months), to advice the Government of Andhra Pradesh and the Forest Department of Andhra 
Pradesh on implementation of Resettlement Action Plan. .  
 
It may undertake field visits to enquire into complaints relating to Resettlement Action 
Plan. 
 
It may refer the complaints received by it to District/Division level Forestry Committees 
specified in the Grievance redressal mechanism detailed in the Resettlement Action Plan 
prepared in accordance with the Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy issued by the 
Government of Andhra Pradesh in G.O.Ms. No. 10 EFS&T (For III) Department Dt. 5.2.2002 as 
modified from time to time. 
 
Remuneration:
 All travel expenses incurred by the members of the Independent Advisory 
Group relating to travel relating to the activities detailed above will be paid for by the 
Government of Andhra Pradesh and Forest Department of Andhra Pradesh. The members will be 
paid sitting fees of Rs. 1000 per day for the meetings of the group attended by them by the 
Government of Andhra Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh Forest Department. 
 
